WALTER: I want my fucking Zippo now ! Walter starts yanking at his hair .
ROSA: Walter , that is a behavior
WALTER: Fuck you !
ROSA: And you are making a choice . Her cell phone rings
WALTER: God !
KYM: Do n't you get it yet , Waldo ? She 's making a choice not to give you your lighter because you 'll torch the Self-Help library again .
WALTER: I 'm Walter . Kill anybody recently ? Run anybody over with a fucking car ?
ROSA: That them ?
KYM: Yes . Finally .
WALTER: You 're not letting her get behind the wheel are you ? Are you ?
ROSA: Walter , you are only responsible for yourself . This is all your stuff ?
KYM: You know you never gave me you cell number .
ROSA: It was a mistake . I 'm lucky I did n't get fired . We 've discussed this . Good luck .
KYM: Oh my god . Here you are . I thought you were going to abandon me in ehab . It 's 12 30 . You guys are half an hour late . I 've been standing here with these lunatics . You look so great . Paul offers his hand to Rosa .
PAUL: Hello . I 'm Paul Buchman .
ROSA: I 'm Rosa . We met last time you came up .
PAUL: Of course , of course .
KYM: Let 's go , let 's go . Where is everybody ?
CAROL: Hello Kym .
KYM: So where 's Rachel ? Carol , where 's Rachel ?
CAROL: Getting everything ready at the house .
PAUL: There is so much going on at the house I ca n't tell you . You know your sister 's doing all of it herself .
KYM: My sister is bending the environment to her will ? Really ?
PAUL: No wedding planners or anything like that . Just her and Sidney and a lot of their friends . She is so thrilled you 're here . Is that everything , sweetheart ?
KYM: Yah . Can we go ?
CAROL: Is there anyone you want to say goodbye to ?
KYM: God no .
PAUL: You were n't in a cell , Kym
KYM: AND groups groups GROUPS
PAUL: And nobody was crazy , nobody was in a rubber room
KYM: I was looking forward to a little privacy for once .
CAROL: The only extra person staying at the house is Emma , who 's actually een staying in your old room . But she can move , I guess .
KYM: Rachel and Emma . Oh , great . How elaxing .
CAROL: Nachtmare ?
PAUL: It 's a nightmare so bad it 's in German .
KYM: Rachel must be totally freaking out . Is she too tense ?
PAUL: She 's a wigwam !
KYM: Is she eating ? Or are all he latent food issues rearing thei heads ? Is she hoarding Snickers and Cool Whip under the bed like in high school ? She never did put that one to sleep .
PAUL: I do n't think that that 's a problem for her .
KYM: No offense , Dad , but you neve thought that was a problem for her . I 'm kidding . It 'll be great to see her . Foodies are the worst , though . They never get it together . There were six of them on my floor in the hospital and you could never get into the bathroom . They would cry at the chocolate pudding and one of
PAUL: You 'll see her and Andrew at the ehearsal dinner tonight .
KYM: Can we stop at the 7/11 please ? I feel nauseous . I need something to drink .
CAROL: I brought you a Diet Coke .
KYM: I prefer Pepsi from the fountain .
COUNTER GIRL: I saw you on COPS .
KYM: I 'll do it , Dad .
RACHEL: Kymmie !
EMMA: You ca n't smoke in here
KYM: Ow !
RACHEL: I have pins all over me . You look great !
KYM: I 'm fat . Rehab makes you fat . All the vending machines . Look at you , missy ! I 'd swear to god you were puking again !
RACHEL: Hah !
EMMA: Kym !
KYM: Emma ! No seriously , you 're so tiny it 's like you 're Asian . Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you 'll be able to watch me while he 's asleep and I wo n't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin .
RACHEL: Dad did not say `` blow dealers . ''
KYM: I told him I 'd just sleep in Ethan 's room .
RACHEL: You can always shoot up in the tree house .
EMMA: Kym , I 'm not remotely surprised you 're starting your drama already , however it 's Rachel 's wedding and this week it 's about her .
KYM: Emma , you still have your tiny core of rage ! What a relief .
EMMA: Psychology . Not psychiatry . You know the difference , right ?
KYM: You should prescribe something soothing for Emma . Like Vicodin .
RACHEL: I will have my PhD . in a year and a half . And psychologists do n't get prescription pads , right Kym ?
KYM: They do in Guam .
RACHEL: Would you please put that out ? Emma designed this dress and there 's forty-seven yards of it and I 'll go up like the Hindenburg .
KYM: Since when are you a designer , Emma ?
EMMA: A while .
RACHEL: She has this great little boutique in Greenwich . She says things like `` you need a fabulous jersey pant . ''
KYM: That 's so great . I think I heard that . Is n't this your fifth incarnation or something ? Were n't you an actress ? All the N.E.D . 's in the hospital were actresses
EMMA: N.E.D.s ?
RACHEL: Non-specified Eating Disorder .
KYM: they were constantly doing leg lifts under the sheets .
RACHEL: Angela Paylin is coming to the wedding .
KYM: I ate so much cookie dough and did so many whip-its with Angela Paylin .
RACHEL: I know . And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy . I spied on you .
KYM: Oh my god
EMMA: Elvis Stoyko the figure skater ?
RACHEL: In her fantasy , she was wearing he hair up and very serious , esponsible eyeglasses , because she was a world renowned judge at the Winter Olympics for Men 's Figure Skating . And Elvis Stoyko was skating in the finals to `` Could It Be Magic '' for the gold medal . And just when Barry Manilow is singing `` Now/ Now/ Now and hold on fast '' there 's this electric connection etween them and he stops in the middle of his triple lutzaxel
KYM: And he skates over to the judges table , all panting and sweaty , with his spangly Neil Diamond shirt open to the chest
RACHEL: There is silence as he stops in front of her , their eyes lock , and he reaches for her hand and Angela takes it !
KYM: To the roar of the crowd and the shock of the Olympic judges !
RACHEL: And he gets disqualified but he does n't care !
EMMA: Where 'd she get the skates from ?
KYM: I should call her right this second . Is she really coming ? Who are all these energetic young people decorating the house ?
EMMA: She 's got everyone she knows pulling elf duty .
KYM: What about me ? What am I doing ? Rachel and Emma exchange a look .
RACHEL: Well , I think you 'll be assisting on floral detail . I want everything all drippy and luxurious and Mom 's a little bit tasteful
KYM: Mom 's in charge of flowers ?
RACHEL: and I do n't want to upset her .
EMMA: And you 're such a diplomat .
KYM: I am . I 'm like Kofi Annan . In reha they said I was the maternal hub of my peer group . I was always the eferee for softball .
EMMA: It 's softball . Someone was chasing them .
KYM: Whatever . They have trust issues in the first place . I 'm going downstairs to find Olive and get some unconditional love . Kym swans out of the room .
PAUL: I 'm making hot dogs and hungabungas ! Who wants what ? !
RACHEL: It 's too hot !
EMMA: I do n't eat gluten , Paul !
PAUL: What do n't you eat ? !
EMMA: Gluten !
PAUL: Where 's Kym ?
KYM: Here .
RACHEL: Besides I 'm in my dress !
PAUL: Ooo ! Can I see ? !
KYM: Actually there 's a meeting I have to make . And I have to pee in a cup . And register as a general iohazard .
PAUL: I 'll drive you .
KYM: Just tell me which car I should take .
PAUL: Would you do me a favor , Kymmie ?
KYM: I have a license
PAUL: You would n't believe my insurance . And I 'm not that comfortable . Could we figure something else out ?
KYM: Ow !
NURSE: She needs to pee in a cup . Someone will be right with you .
KYM: Okay . I 'm trying to get to a meeting .
NURSE: The meetings are over in the othe uilding .
KYM: I know that .
NURSE: Someone will be right with you . Have a seat .
KYM: Piss !
ATTRACTIVE GUY: Only once . My dealer . I was really oke .
PAUL: Carol , she 's here !
KYM: Where did you think I was ?
PAUL: I made you a sandwich , sweetheart ! Meatloaf !
RACHEL: Kymberly !
SIDNEY: Oh . I thought you said Satan Claus .
KIERAN: I thought she said Panty Hose . O Panda Claws .
EMMA: Pandas are endangered .
RACHEL: I know . We 're having an endangered Panda fleeing for its life for the ice sculpture . Or impaling itself on some bamboo . Kym ! This is Sidney Williams , my betrothed . Sidney , meet my sister , Kym .
KYM: Oh my god . You 're black . Sorry I called him a dawg .
RACHEL: That 's fine .
SIDNEY: No biggie .
KYM: You do n't look like a record producer . You 're supposed to have a hapless lackey next to you with an umbrella .
SIDNEY: Usually I do , but Mom 's out simonizing my car . Funny , you do n't look like Lucifer 's Cupbearer .
KYM: I got a haircut . Kym gives Emma a look . Emma smiles sweetly .
RACHEL: And this is Best Man Kieran .
KYM: Hey .
KIERAN: Hi there .
KYM: Gee , thanks !
KIERAN: No , believe me , that was so lovely , LOVELY ! But in the program as you know and we just heard earlier today in fact
KYM: It is kind of lurid , is n't it ? The est man and the maid of honor furtively slipping off to the coal in to have it off while the rest of the wedding party labors away at preparations for the big event .
KIERAN: I thoughtis n't Emma going to be playing that role ?
KYM: What ?
KIERAN: `` Maid of Honor '' ?
KYM: Oh .
KIERAN: I think I heard that was the plan .
RACHEL: Is n't the lilac fabulous ? You look like a freesia .
KYM: I love the grey .
EMMA: We 're all wearing lilac .
KYM: Look at this . I love this . It 's like a cloud .
EMMA: It 's good to have a principle . Kym ignores her .
RACHEL: You wore a lilac sweater with a cat face on it on the cover of Seventeen Magazine when I was at Fat Camp .
KYM: Sure , but I got paid for that and I was on horse tranquilizers . So why are n't I the Maid of Honor ? Why is Emma the Maid of Honor ?
RACHEL: Because .
KYM: What does that mean ?
RACHEL: I was n't entirely sure when you were coming or even if you 'd make it .
KYM: Bullshit . It 's a sari . You take a olt of cloth and wrap it around you . Jesus Christ I 've been home one day and I ca n't get a straight answer out of anybody .
RACHEL: What are you talking about ?
KYM: I 'm talking about Dad offering me food every ten seconds
RACHEL: Dad offers Irish Hunger Strikers food every ten seconds .
KYM: No . He has to know where I am and what I 'm doing all the time because he has never resolved his own trust issues .
EMMA: That 's odd .
KYM: Shut up .
EMMA: Blow me .
RACHEL: Oh , leave Dad alone .
KYM: I 'd love to but he wo n't let me . I feel him watching me all the time . And Carol and you guys too .
EMMA: I know I have nothing better to think about .
KYM: Everybody 's looking at me like I 'm the visiting sociopath . What are you people waiting for me to do ? Burn the house down ? They both look at her .
RACHEL: Stop ! You 're like a harpy . Is being my `` Maid of Honor '' this important to you ? I did n't think you gave a shit .
KYM: How could you fucking say that to me ?
RACHEL: Jesus . Emma !
EMMA: What ?
RACHEL: Emma , would you be horribly offended and hurt if I asked you to step down as `` Maid of Honor ? ''
EMMA: Yes .
KYM: Now Emma 's got another reason to hate me . Like she needed one .
EMMA: Is it what you want ?
RACHEL: Not really .
EMMA: Fine . The crown is yours , First Runner Up .
KYM: Thank you , Emma . No , thank you .
EMMA: It 's not about you .
KYM: It 's about sisterhood .
EMMA: Hooray for sisterhood .
KYM: Sisterhood conquers all .
RACHEL: And bludgeons all and pillages all and leaves all for dead .
KYM: So the gray is not an option ?
KYM: I do n't know anybody at what 's obviously the loser end of the table . Can I have your Chana Masala ?
RACHEL: You 've known most of those people since the eighth grade . You always pretend you do n't know people .
EMMA: Is it because you owe them money ?
KYM: Where 's Mom ? Where 's our mother ? How could she not be here already ? I have n't even seen her since I 've een home .
SIDNEY: She called a few times . She 's `` running a little late but should e here soon . ''
EMMA: Kieran would you like some more Saag Paneer ?
KIERAN: No thanks . Is there any krill ?
KYM: I ca n't believe Mom would be late for my release back into the wild .
EMMA: And here I was thinking tonight was about Rachel !
SIDNEY: Rach , I forgot to tell you , Carol got the helium tanks .
KYM: The words `` Carol '' and `` helium '' somehow
RACHEL: Are n't there some rules about helium tanks ?
KYM: She would n't have any idea what to do with a helium tank .
SIDNEY: Only on public property . I think .
KIERAN: Huge liability .
KYM: You 're a lawyer ?
KIERAN: Was . For about five minutes .
KYM: Say something legal .
KIERAN: Tort .
KYM: So what do you do now ?
KIERAN: I help Sidney out with the business side of his stuff .
KYM: Sweet .
RACHEL: Here 's Mom .
ABBY: Hello , darling .
ABBY: Kym ! Did you get my note ?
KYM: I 'm fat . Rehab makes you fat .
ABBY: Nonsense . You girls .
ANDREW: Hiya Kym . You look great ! Hey Rachel !
RACHEL: Mom , where have you been ? Is everything okay ?
KYM: Wow . We were wondering if you got the dates scrambled .
ABBY: Yes , everything is absolutely fine now .
KYM: Thank god . What a relief ! Now the party can really get started .
ABBY: Darling , can you smoke that in here ?
KYM: It 's a private party , Mom . How 's grandma ? Still surly and irascible ?
ABBY: Oh , you know how she is . She sends her love .
KYM: Great . Same .
ABBY: Honey , you should really put that out . It 's not right . You know that .
KYM: Fine .
KIERAN: I 've known Sidney most of my life . He personifies many of life 's grandest cliches , even as he eathes fresh life into most of them . He has never , ever `` ceased to amaze me , '' and only in the best of ways . The magnitude of his artistry and his business acumen are matters of public record and delight . He 's een a great friend `` through thick and thin , '' and sometimes it 's gotten very , very thin but he `` stood by me '' at all times , so it is my privilege and honor to stand y him on this profound occasion
RACHEL: You 're paying for that , Emma .
EMMA: Of course . I 'd like to make a toast to the happy couple because I want to come visit them in Hawaii .
SIDNEY: Humuu-humuu Nukku-nukuu
KIERAN: A-Pu-Aa-Aa .
KYM: You 're moving to Hawaii ?
RACHEL: Sidney 's recording studio is there . Kym , stung , exhales a plume of smoke .
EMMA: I 've known the bride her entire life . Not biblically , except fo that one time we french kissed at Evan Yassky 's party in the ninth grade .
SIDNEY: Film ! I want film ! Whoops and hollers .
EMMA: Commence embarrassing story .
RACHEL: That was n't it ?
EMMA: Rach , do you remember the time I was teaching you to drive in the Wagoneer and you sideswiped that taxi driver and knocked off his side mirror ?
RACHEL: I have no memory of that whatsoever .
EMMA: Do you remember trying to outrun him and leading him on a high speed chase across 96th street ?
RACHEL: Got ta say no .
EMMA: Well I would like to share with everyone that Miss Rachel-before she got her license or even had any idea how to drive- out maneuvered an irate , screaming cab drive across 96th street to the East iver , handily avoiding two EMT guys loading an old lady on a gurney , while at the same time , applying Cocofudge Lip Gloss in the earview mirror .
KYM: Was that the guy with the peroxide hair ?
EMMA: Anyway , when the taxi drive finally caught up with us , Rachel talked him down from his Middle Eastern fury in pretend Farsi , and ended up using his radio thing to call his dispatcher and recommend this guy for a commendation .
RACHEL: Mahamoud ! Such a nice man .
EMMA: We were driving so fast ! It was one of the more exhilarating moments in my lifesadlybut I knew that Miss Rachel would make it okay . So here 's to you , my dear , dea friend . A woman who can drive fast , pick up a paramedic , make up languages and get you home in one piece . Sidney , you are a lucky astard .
SIDNEY: Hear hear .
RACHEL: Where ? Where ?
KYM: Relax , it 's seltzer . Low giggles .
KYM: I 'm exhausted . Is there any watermelon ?
CAROL: Let me see .
RACHEL: Nice apology .
KYM: What ?
RACHEL: Nice apology .
KYM: I was toasting you and I was making amends . It 's one of the Steps . It 's important .
RACHEL: I know what the Steps are .
RACHEL: I learned them in school , and I 've visited you in various facilities , Kym .
KYM: Oh , god . Dad ?
RACHEL: Amends . Noun . Often followed by 'for ' . Offset a disability o frustration by development in another direction . Rachel blinks at her sister .
KYM: Yes ?
RACHEL: You 've never said anything to me , that 's remotely apologetic . Yet , all of a sudden , at my wedding dinner , in front of everybody , you decide to grace us all with you development ?
KYM: Christ . I just got here . Carol hands Kym a slice of watermelon .
CAROL: Here . Anybody else ?
RACHEL: `` Hey everybody ! And guests ! Just in case you might be thinking about something else for five minutes , like , I do n't know , my sister 's wedding they just cut me loose !
KYM: You 're so cynical . Dad , since when has she been this cynical ?
PAUL: She 's making an effort , Rachel .
RACHEL: An effort . That 's what it was ? Because I think she presumes that since everything has always evolved around her disease , everything else is going to revolve around her recovery . That 's what I think .
PAUL: Rachel . She just got home .
RACHEL: Again .
KYM: I had no idea you were so angry , doctor .
RACHEL: I 'm not .
PAUL: Kymmie , your sister 's got a lot on her plate . She 's uptight about
RACHEL: I 'm not uptight , Dad .
PAUL: She 's meeting Sidney 's folks fo the first time , there 's menus , there 's all that live music , you 're home , there 's a thousand things to worry about .
CAROL: Absolutely , a wedding will take it ight out of you , boy .
PAUL: Yeah , it would be so lovely if we could all just
KYM: You people need to purge . You people really should go to Nar-Anon or something . I mean it .
CAROL: Oh my lord . Kym , we have gone through Nar-Anon , baby . You know that .
RACHEL: You people ? You mean the people in this room ? Your family ?
KYM: All of you people living in this little world of judgement and paranoia and mistrust . I can feel it every second . At the slightest sign of ingratitude or absence of atonement it 's like the freaking Salem Witch Trials around here . I might as well be
PAUL: Do n't even start
CAROL: Nobody can make you feel any way unless you let them , Kym .
KYM: Thank you Carol , for you inevitable pearl of wisdom , but you people are my family . You people make me feel like shit a hundred times a day . You try living unde Dad 's constant monitoring for five minutes and see how you like it .
PAUL: What constant monitoring ?
KYM: `` I 'll drive you ! '' `` Carol , she 's ack ! '' `` Do n't sleep here , sleep there . '' `` Here . Eat this . '' Dad , you 're obsessed .
RACHEL: Please . That 's hardly news . You may not know thissure you dothe only way to engage Dad in any meaningful communication is to start the conversation with you name . `` Have you heard from Kym ? How 's Kym ? '' It resuscitates him . It jars him into the moment . Like an alarm .
PAUL: That 's unfair , Rachel . And completely untrue .
RACHEL: And she 's even worse ! `` Dad , you 're never going to believe this , but I lost the car again . '' `` Dad , you 're never going to believe this , but that check you sent me never showed up and my landlord hates me . '' `` Dad , can somebody meet me downstairs with cab fare and you 're neve going to believe this but I need to go to the emergency room and my neighbor 's suing me and my checkbook got stolen ! ''
KYM: Gee , Rach , sounds like you have some paternal/sibling issues to work through .
RACHEL: Are you kidding ? The two of you are like a double helix of crises . In the language of psychology one could say you both suffer from acute boundary issues .
PAUL: Rachel ! It 's nice that you 're getting your Ph.D
RACHEL: Oh god
PAUL: but do n't be patronizing . It 's ugly . It does n't become you .
RACHEL: How come she gets to spout off about paternal issues , but god forbid I should even reference the `` boundary thing , '' even though I actually know what I 'm talking about ?
KYM: Hello ? By the way ? I 'm not in crisis . I have n't been in crisis for a year .
RACHEL: You just got out of rehab !
KYM: Why is this so difficult for you people to understand ? It 's like you 're not happy unless I 'm in some kind of desperate situation . You have no idea what to do with me unless I 'm desperate . God . Why am I the only one who 's willing to say this stuff ?
RACHEL: Oh , poor you . You 're so much more evolved in your suffering . You know what ? Your suffering is not the most important thing in the world to everybody !
KYM: What ?
PAUL: What ? ! !
RACHEL: I 'm pregnant .
EVERYBODY: Congratulations ! Oh my god ! Etc ! ! !
KYM: That is so unfair !
PAUL: When did you find out ?
SIDNEY: Roughly about the day before we decided to get married .
RACHEL: I can barely believe it myself !
RACHEL: We told her at dinner .
SIDNEY: She was so happy
KYM: Wait ! Stop ! You ca n't just drop that tectonic bit of information into a completely separate conversation , Rachel . You ca n't do that !
RACHEL: Kym , you 're going to have a niece !
SIDNEY: Or a nephew !
KYM: Oh , god . Of course I 'm happy fo you . But you ca n't tell me when we 're talking like this . It 's a total set-up !
RACHEL: I am so fucking exhausted .
KYM: Dad , will you tell her I 'm happy for her ?
RACHEL: I justI need to go to bed . Sidney ?
SIDNEY: Yeah , okay . Great idea . I 'm beat too .
KYM: You 're leaving ? In the middle of this conversation ?
RACHEL: Yes .
PAUL: Kymmie , she 's pregnant . She 's exhausted .
KYM: Of course . Fair enough . I 'm off to aid the medicine cabinet .
SIDNEY: She 's not serious ?
CAROL: Oh , Rachel darling , and Sidney , I could n't be happier .
SIDNEY: She was n't serious , was she ?
PAUL: Do either of you want anything ? A sandwich ? You must be hungry . There 's cold Saagwala and a little Aloo Gobi left over ?
RACHEL: No thanks , Dad . I really am pretty sleepy .
PAUL: You 're pretty everything !
CAROL: Holy cow . What a day . I think I 've aged . I mean it . ) Would you mind if I went to bed , darling ?
PAUL: Of course not . I 'll be up , Carol . I 'm just going to load the dishwasher .
CAROL: Let me help , it 'll be quicker .
PAUL: Do n't mess with the King .
CAROL: Okay , okay . Hands in the air , Carol leaves the room .
KIERAN: Wow . That 's it for me too , you guys . Good night everybody . Kieran lays a manly , buddy hug on Sidney .
SIDNEY: Thanks , my friend .
RACHEL: I 've never been so tired in my life .
PAUL: Yes , sweetheart ?
RACHEL: I hope it 's okay , I told Mom at dinner . About the baby .
PAUL: Of course , lamb chop . I 'm so happy ! I 'm going to be a grandpa !
RACHEL: I wish Ethan were here .
PAUL: I know , sweetheart . Me too .
KYM: That was such a set-up .
KIERAN: She probably did n't realize she was doing it .
KYM: Ha ! She 's such an operator . Now I 'm the bad guy again . Or still .
KIERAN: They 're lucky to have you .
KYM: Thank you ! Otherwise they 'd have to pay attention to their own suspicious lives . Nobody actually wants me to actually change , you know . What would they obsess about ? I 'm like a blessing .
KIERAN: No argument from me .
KYM: Dad had an actual `` Blueprint fo Rehabilitative Success '' at my last intervention . On graph paper . He goes all out with the response , my dad .
KIERAN: Not unlike this great nation in which we live .
KYM: Meanwhile an ex-heterosexual ex-boy friend of mine actually rang the door once and tells my mother , `` Kym is sitting in her apartment ? With the shades drawn ? Doing all this heroin and cocaine ? And I think she 's going to , like , die ? '' And Mom smiles and says `` Thank you '' like he was speaking in Sanskrit .
KIERAN: You ca n't actually speak in Sanskrit .
KYM: Exactly ! I nodded out into the poached salmon at Dad 's wedding two years ago and he told Carol he thought it was jet lag .
KIERAN: I did that in soup once . It made such a mess .
RACHEL: Look how exquisite this is . I ca n't orrow this . What do you carry in here ? A vital organ ? A tiny spleen ?
ABBY: Is n't it divine ? It was grandma 's . She sends her love .
RACHEL: I love the color . It 's oyster .
ABBY: You must promise me you 'll stay healthy now , Rachel . You 'll eat properly and get a lot of rest ?
RACHEL: Yes , Mom .
ABBY: How are things going at the house ? How 's Sidney ?
RACHEL: Fine .
ABBY: And his friend ? What 's his name ?
RACHEL: Kieran .
ABBY: He seems to be a big hit . Is you sister behaving herself ?
RACHEL: I 'm not exactly sure what that means .
ABBY: Well , she needs a lot of acknowledgement .
RACHEL: You think ?
ABBY: Stop . It ca n't be easy . Everybody knowing her troubles .
RACHEL: Mom , she 's sold syndication rights to her troubles .
ABBY: Stop .
RACHEL: Mom , does it bother you at all , Carol doing so much wedding stuff ?
ABBY: Not at all , darling , I 'm thrilled to be providing the flowers . You know how much that means to me . They 're going to be exquisite !
RACHEL: Yes , I 'm sure , and that 's so great and so you , but you can do whateve else you want , you know . I 'd love it .
ABBY: Thank you , my sweetheart . I just know I 'd be one of those wedding mothers who goes completely insane about the hors d'oeuvres . Andrew says I should n't be allowed near a shrimp puff .
RACHEL: Huh .
ABBY: There are so many other people fo you to worry about .
RACHEL: You 're right .
ABBY: But this is going to be the most eautiful wedding ever . And I hope your sister has a wonderful time tooAnyway I 'm going to be a grandmother ! Hooray !
RACHEL: Hooray !
ABBY: I 'm so excited . I have always wanted to be a grandmother . Even when I was thirty . Here . This ring was grandma 's and she wanted you to have it .
RACHEL: Is she dead ?
ABBY: Rachel .
RACHEL: It 's beautiful . Thanks , Mom . I hope it 's a boy .
ABBY: As long as it 's healthy . Try the ing on . Rachel does .
KIERAN: Your hand is on the turf .
KYM: What turf ?
KIERAN: The turf . The table .
KYM: So ?
KIERAN: So we have to do it over now . It was your shot and you get to do it over .
KYM: What are you talking about ?
KIERAN: Do n't tell me you did n't know having one hand on the turf makes the play null .
KYM: Null . Maybe we should just play Pinball .
KIERAN: Sometimes playing next to each other is easier than playing together .
KYM: Who told you that ?
KIERAN: My mom . She runs a pre-school .
KYM: What 's Hawaii like ?
KIERAN: You 've never been ?
KYM: Uh uh .
KIERAN: It 's beautiful . I 've got a nice place . My horse lives there .
KYM: Most people say `` my girlfriend lives there '' or `` my wife lives there . ''
KIERAN: I live there and so does my horse . He 's very possessive . We 're working through it .
KYM: Have you had him a long time ?
KIERAN: Yes . I may be a degenerate dope fiend but I love my horse . I do n't have a wife or a girlfriend and I 've been clean almost seven years . You could just ask , you know . You sister does n't ask direct questions either . She 's incredibly cryptic .
KYM: That 's a shrink thing , not a genetic thing .
PAUL: Carol , they 're back !
KIERAN: I was just thinking Salad Nicoise !
RACHEL: Can we get back to what we were doing , please ?
PAUL: All right . Where were we ? Ah yesThe Rosenzwiegs . Can you please put the Rosenzwiegs somewhere far away from me ?
RACHEL: They 're your friends , Dad .
PAUL: They 're not my friends . I 've just known them my entire life .
SIDNEY: Just so you know , my mother expects to be carried in by liveried servants to the triumphant swirls of the harp and seated on a solid gold throne forged by nuns .
RACHEL: Really ? Because right now I have her shoveling kelp in the laundry oom . But I have it as a montage .
KYM: Where are you putting me ? In the stockade ?
PAUL: Kym , stop it . You 're at the family table .
KYM: Do n't put me with Michael and Sandy .
RACHEL: They 're not invited .
KYM: Sandy never called me back after I sent her an amends e-mail from Milestones . I hate it when people do n't meet you half way .
PAUL: The family table . With us .
EMMA: Oops . That 's nine . I thought you were having tables of eight ?
RACHEL: I am .
KYM: Where are you putting me ?
RACHEL: I was thinking of putting you with Cookie Puss and the Chicago cousins ecause they always get really drunk and need wrangling .
KYM: Can someone else do it ? I was planning on enjoying myself .
RACHEL: You 're the only one they 're afraid of .
KYM: Still ? God .
PAUL: We can move Grandma Rose and he companion . That 's actually a great idea .
KYM: That 's all I need . Another reason for Grandma Rose to hate me .
PAUL: She does n't hate you .
KYM: She 's still mad about that thing at the Rite Aid .
PAUL: Nonsense !
KYM: Whatever .
RACHEL: Dad , can I show you something in the kitchen ?
PAUL: Rachel , what is this behavior ?
RACHEL: I would just like to have a day please .
PAUL: Have all the days you want . Nobody is taking your day .
RACHEL: Then why are you defending her ?
PAUL: Defending her from what ? Darling , look , no one 's defending any ody
RACHEL: Why are you protecting her ?
PAUL: I do n't want her to feel like we do n't want her .
RACHEL: Sometimes I do n't want her . It 's my fucking wedding , do n't you get it ? I want my table to be perfect . Paul kisses her on the forehead .
PAUL: Stop it . She 's your sister .
SIDNEY: Paul ! Paul , listen , I 've been thinking about it . I did some preliminary sketches , I 'd love to show them to you
KIERAN: He 's not kidding .
SIDNEY: And I think if you move the salad owls to the upper tier you can get about 10 % more stuff in the dishwasher .
CAROL: Hee hee hee .
PAUL: Sidney , you 're a nice young man . You make a lot of money and the world is your oyster . But you do n't know shit about loading a dishwasher .
SIDNEY: Sir , with all due respect , the mantle has passed .
TIME CUT: Sidney has his sleeves up and starts to load .
KYM: What 's the time limit ?
CAROL: Two minutes .
SIDNEY: Are you comfortable with that , sir ? I could spot you thirty seconds .
PAUL: You young people should all go fuck yourselves .
KYM: Dad !
CAROL: Ha !
SIDNEY: You see Paul , I think your problem lies in lid placement .
PAUL: Rachel , you 're out of the will .
SIDNEY: Observe .
PAUL: Clean out this machine please , boy . So I can break out the whup-ass .
SIDNEY: You know one of the early signs of senile dementia is an obsessive need to organize .
PAUL: Rachel , go fetch me my dart gun .
SIDNEY: I find it touching but ultimately sad when the warriors of yesteryea are reluctant to lay down thei plastic containers from Zabar 's and etire gracefully .
PAUL: Kieran , how 's my time ?
KIERAN: You have twenty-five seconds .
PAUL: I need more dishes . You amateur !
SIDNEY: What ? No way !
PAUL: Somebody give me some dishes !
KYM: Mom is handling the flowers ?
RACHEL: Well , she 's growing them and choosing them - but they are being delivered by her people .
KYM: Got it . Wow . Nurturing and growing things from the soil . Textbook , ight ?
RACHEL: Kym . Can we talk about the candles for a minute ? Because
KYM: Yeah , exactly ! Candles and rice paper all lit up during the ceremony . It 's a way of honoring Ethan , Ethan 's spirit , you know ? It will look really nice too , mainly . Millions of little candles all over the place , and one huge ice paper candle - representing Ethan - glowing near the couple . That would be you and Sidney .
RACHEL: Oh my god , no . Do n't . Just do n't . That would kill Dad . And Mom . And me . And everybody . Please , Kym , please please please do n't do that .
KYM: Geez . It was an IDEA . Lighten up , okay ? They do that in Japan o India or someplace , okay ?
RACHEL: Just drop it , sweetie , okay ? Please ?
KYM: Oh my god - fine ! Done ! It was nothing , okay . It was just an idea .
KYM: Are you getting a manicure ?
STYLIST: You do n't remember me , do you ?
KYM: Nooooo..
STYLIST: Rick James ' limousine .
KYM: Oh . My . God .
STYLIST: Yeah .
KYM: I meant to come back . I swear . I even hadOh god , what was it ?
STYLIST: Peanut M & M 's and Carbona cleaning fluid .
KYM: God is punishing me .
STYLIST: No , he 's blessing me . It 's cool I talked him down .
KYM: So , how are ya ?
STYLIST: I 'm okay . You remember we were in the hospital together , right ?
KYM: We wereat Milestones ?
STYLIST: No . I did n't go to Milestones . I did n't have the coverage . We were on the same floor at Loeb House . That was before you went to Milestones .
KYM: Where did you go after that ?
STYLIST: My parents ' house . Unemployment . It 's all about the coverage , right ?
KYM: I know . It 's so weird .
STYLIST: Listen . Do you remember that exercise where we all had to write down experiences and pass them anonymously to another person ?
KYM: `` The Human Mirror Seeing With a Fresh Perspective '' Like Secret Santas of despair .
STYLIST: I got yours .
RACHEL'S STYLIST: Do you want a tissue ?
STYLIST: I found it so profoundly inspirational that you could be there for her during your own incredible ordeal . I thank God that you came in here today . I neve thought I 'd ever have the chance to thank you . It was your strength that gave me the courage to confront my own abuse and help me turn my life around .
KYM: Would you stop ?
RACHEL: Do n't touch me .
KYM: Do n't you think his perspective might be a little skewed ?
RACHEL: I never had anorexia . You sure as hell did n't watch over me while I was sleeping and WE DO N'T HAVE A
KYM: That we know of !
KYM: Ew ! Wait Rachel yanks open the car door , jumps in .
RACHEL: I 'm hurt !
RACHEL: I hate her .
PAUL: You do n't hate her .
RACHEL: Do n't tell me what I do n't hate . I hate , hate the lies . She lied in ehab .
PAUL: What do you mean she lied ?
RACHEL: She lied to the people who were working with her . Who were trying to help her . She lies to everybody .
PAUL: Where is she now ?
RACHEL: Where am I now , Dad ?
PAUL: Thank god . In here .
KYM: Thanks for abandoning me . I had to take a taxi !
RACHEL: Are you kidding me ?
KYM: Why would anything I said or did n't say at the hospital hurt you ? It was n't about you !
RACHEL: Why not ? Why was n't it about me ?
PAUL: Rachel
RACHEL: Dad , stop . Why not ? I was hopeful . I was on your side . I still am . Do you have any idea what that means ? Do you have any idea how lonely it was with everybody gone into you terrible world ? There was nothing left . Everybody was just empty . You think they remembered I was alive or needed anything during your life ? And after all that loneliness and Mom and Dad blaming each othe and worrying and death and divorce and that stupid hopefulness and Dad not even being able to listen to music , you were in the hospital , lying about us ! Instead of telling the truth about yourself !
KYM: God , Rachel
PAUL: Wait a minute . Wait a minute . What 's this all about ?
RACHEL: Apparently she has a whole history of sexual molestation .
CAROL: What ?
PAUL: Kym , what is your sister saying ? Did you say you were sexually molested ?
KYM: Oh Jesus Christ . Not by you ! It was a long time ago !
PAUL: Were you ?
KYM: No !
PAUL: Why in god 's name would you say something like that ?
KYM: It was anonymous ! It seemed like a good idea at the time .
RACHEL: Dad , look at me . I 'm right here . I 'm telling you that after Ethan died I wanted her to get better o just die
PAUL: And look ! She is better !
KYM: Nice , Rachel . Thank you .
RACHEL: And Dad , she was lying and she did n't give a shit about the rest of us . Recovery ca n't work if you lie . She knows that . I was worthless to her . We all meant nothing to her .
KYM: You 're not worthless . You 're my sister . I love you guys . I need you guys , but you do n't get to sit around for the rest of my life deciding what I 'm supposed to be like . You were n't there . You were n't inside my head when I was fucked up and your certainly not there now . You have n't got a clue what I feel .
RACHEL: Kym , you took Ethan for granted . You were high for his life . You were not present for his life . You were high . He was like a pet to you . You drove him off the bridge . And now he 's dead .
PAUL: It was an accident .
KYM: Yes ! I was stoned out of my mind ! Jesus Christ , who do I have to be now ? Mother Theresa ? Did I use up all the love I 'm allowed for this lifetime because I killed ou little brother ?
PAUL: No , it was an accident !
KYM: I 'm sorry ! I 'm sorry , okay ? I 'm sorry !
PAUL: It was an accident .
ABBY: Hello ?
PAUL: Hello Abby . It 's Paul .
ABBY: Hello Paul .
PAUL: Is Kym with you ?
ABBY: No . Why ? Did she go somewhere ?
PAUL: She left the house about an hou ago .
ABBY: To a meeting ?
PAUL: She and Rachel had an argument .
ABBY: Oh , dear . The night before he wedding ? What was it about ?
PAUL: Look , Abby , it does n't matter . She left the house . She took the car .
ABBY: What was the argument about ?
PAUL: I do n't know . They were both getting their hair done
ABBY: You do n't know ? Well what were they saying ?
PAUL: For god 's sake Abby ! I 'm trying to figure out where she went before I call the police !
ABBY: Well , last time you called the police looking for her she was upstairs , asleep in the guest room .
PAUL: She was n't asleep , she was unconscious ! And I 'm glad I called the police because it took twenty minutes to wake her up and at least something was being done !
ABBY: Paul , I 'm trying to help .
PAUL: You 're trying to dismiss everything !
ABBY: She 's not a criminal !
PAUL: You 're disregarding everything I 'm saying , and this failure to listen , failure to understand what is right in front of you is exactly why you will never be able
ABBY: Paul !
PAUL: To help her !
ABBY: Maybe that 's not what she needs all the time
PAUL: What ?
ABBY: I mean..I mean maybe she needs us
PAUL: Maybe she needs someone to be watchful and present and in he life !
ABBY: To trust her
PAUL: She could hurt herself ! She could e lying dead in a ditch somewhere !
ABBY: All right ! All right ! Stop it !
PAUL: If you hear anything , can I count on you to please call me ?
ABBY: Can you count on me ?
PAUL: Okay , then .
ABBY: Goodbye .
PAUL: Goodbye .
CAROL: She must feel awful .
KIERAN: Excuse me , but when you 're trying to get better there 's a lot of pressure in rehabs when someone is n't ready to take responsibility they create something , like an Uncle Stan , to take responsibility until they 're ready .
PAUL: Well , she 's always been creative .
CAROL: I just wish we knew where she was .
SIDNEY: Paul , Would you like me to go out and look for her ? Rachel takes Sidney 's hand .
CAROL: You 're getting married tomorrow . A hundred people will be here .
KIERAN: I 'll go . I'mI 'll go . Any idea where she might have gone ?
CAROL: It 's the caterer .
EMMA: I 'll take it .
KYM: Ahhh .
ABBY: You should call your father .
KYM: In a minute . I need a glass of water .
ABBY: I 've made some tea .
ABBY: Here darling . Sit down . You look upset .
KYM: When will Andrew be back ?
ABBY: Not too late . He 's at a dinner .
KYM: Yes .
ABBY: Good .
KYM: Dad was loading the dishwasher
ABBY: Mmm hmmm
KYM: And I handed him Ethan 's bowl with the trains on it by accident .
KYM: You knew . All of you knew . People told you . I was a junkie .
ABBY: You were sick .
KYM: You know what I was . It 's not like there were n't any clues . I stayed in my room for days . I passed out all the time . Where were you , Mom ! What were you thinking ? Why did you leave me ? Why did you leave me in charge of him ?
ABBY: You were n't supposed to kill him ! You were n't supposed to kill him !
KYM: Mom ?
ABBY: Get away !
PAUL: I never thought I 'd have two little girls . Two little girls unning around with their tummies sticking out in their diapers . They used to bite me on the nose , the two of them .
VALET: Um . Hi .
KYM: I 'm the Maid of Honor .
VALET: Cool .
PAUL: Kymmie ?
CAROL: Oh my lord
PAUL: Are you all right ? They meet at the circular driveway .
KYM: I hit Mom .
PAUL: Oh my god is she
KYM: Not with the car .
KYM: I have to get dressed .
PAUL: Look at you ! You need to get to a hospital !
KYM: Dad ! I 'm fine .
PAUL: You ca n't just vanish . You ca n't just leave . You have to call . You always have to call .
CAROL: Why do n't you go find your sister ? She did n't sleep last night waiting for you .
EMMA: Oh . My . God .
KIERAN: Holy shit . She just showed up . Yes . Thank you . Do you need a doctor ?
KYM: You sent out the cavalry ?
KIERAN: For your dad . Mostly for your dad .
KYM: I have to get ready . I have to get dressed .
KIERAN: Okay . I 'm so glad to see you .
RACHEL: Aaaah ! Fuck !
KYM: I hit Mom .
RACHEL: With the car ?
KYM: No . No .
RACHEL: You hit Mom ? You hit our mother ?
KYM: Okay .
RACHEL: I got it .
JUDGE CASTLE: We 're here on this beautiful day
KYM: Excuse me .
SIDNEY: I always just wanted to hear music , and when I met you I heard you . You are the most beautiful thing I 've ever heard . Thanks for marrying me .
SIDNEY: For you . And youahem
JUDGE CASTLE: On that note , and with the powe vested in me by the state of Connecticut and Neil Young , I now pronounce you husband and wife .
SIDNEY: Is this mocha ? Or chocolate ? He samples the frosting .
MRS. WILLIAMS: Baby Boy , let them take the picture .
SIDNEY: Okay , Mom .
RACHEL: Yeah , Baby Boy .
SIDNEY: Dear God , bless this family and let them always invite us for dinne ecause my new wife ca n't boil water or fry an egg . La Chaim .
EVERYONE: La Chaim .
RACHEL: Friends and family , family and friends ! I have an announcement to make ! I 'm the bride and I 'm knocked up ! Surprised whooping and hollering .
PAUL: Ooo . Look at me , I 'm dancing .
KYM: Fine . I had an accident .
ABBY: And , how are you , Bob ?
BOB: God , never better Isaac opened his practice !
DISTINGUISHED NEIGHBOR: If you 're in need of any legal services
KYM: SorryI 'm not sure
NEIGHBORHOOD GIRL: I can do a handstand !
KYM: That sucked .
KYM: Hi . Where 's Mom ?
RACHEL: Taking a break .
KYM: How can you take a break from you own daughter 's wedding ?
RACHEL: Mom does n't actually participate in things .
KYM: And anyway , she has n't even done anything all day .
RACHEL: I was thinking about getting her a cat . Cats are really annoying . At some point you have to deal with them , right ? Or they starve to death and piss on your sheets .
KYM: It 's so nice here . Suddenly Kieran sweeps into the room .
KIERAN: You can run but you ca n't hide !
RACHEL: Stop ! Stop you fiend !
KYM: Hello ?
RACHEL: Hello ?
ABBY: Here you are .
SIDNEY: Hello Abby . You 're lovely . And I 'm not looking up your skirt . Kieran is busting a gut not to laugh .
ABBY: I 've been looking for you all ove the place .
ANDREW: They 're bringing the car around .
ABBY: All right .
RACHEL: You 're leaving ?
ABBY: Darling , I 'm exhausted . I had such a marvelous time . Those dancers were so beautiful . But weddings are eally for young people .
RACHEL: You could make a little scene .
ABBY: And here I am making it . Andrew and I are going to Washington in the morning .
KYM: Why are you going to Washington ?
ABBY: It 's the mother of all fund raisers at American . I thought I mentioned it . We 're going to stay on about a week - there are lots of meetings . I thought since you two are going away soon and I 'm sure you do n't want any grown ups around checking up on youWill you still be here when I get back ? Kym does n't say anything .
RACHEL: What about our post-nuptial wedding gossip reconnaissance , Mom ?
ABBY: Well , can you come by early ?
RACHEL: Um
ABBY: Of course you do n't want to do that . It 's your wedding night . You do n't want to get up early . I have to get Andrew organized . He 's hopeless . And we 'll be back in a bit . It was such a lovely wedding , darling . She bends in for a kiss .
RACHEL: Wait ! I want my mother and my sister !
ABBY: Rachel
RACHEL: Yes . Of course .
ABBY: All right , then .
SIDNEY: Goodbye Abby .
ABBY: Good bye , Son-in-law .
SIDNEY: I saw your mother 's underwear .
KYM: I ca n't find my cigarettes .
PAUL: Kymmie . Speak of the devil . You emember Susanna Galeano .
KYM: Hi .
SUSANNA: Hi Kym .
PAUL: Susanna has a public relations firm and she just lost one of he assistants .
SUSANNA: Weddings . They 're an epidemic . You father gave me my start about a hundred years ago .
PAUL: No , no . Hardly . Well
SUSANNA: We could definitely use an extra ody right about now . Have you eve thought about Public Relations ?
KYM: The public is kind of afraid of me .
PAUL: The firm is opening an office right here in town , just in time for the holidays . You could stay right here .
SUSANNA: Have you ever thought about P.R . Kym ?
PAUL: Logistically it 's just a dream . You could stay in your old room . I could chauffeur you around . You would n't have to worry about rent .
KYM: Have you already talked to Carol about me staying here ?
PAUL: Of course . She 's fine about it . You could stay in your old room .
SUSANNA: Why do n't you give me a call on Monday , okay ?
PAUL: Suzy 's first rate . P.R . can be fascinating .
KYM: You always said it was stupid .
PAUL: I meant stupid . Do you want me to hold that for you ? You 've got no pockets .
KYM: I 've got it . Thanks , Dad . I 'll be ight back .
KYM: Oof . You scared me .
KIERAN: Making a break for it ?
KYM: Yeah . I have to go . I was coming to find you .
KIERAN: You do n't have to slip away without making any noise , you know ? I like noise .
KYM: I was coming to find you . My ride 's outside .
KIERAN: OkayIf you need anything
KYM: If I need to post bond ? Kieran hands Kym a folded piece of paper .
KIERAN: No . If you ever need anything .
KYM: Thank you , Kieran .
KIERAN: Maybe you 'll come visit me in Hawaii ?
KYM: That would be nice .
ROSA: Hi .
RACHEL: Hi .
KYM: Will you tell Dad ?
RACHEL: Me too .
KYM: Bye !
JAKE: Good evening , ladies and gentlemen . It 's a thrill to be standing here talking to you wonderful people . In fact , it 's a thrill to be standing ! I have n't seen so many people since my last fight at Madison Square Garden . After that fight , a eporter asked me , 'Jake , where do you go from here ? ' I said , 'To a hospital ! ' I fought one hundred and six professional fights and still none of them bums figured out how to fight me they kept hitting me in the head ! And that 's why I 'm here tonight 'When the fighter 's not engaged in his employment , his employment , although he was Champ and quite the age , he must go somewhere else to seek employment , seek employment . But a fighter 's life is not a bowl of cherries , still I 'd rather have an egg than a fist upon my face That 's Entertainment ! '
JOEY: You did n't have to come to Cleveland to get beat by a `` moulan yan , '' Jake !
TONY: He 's got you , Jake ! You 're outpointed ! You 're coming up fo the tenth . You got ta knock him out !
JOEY: A grand apiece ! We got a grand apiece on this , Jake ! A fucking grand !
REFEREE: One , two , three , four
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and Gentlemen , the winner , under the rules of the Cleveland Boxing Commission , after ten ounds , by a decision Jimmy Reeves .
JOEY: Do n't get out of the ring . You won the fight let him go out first .
PANS: take the cigarettes out , sell 'em , make some cash .
SALVY: Hey but Joey , you 're thinking nickels and dimes . The money 's with your brother .
JOEY: What do you want from my life , Salvy ? He 's my brother .
SALVY: He ai n't doin ' the right thing . He 's makin ' beans compared to what he should be makin ' . Ca n't you make him understand that ?
JOEY: Hey , leave the kids alone .
SALVY: Get lost . Hey kids , `` A cop is a rat . '' Remember that , `` A rat . ''
JOEY: Hey Jimmy , here 's a dollar for you trouble . There 's some bums around the corner they need your help .
COP: Keep the dollar , Joey . Get yourself a new suit .
JOEY: Here 's my new suit . Right here .
COP: Hey , do n't get wise !
JOEY: Just kidding , take it easy . No fuckin ' sense of humor .
JAKE: This looks done .
IRMA: It 's not done .
JAKE: It looks done . I 'll take it the way it is .
IRMA: Here 's your steak . You ca n't wait for it to be done . Here .
JAKE: No , I ca n't wait . You know when I wait ? When it 's important to wait . It 's not important to wait for no steak . It 's important to wait fo Reeves to leave the ring . It ai n't important to wait for no steak ! I won that fight . So , I stayed in the ing , and that way I made sure everybody knew it . I shoulda knocked him out earlier , sonofabitch .
JOEY: I ca n't convince him . He 's got such a thick head , I 'd like to crack it open myself . Believe me , my own other . It 's very hard . You do n't have to convince me I know we should be with Tommy . You talk to him . He do n't listen to nobody .
SALVY: Look , I 'm just tellin ' you how Tommy feels . Jake is makin ' it hard on himself . Tommy wants him with us . It 's as simple as that .
JOEY: All right , I 'll try . See you later .
SALVY: Tomorrow , at the gym . Do n't forget .
JOEY: Right , the gym .
IRMA: He 's doing it again .
JOEY: What 's the matter ? You 're drinking . You 're eating like an animal .
JAKE: Nothing
JOEY: Hey , c'mon , what 's the matter ?
JAKE: I ai n't ever gon na fight Joe Louis , that 's what 's the matter .
JOEY: What 're you talking about ? He 's a heavyweight . You 're a middleweight .
JAKE: Look at these hands . These fuckin ' hands . I was born with a girl 's hands . And even if I put on enough weight to be a heavyweight , I 'd be too slow to fight . No matter how ig I get , I 'll never be big enough to fight Louis .
JOEY: That 's what I 'm sayin ' . You should n't even think like that . It 's crazy .
JAKE: I tell you one thing . Ok , I 'll never be big enough to fight Louis , ut I know Joey , I know
JOEY: You know ?
JAKE: Yeah . Do me a favor .
JOEY: Sure . What is it ?
JAKE: Hit me in the face .
JOEY: You want me to do what ?
JAKE: You heard me , I said hit me .
JOEY: C'mon , Jack . You had a few drinks .
JAKE: Go ahead . I ai n't drunk . Take you est shot . On the jaw .
JOEY: Jack , I got no gloves .
JAKE: Here 's your glove .
JOEY: Jack ! Enough !
JAKE: Go ahead .
JOEY: What was that for ? I know you can take punches . I can hit you from now to doomsday . What the fuck does that prove ?
JAKE: See that , I do n't feel it . I can take it . I know I can take anybody .
SALVY: Hey Joey
JAKE: Did you know they were coming up here ?
JOEY: Yeah , yeah . They just wanted to talk to you . So I
JAKE: Do n't ever bring those kids up here again ! I 'm working out , I 'm killin ' myself in here , and they walk around like they fuckin ' own the neighborhood .
SALVY: Hey Joey , we better go . See you later .
JAKE: Go 'head . Wave goodbye . They 're your friends .
JOEY: What are you getting so hot about Tommy Como told him to come down here
JAKE: Hey , I do n't care about Tommy Como . I do n't care about Jesus Christ on the fuckin ' cross . I got ta give them a percentage of what I make ! I 'm in here breaking my ass , not them . Do n't ever bring them up here again .
JOEY: I did n't tell them to come . Tommy Como
JAKE: That 's right , fight back . I got laid three times before I came up here this morning and I can still eak your ass .
JOEY: You cocksucker .
FAN: Hey , Jake .
JAKE: Who 's that ?
JOEY: Whadda you care ?
JAKE: Whadda ya mean , whadda I care ? Who is she ? What 's a matter ? You afraid I 'm gon na take her on you ?
JOEY: No , I 'm not afraid . Why ? You wan na meet her ?
JAKE: Yeah
JOEY: Cause I 'll go right over there and ing her here .
JAKE: Go 'head .
JOEY: You sure you wan na meet her ? Do n't make me go over there , you change your mind and you make me look bad , cause she 's really a knockout . She 's 15 , this kid a great piece of ass .
JAKE: How do you know ? You know her that good ?
JOEY: No , I see her around the pool . I know her . I know her like that not like that .
JAKE: Nah , not now I wan na wait . I do n't feel right
JOEY: I 'm tellin ' you , she 'll be there , I know she 'll be there .
JAKE: 'Cause I wan na catch her alone .
JOEY: How you gon na catch anybody alone at a dance ? I do n't know if she 'll be there alone She 'll probably be there with he girlfriends or something .
JAKE: She ever go with them ? Like Salvy ?
JOEY: Nah , she do n't go with nobody . She 's only 15 years old .
JAKE: What does that have to do with it ? She do n't look 15 to me . I heard somethin ' with Salvy . She was with him once or somethin ' , I think . It was like some blonde . That 's the one
JOEY: Probably . You know she talks to everybody , and not just him .
JAKE: Yeah , she 's nice .
JOEY: Ah , some piece of ass , I 'm tellin ' you .
JAKE: You was n't with her , were you ?
JOEY: Huh ?
JAKE: You was n't with her ?
JOEY: With her ? How ?
JAKE: You know , like bang her o anything ?
JOEY: Ah , no , no . I did n't bang her . I know her from around here , that 's all . You want to meet her or what ?
JAKE: Nah , not now all those hard-ons around . I 'll wait . Not now .
JOEY: I 'm tellin ' you , she 'll be there , I know she 'll be there . Dressed up and everything .
JAKE: I do n't like all those other clowns around . That 's all I know .
JOEY: C'mon , hurry up . We 're never gon na get outa here tonight .
IRMA: Where you going at this hour ?
JAKE: What 're you , a cop ? I 'm goin ' out usiness .
IRMA: You fuckin ' worm , if you 're going out , I 'm going out .
JAKE: And where you goin ' ?
IRMA: None of your fuckin ' business .
JAKE: Eh , go out . Do what you 're gon na do . What do I care ?
IRMA: That 's right run out . I ai n't gon na be here when you get back .
JOEY: What a mouth on her you shoulda hit her no good fuckin ' Jewish cunt breakin ' our balls . You shoulda hit her with a chair .
JAKE: Hey , watch your mouth . Do n't talk like that . She 's still my wife .
JOEY: No , but Jake how much abuse can you take .
JAKE: How many times do I have to hit her ? I hit her enough .
IRMA: Go ahead that 's all you 're good for to go out and leave me here like a dog . You and your brother ! You do n't even look like brothers . You look like faggots ! That 's what you look like faggots !
JOEY: Look , could you move a little . Would you mind , darling ?
VERA: Mind what , Mr. Big Shot ?
JAKE: Eh , girlie , take a walk .
JOEY: All right , darling , I 'll just stand here and wait .
JAKE: Do you see her yet ?
JOEY: Give me a chance . Let me look .
JAKE: Be right back .
JOEY: Hey , Vickie , c'mere . Do n't be afraid . C'mere . Just say hello . This is my brother .
JAKE: Joey said you wanted to meet me . Is that right ? You wanted to meet me ?
VICKIE: I just wanted to say hello .
JAKE: You wanted to say hello , eh ? I ca n't believe it . When did you fall outa heaven ? Anyone ever tell you you 're the most beautiful one here , princess of the pool . You got a aby face . Look at mine . Whatcha wan na meet me for ?
VICKIE: I do n't know . 'Cause you 're cute .
JAKE: Ya hear , Joey ? She thinks this face is cute ? Hey , whatcha doin ' now ? You wan na go for a ride ?
VICKIE: Sure . Gim me a few minutes .
JAKE: Hey
VICKIE: You do n't talk very much .
JAKE: I ai n't ever talked to a movie sta efore .
VICKIE: I ai n't no movie star . I 'm just in high school .
JAKE: Oh no ? I thought you was a movie star .
VICKIE: Jake ! The bus !
JAKE: Any bus gives you trouble , I knock it out for ya .
VICKIE: You go first . Let me watch how to do this .
JAKE: You do n't get nothin ' done by watchin ' . You just got ta do it . Here , I 'll help you .
VICKIE: It feels real good .
JAKE: Just keep your eye on the ball .
VICKIE: Should I hit it ?
JAKE: Just give it a nice little tap .
VICKIE: I ca n't find my ball .
JAKE: Can you see it ?
VICKIE: No .
JAKE: No .
VICKIE: What does that mean ?
JAKE: It means the game is over .
JOE LAMOTTA: V for victory .
VICKIE: It 's a pleasure to meet you , Mr. LaMotta .
JOE LAMOTTA: Sit down . Eat something .
JAKE: C'mon , Pop . You 've been in America so many years . Speak English .
JOE LAMOTTA: You want me to speak English Fuck you . That 's English .
JAKE: Pop , do n't curse . There 's a girl here . I 'm gon na show her around the house . Why do n't you just finish your wine ?
VICKIE: Jake , this is your father 's edroom .
JAKE: That 's all right . He do n't mind .
VICKIE: Jake
JAKE: It 's OK .
JOEY: The fuckin ' papers are full of Robinson and nothing on Jake and Jake knocked him clear outa the ing in Detroit . He 's the only guy ever to beat Robinson . Whatsa matter with you ? I thought we had an arrangement .
REPORTER: We do Joey . You know we do .
JOEY: You holding me up for more cash o what ?
REPORTER: I ca n't print nothing if Jake wo n't give me nothing .
JOEY: C'mon , Jake . You 're makin ' us look stupid . I brought these guys up here , now you do n't wan na talk to them ? What are ya doin ' ? Open you mouth , for Christsake .
JAKE: I 'm tallin ' you now , when I read this , it better not make me look ad .
REPORTER: Jake , did I ever make you look bad efore ?
JAKE: Maybe it was n't you , but you know what I 'm talkin ' about .
JOEY: Do n't worry . Do n't worry . It 's gon na be all right . Ask him your questions .
REPORTER: All right , Jake , you 're being talked about as the top middleweight contender . Do you think another victory over Suga Ray will get you a shot at the title ?
JAKE: Why not ? There 's nobody else around who wants to fight me ; they 're all afraid . I do n't see why I should n't have a shot at the title right now .
REPORTER: Well , the word is to get a title shot you have to cooperate with the people who control boxing , in New York . And they 're saying that you do n't cooperate .
JAKE: You guys know more about that than I do . I just fight
JOEY: He fights the toughest guys around that everybody else is afraid to fight
JAKE: I 'm the only guy ever to beat Suga Ray , and I still do n't have a shot at the title .
REPORTER: You just fought Sugar Ray two weeks ago and you 're training like this ight now Are you afraid Suga Ray might beat you this time ?
JAKE: I tell you what . You hit me here . Sugar Ray hits me here . I ca n't tell the difference . I just fight .
VICKIE: Are you sure we should be doing this ?
JAKE: Come over here .
VICKIE: You said never to touch you before a fight .
JAKE: If you let me do it , I 'll murde you . Come here .
VICKIE: You said I could n't . You 've been good for two weeks
JAKE: Come here .
VICKIE: Jake
JAKE: Do what I say .
VICKIE: Jake , you made me promise not to get you excited .
JAKE: Go 'head . Do it .
VICKIE: I like the gym smell .
JAKE: Now take your panties off .
VICKIE: Oh , Jake .
JAKE: I ca n't do it . I ca n't fool around . This Robinson , I got ta beat him again . I ca n't fool around . Do n't come near me .
JOEY: They robbed us ! Those fuckin ' judges What the fuck fight were they watching ? If I see them on the street , I 'll break their heads . Decision Robinson , my fuckin ' ass ! Those judges give him the decision 'cause he 's goin in the army next week ! How else could this have happened ? What do you think they gave him the decision for , that 's why .
JAKE: Whadda I got ta do , Joey ? I knocked him down . What did I do wrong ? I do n't understand .
JOEY: You won and was robbed ! You did n't do nothin ' wrong .
JAKE: I dunno . Maybe I do n't deserve to win . I 've done a lot of bad things . I dunno
JOYE: Fuck that . This was the fight . This coulda done it . This was our shot . They out and out robbed us .
MARIO: Vickie is here , Jake .
JAKE: I do n't wan na see nobody .
JOEY: You want us to wait for you ?
JAKE: No , take her home . I wan na be alone for a while . Everybody go .
JAKE: I just weighed myself - I 'm 161 . No more deals like this Janiro ullshit . I did n't tell you to do it in the first place .
JOEY: Jake , you 're the one who said you could get down to 155 ! What did I do , pull it out of the fuckin ' hat ?
JAKE: Well , sometimes you should n't listen to me ! Now I do n't know if I can make it down to 155 . I 'm having trouble making 160 , and without telling me , you sign me for a fight at 155 pounds , and if I do n't make 155 , I forfeit $ 15,000 ! You 're supposed to know what you 're doin ' . You 're supposed to be a manager !
JOEY: You want the title shot ?
JAKE: Say what you 're gon na say .
JOEY: You want the title shot or not ?
JAKE: Say what you got ta say . Do n't be a smart ass .
JOEY: This Janiro 's an up-and-coming fighter , this kid you got ta knock out . Knockout this fuckin ' kid ! I 'm telling you , this is your step towards getting a shot at the title . Listen to me I 'm telling you . You been killin ' yourself fo three years . There 's nobody left they 're afraid to fight you . This Janiro 's up-and-coming . He do n't know . Fuckin ' tear him apart , wipe him out ! What are you worried about ? Your weight ? Look , even if you lose they 're gon na think you 're weak ; they 're gon na think you 're not the fighter you used to be . They 'll match you with guys they were afraid to match you with efore , and then you 'll kill them and you 'll get your title shot . And if you beat this kid Janiro , they got ta give you a shot at the title ecause there 's nobody else . Eithe way you win and you do it on you own just like you want it . All ight ?
VICKIE: Joey 's right . Janiro 's up-and coming , he 's good looking
JAKE: What do you mean , `` good looking ? ''
VICKIE: Well , he 's popular . A lotta people like Janiro . You beat him and it only figures they 'll wan na see you get a title shot . But , what do I know ? I should keep my mouth shut , I should
JAKE: Who asked you ?
VICKIE: But , Jake , I was just
JAKE: Who asked you ?
VICKIE: I was just
JAKE: Who asked you ?
COMEDIAN: Ladies and gentlemen , I 'd like to point out a special guest we have with us tonight The Raging Bull , The Bronx Bull , Mr. Jake LaMotta .
JAKE: Look at this abuse I got ta take .
JANET: Janet .
SALVY: Hi , Joey . Jake , how you doin ' ? Vickie
JAKE: What 're you lookin ' at ? You lookin ' at him ?
VICKIE: No , I 'm not . I 'm looking at you .
JAKE: Do n't tell me `` No . '' I saw you lookin ' at him . Why , you like him ?
VICKIE: I 'm not interested in him .
JAKE: You 're not interested in him ?
VICKIE: No , I 'm not .
JAKE: In other words , you 're not interested in him but you 'd be interested in somebody else , right ?
VICKIE: Jake , c'mon now . Do n't start .
JAKE: Look at this , all of a sudden everybody 's a fuckin ' Romeo around here . Did you see the way she was lookin ' at him ?
JOEY: Nah , she would never
JAKE: Did n't you just see her lookin ' at him ? She told me no , but I do n't elieve her .
JOEY: C'mon , Jake . You know she 's crazy about you .
JAKE: I 'd just love to catch her . Oooooh , I 'd just love to catch her once .
WAITER: These are from Tommy Como .
JOEY: Excuse me for a minute . Be right ack .
JAKE: Do n't be long . I 'm afraid with all these tough guys here .
JOEY: Jake , come over for a few minutes . Tommy wants to say hello to you . C'mon , just come and say hello .
JAKE: Hi , Tommy . How are you ?
TOMMY: Jake , sit down for a minute .
JAKE: C'mon , Tommy
TOMMY: How you feelin ' ? Ok ? You feelin ' good ?
JAKE: Never felt better .
TOMMY: Tony Janiro 's got ta watch out , eh ?
JAKE: He should .
TOMMY: This Janiro 's a good fiahter , pretty good-lookin ' kid .
SALVY: Bet on him three times . Always come through for me .
TOMMY: How 's the weight ? Ok ?
JAKE: Yeah , the weight 's Ok .
TOMMY: All right , lem me ask you something . Let 's say I was a good friend of yours . And I was telling you I was gon na bet a lot of money on you in this Janiro fight . What would you tell me ?
JAKE: I 'd tell you to bet a bundle .
VICKIE: What ?
JAKE: You asleep ?
VICKIE: Yeah .
JAKE: Huh ?
VICKIE: Yeah , what ?
JAKE: Tell me , you think of anybody else when I 'm making love to you ?
VICKIE: Nobody . I love you , remember ?
JAKE: Then why 'd you say that thing about Tony Janiro ?
VICKIE: What did I say ?
JAKE: That he 's got a pretty face .
VICKIE: I never noticed his face .
JAKE: You sure you 're not thinking of him ight now ?
VICKIE: Positive .
JAKE: You 're the one who said he was good looking . You think he 's good looking 'cause I know you think he 's good-looking . I 'll smash his face inside out . I 'll make him into dog meat . Nobody 's gon na think he 's good-looking when I get through with him . So you just go ahead and think about who you want .
EAGAN: Tony Janiro , 151 lbs . and one half .
JAKE: Just a minute .
EAGAN: Ok . This is official .
CROWD: LaMotta .
ANNOUNCER: The winner , by unanimous decision , in ten rounds , Jake LaMotta !
JOEY: I love you .
JAKE: This is my night ! Listen to them ! I 'm gon na be champ !
DETROIT PROMOTER: When we gon na get Jake back in Detroit ? Jesus , he really did a jo on Janiro . Who you after next , Joey ?
JOEY: I dunno . We 're working on it . He 's training at the camp now .
JACKIE CURTIE: After what I seen , they got ta give him a shot at the title .
JOEY: We 're gon na get our shot .
DETROIT PROMOTER: Oh Joey , this is Jackie Curtie . He handles a lot of business in South Ohio .
JACKIE CURTIE: I like your brother . Made a lot of money on him .
JOEY: Betcha more than he has .
JACKIE CURTIE: Made a little cabbage on the Tommy Bell fight too . Whatever happened to him ?
JOEY: Ai n't he dead ?
DETROIT PROMOTER: Nah . He 's got a job downtown . Runs an elevator in some building .
JOEY: Yeah ?
DETROIT PROMOTER: Went down to see him the other day . I says , `` Tommy , take me up to the fifth floor . '' And you know , he took me right up there .
JACKIE CURTIE: Yeah , Tommy always was a stand-up guy .
DETROIT PROMOTER: Joey , let me get you another drink .
JOEY: Just a minute . Excuse me . I 'll be ight back .
VICKIE: What the hell am I doing wrong ? Just because Jake is training , I ca n't go out ? What am I , a goddamn prisoner ?
JOEY: No , you 're his wife .
VICKIE: I 'm not doing anythina wrong . I 'm just trying to have a good time . Do I have to be cooped up in the house all the time ?
JOEY: It do n't look right .
VICKIE: Well , go ahead , tell Jake . He 's gon na kill me anyway . It 's a matte of time .
JOEY: I 'm not gon na tell him nothing ; but if he finds out , he will kill you . What 's the matter with you ? Are n't you happy ? You got everything you want .
VICKIE: You do n't sleep with him . I do . I do n't get to breathe without tellin ' him . He keeps me in a cage . If he thinks I 'm lookin ' at somebody the wrong way , I get used as a punching bag . He do n't trust nobody . If he saw the two of us talking together right now , you 'd e in trouble too believe me . Look at me , Joey . I 'm 19 years old . I wan na enjoy my life . I love Jake , ut you do n't know . He gets crazy sometimes . I 'm scared .
JOEY: Try to understand , Vickie . Jake 's got a lotta aggravation . He 's been a top contender too long .
VICKIE: That 's right , take his part . You 're his brother . He 's never gon na be champ . Too many people are against him .
JOEY: And you 're drinking with them right now .
VICKIE: And I 'm gon na finish my drink . And , I 'm gon na have a good time , because I ai n't doing nothing wrong .
JOEY: You 're wrong to be here . Let 's go .
SALVY: Joey , relax . You 're taking this the wrong way . Why do n't you sit down and have a drink ?
JOEY: Excuse me , I 'm talking to my siste in-law .
SALVY: Excuse me for living .
JOEY: What do you think , I 'm blind ? My other 's breaking his ass in a ing , and you 're here with his wife .
SALVY: Hey Joey , I 'm here with Patsy and Vera and Sandy . And Vickie just happened to come along . We 're just trying to have a good time . What do you want from me ? So , why do n't you just take it easy before this gets out of hand .
JOEY: Get the fuck outa here . What did you do , take your gangster pills today ? I 'll tear your fuckin ' head off your shoulders !
PAUL: Ai n't you forgettin ' something ? Ai n't there never supposed to be no trouble in this joint ?
SALVY: Hey Joey , whadda ya lookin ' to die young ?
JOEY: I 'll suck your eyes out ! I 'll fuckin ' take the two of you .
PATSY: Do n't fuckin ' put your hands on me ! You 're gon na near about this , Paul .
PAUL: Get the fuck outa here . Do n't come in my place and start fuckin ' trouble I do n't care who you are ! Get outa here . Go on .
COMO: All rightg I do n't have to hear any more . I think I understand what happened . I understand it was you other 's wife and there was probably a misunderstanding . I 'm not sayin ' Salvy should n't have acted the way he did . But , Joey , you do n't raise your hands . You do n't do that kind of thing . This time we forget about it but no more after this . You understand ?
JOEY: Yeah , I understand , Tommy .
COMO: All right , you guys , shake hands .
JOEY: Yeah , they 're good . They 're good , Tommy .
COMO: What is it with you ? Ca n't you talk ? You got like a funny attitude . I ca n't figure you out , Joey . What 's with you and the quick answers ? You wan na get outa here fast ?
JOEY: Aw , Tommy , c'mon , it ai n't that .
COMO: Look Joey , I wan na tell you something . Your brother ai n't gon na get nowhere without us nowhere . And I 'm tellin ' you between the two of us , it 's gettin ' to the point where it 's gettin ' to be a real embarrassment to me , a real embarrassment .
JOEY: How can he embarrass you ?
COMO: He 's an embarrassment because Frankie and the other guys are expectin ' me to do something about it , and I 'm lookin ' very bad . I ca n't deliver a kid from my own neighborhood . Why 's he make it so hard on himself ? He comes to me , I can make it easier for him .
JOEY: Tommy , Jake respects you . He wo n't even say hello to anybody else you know that . But you know when Jake gets set on somethin ' , Jesus Christ Almighty could get off the fuckin ' cross and he ai n't gon na talk him out of it . I 'm his kid other . I got no say with Jake on this . He thinks he can buck everybody and make it on his own .
COMO: Make it on his own ? Does he know the kind of money involved ? I mean the real money . He thinks he 's gon na become champ on his own ? We 're gon na sit by and see some nut come in there and hold one of the most important titles in the world ? A nut who do n't listen to nobody o espect nobody ? Is he really crazy ? Listen , Joey , you understand , you tell him . I do n't care how great he is or how colorful . He could beat all the Sugar Ray Robinsons and all the Janiros he wants to . He ai n't gon na get a shot at the title without us . I 'm not askin ' you to do another thing except get that message into that thick head !
JOEY: Whatcha doin ' ?
JAKE: I remember the first time I met Vickie I know there 's somethin ' up . I know she 's doin ' somethin ' , ut I ca n't catch her
JOEY: Maybe she 's afraid you 're gon na hit her so she ca n't talk to you the way she wants to .
JAKE: What do you mean ?
JOEY: Try talkin ' to her . She 's your wife ask her what 's the matter .
JAKE: When I 'm away , did you ever notice anythin ' funny with her ? Tell me the truth .
JOEY: Jack , if there was anything funny , I would tell you .
JAKE: I want you to keep an eye on he when I 'm not here . Understand ?
JOEY: Sure , I 'll keep an eye on her .
JAKE: What did Tommy say ?
JOEY: I got good news , and I got bad news . The good news is you got you shot at the title . The bad news is
JAKE: Yeah , I know .
EAGAN: Billy Fox , 173 3/4 pounds .
JAKE: What 's up , Colonel ?
EAGAN: I 'd like to talk to Jake a minute .
JOEY: Sure .
EAGAN: I suppose you heard what everybody 's been saying , Jake .
JAKE: What who 's been sayin ' ?
EAGAN: You were a big favorite in this fight . Then two days ago the odds start jumping all over the place until you 're a 12-5 underdog .
JAKE: I do n't follow no gamblin ' Commissioner . I 'm just a fighter .
EAGAN: Now the fight 's off the books altogether . Meyer Lansky could n't get a bet down on this fight . Some people are saying you 're going into the tank .
JAKE: Believe what you want .
EAGAN: I want to believe you , LaMotta .
JAKE: I 'm gon na kill him . That fuckin ' jig 's gon na wish he never came outa the jungle . You got any money ?
EACAN: What ?
JAKE: You got any money you want to bet on Billy Fox , you can put it right here 'cause Jake LaMotta do n't go down for nobody .
EAGAN: That 's all I wanted to hear .
JAKE: Stand up ! What the fuck are you doin ' ?
CROWD: Got your swimming trunks on , Jake ? I hope they 're paying you enough . Fake , fake .
TONY: What 's the matter with you ? What 's the matter with you ?
JAKE: Hit me ! Hit me ! What 's the matte with you , you motherfucker ? Hit me !
TONY: Do n't fight anymore ! It 's a free country , do n't fight anymore !
JAKE: Why did they have to stop it ? Why did they have to stop it ?
REPORTER: What happened ?
HANDLER: He must 've been really hurt in the 2nd . He did n't answer me when I tried to tell him something in the corner .
JAKE: Get everyone out of here !
JOEY: It woulda been so easy , Jack . So easy
JAKE: C'mon , Joey .
JOEY: G'wan , do it . Protect yourself , rummy .
JAKE: What the fuck they want ? I took the dive . They want me to fall down too ? I do n't fall down for nobody . I never went down in my life . Joey , what do I got ta do ? Crawl on my hands and knees ? I made an asshole of myself in the fuckin ' Garden ! All the newspaper writers make fun of me . I 'm the bum of the year . All I want is a shot . Just a fuckin ' shot . What do I got ta do ? I 'll do anything .
JOEY: Except fall down like a normal person .
JAKE: Yeah , except fall down . That 's ight .
JOEY: All right , you do n't wan na fall down , so now you got ta take a rest . So , you enjoy the suspension . 'Cause there 's nothin ' you can do about it . Let the Commissioner and the D.A . jerk you around . So you wait .
JAKE: Jesus Christ ! Seven months ! What am I gon na do for seven months ? I 'm gon na go crazy . How do I keep my strength ? By that time I 'll be too weak to win the title . And my weight ? Forget about it I 'm gon na blow up like a balloon . I ai n't never gon na hold my weight down . Seven months ! I do n't know
JOEY: We did what we had to do . Tommy do n't forget . Sooner or late you 'll get your shot if Tommy do n't die .
BELL CAPTAIN: Mr. Williams .
DETROIT PROMOTER: It 's official . The fight 's been postponed twenty-four hours .
JOEY: That 's right . `` No comment . '' You like that ? Good , 'cause I got a lot more `` No comments '' where that one came from .
JAKE: I ca n't eat a steak . If I eat a steak , I 'm gon na have trouble making the weigh-in .
JOEY: So eat just a little . You got ta eat something .
JARS: What am I gon na do for 24 hours ? I ca n't even eat !
DOCTOR: How 's that ?
JOEY: How long did it take you ?
DOCTOR: 45 seconds .
JOEY: No good . Try to get it down . It 's got ta be no more than 30 seconds to e on the safe side if we got ta stitch him up .
COMO: Hey champ !
JAKE: Tommy , thanks for coming over .
COMO: You just take it easy , now . You 'll do all right . Feelin ' Ok ?
JAKE: I 'm Ok .
COMO: Just come by to wish you luck . Need anything ?
JAKE: No , we 're all right . Thanks anyway , Tommy .
COMO: Ok , champ .
VICKIE: I 'll take care of him . Thanks , Tommy . Bye .
JAKE: C'mere .
VICKIE: What did I do ?
JAKE: You do n't kiss like that . Hello and goodbye , that 's all you do .
VICKIE: All I did
JAKE: You know what I 'm talking about . Do n't ever make me look bad on the night of my big fight .
VICKIE: You 're hurting my arm .
JAKE: Shut up . You just say hello and goodbye to him . You do n't kiss him the way you did . That 's out of line .
VICKIE: But Jake I did n't say anything
JAKE: Do n't ever do that again . You do n't do it !
VICKIE: Jake
JAKE: You hear what I said ? You do n't do it .
JOEY: Jake , Jake
JAKE: She ai n't gon na ruin this fight fo me .
ANNOUNCER: And here is the young man who has inherited Marcel Cerdan 's European championship - Laurent Dauthuille .
ANNOUNCER: And in this corner , the middleweight champion of the world , from Casablanca , Morocco , the Casablanca Clouter , Marcel Cerdan !
JAYE: I only wish it was you , Joe .
JOE LOUIS: Win the belt back for us , Jake . Good luck .
JOEY: Look at him , Jackie ! You got at ! The fuckin ' championship ! He 's yours ! Finish him off .
ANNOUNCER: The new middleweight champion of the world by a knockout after nine ounds , the Bronx Bull , Jake LaMotta !
JAKE: Good evening , ladies and gentlemen . It 's a thrill to be standin ' here talking to you wonderful people . In fact , it 's a thrill to be standin ' . I have n't seen so many people since my last fight at Madison Square Garden . After that fight a reporte asked me , `` Jake , where do you go from here ? '' I said , `` To a hospital . ''
VICKIE: Jake , you 're home .
JOEY: Hi , Vickie .
VICKIE: What 's the matter with you ?
JAKE: Tryin ' to get this fuckin ' TV to work . Paid all this money for it and still ca n't get a station a mile away . And Mr. Wizard here ai n't no help .
JOEY: Screw you , Jack .
JAKE: Where you been ?
VICKIE: I went out .
JAKE: What 's that kissing on the mouth shit ?
JOEY: What ? I just said hello . Since when I ca n't kiss my sister-in-law ?
JAKE: Ai n't a cheek ever good enough fo you ? I never even kissed Mama on the mouth .
JOEY: Well , you 're not supposed to kiss your mother on the mouth .
JAKE: Well , that 's what I mean .
JOEY: I ca n't tell . You 're stomach 's in the way .
JAKE: Answer me somethin ' . What happened at the Copa with Salvy when I was out of town ?
JOEY: When ?
JAKE: You know , when you gave him a eatin ' .
JOEY: Nothin ' . Salvy was out of line . He was drunk or somethin ' , I dunno . Anyway , the windup was I gave him a eatin ' . Tommy called me down , and we straightened it out . It 's all forgotten about .
JAKE: Why did n't you tell me about it ?
JOEY: It did n't have nothin ' to do with you .
JAKE: Did n't it have nothin ' to do with me ?
JOEY: No , I just told you what happened .
JAKE: Who did it have anything to do with Vickie ?
JOEY: Jack , no . I just explained the whole thing to you . It was just etween me and Salvy , if it had anything to do with you and Vickie , I woulda told you about it .
JAKE: Well , I heard some things .
JOEY: `` You heard some things . '' Will you stop worryin ' about that shit ? Forget about it . You know you got a title fight comin ' up .
JAKE: Did Salvy fuck Vickie ?
JOEY: What ?
JAKE: You 're supposed to keep an eye on her for me . I 'm askin '
JOEY: I did keep an eye
JAKE: Then why did you give him a beatin ' if he did n't do anything ? You and him been friends a long time .
JOEY: Some things changed between us . Now , he thinks who the fuck he is . He 's been passing certain remarks that I do n't like .
JAKE: Do n't bullshit me , Joey . You ai n't tellin ' me the truth .
JOEY: What bullshit ? Hey , I 'm you other . You wan na believe me - you trust me ?
JAKE: When it comes to her , I do n't trust nobody . I 'm askin ' you somethin ' .
JOEY: Well , you 're wrong Jack . I 'm tellin '' you what happened . He got outta line , we had a fight , and it 's staightened out now .
JAKE: You givin ' me that look . I got ta accept your word , but if I find out anythin ' , I 'm gon na kill somebody
JOEY: So , go ahead . Kill everybody . Kill Salvy , kill Vickie , kill Tommy Como , kill me while you 're at it . What do I care ? You 're killing yourself the way you 're eating , the way you worry about things you do n't have to worry about .
JAKE: What do you mean , `` you '' ?
JOEY: What ?
JAKE: What do you mean , `` you '' ?
JOEY: I meant , kill everybody . You or me or anybody . You 're a big shot . Kill , kill g'head .
JAKE: But you said `` you . ''
JOEY: So what ?
JAKE: Eh , Joey , even you do n't know what you meant . You mentioned Salvy , Tommy Como , you that means somethin ' . Why 'd you say them ? You coulda said anybody .
JOEY: You 're worried about this girl , you 're gon na let this girl ruin you 're life for you You wan na worry , worry about your fuckin ' stomach that you ca n't bend over that you got ta step in the ring in a month .
JAKE: Did you ever fuck my wife ?
JOEY: What ?
JAKE: I do n't mean now . I mean before efore we met .
JOEY: Whadda ya mean ?
JAKE: Did you ever fuck my wife ?
JOEY: Whatsa matter with you ?
JAKE: You 're very smart , Joey , very smart . Nobody gives me a straight answer around here . You 're givin ' me these answers , but you still did n't answer my question . Did you fuck Vickie ?
JOEY: I got ta go . I got ta get outta here . I ca n't take this shit . Lenore is waitin ' for me . I got ta go . You 're a definite wacko . You 're fuckin ' crazy , you know that , crazy .
JAKE: Where you been all day ?
VICKIE: I took the kids to my sister 's .
JAKE: I called . You were n't there .
VICKIE: I got bored so I went to the movies .
JAKE: What 'd you see ?
VICKIE: I went to the movies .
JAKE: What 'd you see ?
VICKIE: `` Father of the Bride . ''
JAKE: What was it about ?
VICKIE: Oh , c'mon . For Christsake , do I have to tell you everything ?
JAKE: Did you ever go to the Copa when I was away ?
VICKIE: What 're you talking about ?
JAKE: Answer me when I talk to you . What happened that night ?
VICKIE: I am answering
JAKE: What do I have to do to get a straight answer around here .
VICKIE: Jake , no
JAKE: Do I have to kill you , eh ? Do I have to kill somebody to get an answer ? I know about you at the Copa . I know all about it .
VICKIE: I did n't do anything wrong . I swear . I just had a few drinks .
JAKE: With Salvy , eh ?
VICKIE: I went with Sandy and Vera . Salvy was there . Stop it . I just had a drink , that 's all . I did n't do anything wrong .
JAKE: Come out of there ! Did you fuck Salvy ? Answer me . Open this fuckin ' door , you fuckin ' cunt ! Who 've you been fuckin ' ?
VICKIE: Nobody , I tell you . Jake stop it .
JAKE: You 're a fuckin ' liar .
VICKIE: All right , I fucked everybody ! Go ahead , kill me , kill me .
JAKE: You did ?
VICKIE: Yeah , I sucked his cock .
JOEY: Do n't hit your brother ! Be nice .
JAKE: Was Vickie part of the deal with Tommy ? Was my wife part of the deal ? Tell me , was that it ?
JOEY: Stop it . What 're you , crazy ?
JAKE: You did n't tell me . You did n't tell me . You let me marry her . You let me marry her .
VICKIE: You 're killing him . You 're killing him for nothing . Stop it .
JAKE: Get the fuck outa here . Whadda you mean nothing ' ? You stupid bitch !
VICKIE: Nothing is what I said ! Go on , kull me . Kill me . I 'm not afraid of you anymore . I do n't care if you kill me like you 're killing him . You 're a sick animal .
JAKE: You 're the fuckin ' animal ! You ran around with every guy I knew while I was breakin ' my ass for you .
VICKIE: You 're not only an animal , you 're a stupid animal . You 're rotten . Rotten . Rotten . You 're a sick maniac . A maniac ! You elong in a mental hospital .
VICKIE: Well , he ai n't dead in case you 're interested . I 'm leaving you . And I do n't care if you do try to kill me . Go ahead . I 'm not afraid of you anymore . There 's worse things than being dead and one of them 's living with you I 'm leaving tonight . I must have een crazier than you are fo stayin ' with you this long . You 're hopeless . You 're not gon na let anybody love you . I kept thinking that you 'd change when you got to e the champ But I just ca n't take it anymore . I 'm taking the kids and I 'm leavin ' .
JAKE: Aw , Vickie , aw Vickie , please no . Vickie , no do n't leave me . Christ , I 'm pleading I know , I know all the bad things , but I need you . I 'm a bum without you and the kids . I 'll change . Aw , Vickie , maybe I do n't do it the right way , ut I love you . I love you .
VICKIE: You know , if there 's one thing I just do n't understand you , not one single little bit . You love me ?
JAKE: Yeah
TONY: It ai n't worth it , Jake . Get out .
JAKE: What time is it ?
TONY: Nine o'clock .
JAKE: At night ?
TONY: Yeah . At night .
JAKE: How many pounds I got ta lose ?
TONY: Three more , I figure .
JAKE: Just give me a chip of ice to put in my mouth . Just a chip of ice .
TONY: I 'll give you anything you want , Jake . I think you should come out for a few minutes give yourself a break .
JAKE: Are you outa your mind ? If I come out , I 'll lose the title .
VICKIE: Jake , why do n't you just try lying down and get some rest .
JAKE: I do n't know what it is . I dunno , it 's the kind of thing that the words wo n't come out .
VICKIE: Jake
JAKE: What ?
VICKIE: I want to say something to you without you blowing your stack .
JAKE: OK. Talk .
VICKIE: Why do n't you just call him up ?
JAKE: What do I say to him ? Call him up on the phone and say , `` Joey , I 'm sorry about that little trouble we had . How about havin ' dinner ? '' Is that what I say ?
VICKIE: No , not that .
JAKE: Then what ?
VICKIE: I do n't know .
RINGSIDE ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen , I 've sat in front of these microphones fo over twenty years but this is the strangest championship bout I 've ever seen . With two minutes to go in the final round , the champion , the mighty Bull from the Bronx , is just simply taking punch afte punch from the challenger . Dauthuille scores a combination , then backpedals . LaMotta pursues him . One minute to go . Laurent DauthuiLlle , who has already beat Lamotta in a non-title bout , is about to fulfill a dream to ing the middleweight crown back to France .
RINGSIDE'ANNOUNCER: Thirty seconds to go . The Bull starts to swing . LaMotta comes in for a brutal body combinaticn one , two , three , four punches . LaMotta has landed a solid left hook to the Frenchman 's jaw ! Dauthuille seems confused . LaMotta is swinging wildly now right , left , right , left ! Dauthuille is backing off ! Everyone is on their feet ! I can hardly see , ladies and gentlemen . Dauthuille is on the ropes . LaMotta hits a right Dauthuille is down ! Dauthuille is down ! Referee Lou Handler is counting him out three , four , five if Dauthuille can stand , he 'll win the decision eight , nine Dauthuille is on one knee ten ! It 's all over ! With thirteen seconds left on the clock , Jake LaMotta has retained his middleweight championship in one of the most remarkable combacks in boxing ! Dauthuille is standing now , confused . But the fight is over .
ANNOUNCER: The middleweight champion , and still champion by a knockout in fifteen rounds , the Bronx Bull , the Raging Bull , Jake LaMotta !
JAKE: I miss Joey . I wish Joey was here .
VICKIE: Why do n't you just call him ?
JAKE: I dunno .
VICKIE: Tell him how you feel you miss him . Tell him you 're sorry .
JAKE: Ok , all right . Telephone 's in the hall . Dial his number .
THE HALLWAY: As the number starts to ring , VICKIE hands the phone to JAKE .
JAKE: I shoulda never hit my brother . Afterwards I was sorry . Now every time I need somethin ' I got ta go shoppin ' for it ! A psychiatrist once told me , `` When you hit you other you 're really hittin ' you mother but you ca n't admit it to yourself . '' He 's really crazy . I woulda never hit my mother . I mean , only in self-defense ! A lot of people wanta know who was the best guy I ever fought . Let 's see there was that one I fought twice the other Frenchman you know who I mean Dauthuille ! He was tough , but I eat him I had to ! I mean , how would it sound losin ' to a guy whose name you ca n't even pronounce ? But Robinson . I can say that alright . I fought Suga Ray so many times it 's a wonder I do n't have diabetes ! Linda get me another drink ! Linda 's the most popular waitress here you can tell by her tips ! She 's the kinda girl I go for . You oughta see the ones I get .
JAKE CONT'D: Valentine 's Day . The anniversary of the St. Valentine 's Massacre . Robinson did n't use a machine gun ut it was still a massacre
LENORE: Look at that . The sonofabitch is outboxing Robinson .
JOEY: I ca n't believe he 's getting that jab in .
PABST COMMERCIAL: `` Friend , the quality that has carried Pabst Blue Ribbon around the world is yours for the asking . Next time that friendly bartende says , 'What 'll you have ? ' give him the answer the whole world gives , Pabst Blue Ribbon ! ''
JAKE: He ai n't hurting me , but I ca n't get him down .
TONY: Do n't talk . Keep at it . Jab , jab , jab . You 're ahead on points .
S.R.'S TRAINER: He 's going , Sugar . He 's old . He ai n't Jake LaMotta no more . Make your move , Sugar . Kill him !
TV ANNOUNCER: LaMotta 's on queer street , but he 's still standing . Robinson throws a ight , a left , a right , a right and a right again ! How can LaMotta stay on his feet ?
JAKE: You never knocked me down . You could never knock me down .
ROBINSON: So what ?
JAKE: I 'm pulling out of next Wednesday 's TV bout 'cause I ca n't make the weight . I 'm fighting at light heavyweight , and I still ca n't make the weight .
REPORTER: Does that mean
JAKE: It means I 'm through with boxing . I 'm tired with tryin ' to make the weight anymore . I 'm sick of thinkin ' about weight , weight , weight .
REPORTER: You sound bitter .
JAKE: Why should I be bitter ? Boxing 's een good to me . I got a nice house , three kids , a beautiful wife take a picture of her . Vickie .
REPORTER: What do you think of Jake 's etirement , Mrs. LaMotta ?
JAKE: I also bought a club on Collins Avenue , and I 'm gon na open it real soon . Know what I 'm gon na call it ? `` Jake LaMotta 's . ''
JAKE: Sorry , empty ! Heh , heh ! Oh , I did n't mean that . If I do n't give your husband no money , he wo n't have enough to buy you a drink . To show you I 'm a nice guy , this one 's on me . The last one was you payment for this month .
RICKY: Would n't miss it , Jake .
JAKE: Hey , honey , give these fellas a ound on me . I can tell they 're gon na be regular customers .
WAITRESS: I 'll have to ask for your I.D .
JAKE: Whew ! Any girl that can kiss like that can drink in my club any time !
VICKIE: Jake .
JAKE: I 'm sorry . I had to work late last night . Slept at the club .
VICKIE: I 'm leaving your Jake .
JAKE: Sure , what else is new ?
VICKIE: No . This time it 's true . I did n't other to tell you until I had everything worked out .
JAKE: Open the door , Vickie .
VICKIE: No . I wo n't talk to you where you can use your hands on me .
JAKE: Aw , c'mon . Do n't say that .
VICKIE: I got a lawyer , Jake . We 're getting a divorce . I 'm getting custody of the kids .
JAKE: Aw , c'mon , Vick
VICKIE: I 'm sick of it . I ca n't watch you this way . You 're too drunk all the time . There 's too many girls . I ca n't I do n't wan na talk about it . I made up my mind .
1ST DEPUTY: Let 's go , Jake , wake up !
JAKE: Huh ? Whadda ya mean , get up ?
1ST DEPUTY: We 're from
JAKE: I know where you 're from . You guys look the same every place .
1ST DEPUTY: They wan na talk to you .
JAKE: About what ?
1ST DEPUTY: I do n't run the joint . They just told me to bring you in .
JAKE: For what ?
2ND DEPUTY: C'mon , get dressed .
JAKE: Hey , I 'm a big tax payer down here . Do n't that entitle me to some information what this is all about ?
2ND DEPUTY: You recognize this girl ? She been in the club ?
JAKE: I dunno .
2ND DEPUTY: She says you introduced her to men .
JAKE: I introduced a lot of people to men . So what ? What does that mean ?
2ND DEPUTY: She 's fourteen .
JAKE: Vickie , open up . I need to come in .
VICKIE: Are you drunk ?
JAKE: No . Open the door .
VICKIE: The kids are sleeping .
JAKE: I promise I just got ta pick up one thing .
VICKIE: All right , just do n't make any noise .
JAKE: I need ten thousand dollars . My lawyer says if we can spread ten thousand bucks around , we can get the case dropped .
VICKIE: But they do n't have a case against you .
JAKE: Are you kiddin ' ? Did you ever see a 14-year-old testify in court ? Did you see the papers ? `` LaMotta on Vice Rap . '' Everybody likes a shot at the Champ .
VICKIE: Jake , be careful ! What 're you doing to the belt ? !
JAKE: Do n't make no difference no more .
VICKIE: Ca n't you get the money from you friends ?
JAKE: What friends ?
JEWELER: Did n't you also wish to sell the Championship Belt , Mr. LaMotta ?
JAKE: That 's it . Those are the jewels that were in the belt .
JEWELER: But where 's the belt ?
JAKE: You want the jewels or the belt ?
JEWELER: Both . These stones are worth about fifteen hudred dollars , but the elt of a champion is a very rare item . The belt with the stones untouched would have been worth near five thousand dollars .
JAKE: I ca n't raise the ten thousand . Fuck 'em . Let 'em put me on trial .
EMMA: Will I see you later ?
JAKE: Yeah . I dunno I 'll call you .
VOICE OVER: My name is H. I. McDunnough
VOICE OVER: Call me Hi .
VOICE OVER: a day I 'll never forget . A bellowing male voice from offscreen
SHERIFF: Do n't forget the profile , Ed !
WOMAN: Turn to the right .
HI: What kind of name is Ed for a pretty thing like you ?
ED: Short for Edwinna . Turn to the right !
HI: You 're a flower , you are . Just a little desert flower .
HI: Lem me know how those come out .
VOICE OVER: I was in for writing hot checks which , when businessmen do it , is called an overdraft . I 'm not complainin ' , mind you ; just sayin ' there ai n't no pancake so thin it ai n't got two sides . Now prison life is very structured - more than most people care for
CON: Grrrr
VOICE OVER: or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive .
VOICE OVER: In an effort to better ourselves we were forced to meet with a counselo who tried to help us figure out why we were the way we were
COUNSELOR: Why do you use the word `` trapped '' ?
CON: Huh ?
COUNSELOR: Why do you say you feel `` trapped '' in a man 's body ?
CON: Oh
CHAIRMAN: Have you learned anything , Hi ?
HI: Yessir , you bet .
WOMAN: You would n't lie to us , would you Hi ?
HI: No ma'am , hope to say .
CHAIRMAN: Okay then .
VOICE OVER: I tried to stand up and fly straight , ut it was n't easy with that sumbitch Reagan in the White House
ED: Turn to the right !
HI: What 's the matter , Ed ?
ED: My fai-ants left me .
VOICE OVER: She said her fiance had run off with a student cosmetologist who knew how to ply her feminine wiles .
HI: That sumbitch .
VOICE OVER: I ca n't say I was happy to be back inside , but the flood of familia sights , sounds and faces almost made it feel like a homecoming .
CON: Grrrr
COUNSELOR: Most men your age , Hi , are getting married and raising up a family . They would n't accept prison as a substitute . Hi looks sheepish .
GALE: But sometimes your career got ta come efore family .
EVELLE: Work is what 's kept us happy .
VOICE OVER: I tried to sort through what the Doc had said , but prison ai n't the easiest place to think .
MOSES: An ' when they was no meat we ate fowl . An ' when they was no fowl we ate crawdad . An ' when they was no crawdad to be foun ' , we ate San ' .
HI: You ate what ?
MOSES: We ate San ' .
HI: You ate sand ? !
MOSES: Dass right
CHAIRMAN: Well Boy , you done served your twenty munce , and seeing as you never use live ammo , we got no choice but to eturn you to society .
SECOND MAN: These doors goan swing wide .
HI: I did n't want to hurt anyone , Sir .
SECOND MAN: Hi , we respect that .
CHAIRMAN: But you 're just hurtin ' yourself with this rambunctious behavior .
HI: I know that , sir .
CHAIRMAN: Okay then .
VOICE OVER: Now I do n't know how you come down on the incarceration question
ED: Turn to the right !
VOICE OVER: They say that absence makes the heart grow fonder , and for once they may e right .
HI: You missed a spot . The Mopping Con turns to watch him recede .
CON: Grrrr
VOICE OVER: More and more my thoughts turned to Ed , and I finally felt the pain of imprisonment .
MOSES: An ' momma would frow the live crawdad in a pot of boiln ' water . Well one day I decided to make my own crawdad
VOICE OVER: an ' I frew it in a pot , forgettin ' to put in the water , ya see
VOICE OVER: But I could n't help thinking that a ighter future lay ahead - a future that was only eight to fourteen months away . Eyes closed , he is illuminated by a flash .
CHAIRMAN: Got a name for people like you , Hi . That name is called recidivism .
SECOND MAN: Ree-peat O-fender .
CHAIRMAN: Not a pretty name , is it , Hi ?
HI: No Sir , it sure ai n't . That 's one onehead name . But that ai n't me anymore .
CHAIRMAN: You 're not just tellin ' us what we wan na hear ?
HI: No Sir , no way .
SECOND MAN: 'Cause we just wan na hear the truth .
HI: Well then I guess I am tellin ' you what you wan na hear .
CHAIRMAN: Boy , did n't we just tell you not to do that ?
HI: Yessir .
CHAIRMAN: Okay then .
HI: I 'm walkin ' in here on my knees , Ed - a free man proposin ' . Hi cocks a finger at the suspect .
VOICE OVER: And so it was .
ED: I do .
HI: You bet I do .
MINISTER: Okay then .
VOICE OVER: Ed 's pa staked us to a starter home in suburban Tempe
BUD: So we was doin ' paramedical work in affiliation with the state highway system-not actually practicin ' , y'understand - and me and Bill 's patrollin ' down Nine Mile -
HI: Bill Roberts ?
BUD: No , not that motherscratcher ! Bill Parker ! Anyway , we 're approachin ' the wreck , and there 's a spherical object arestin ' on the highway
VOICE OVER: Mostways the job was a lot like prison , except Ed was waitin ' at the end of every day
VOICE OVER: and a paycheck at the end of every week .
CASHIER: Gummint do take a bite , do n't she ?
VOICE OVER: These were the happy days , the salad days as they say
ED: That was beautiful .
VOICE OVER: So we worked at it on the days we calculated most likely to be fruitful
VOICE OVER: Seemed like nothing could stand in our way now
HI: It 's true I 've had a checkered past , ut Ed here is an officer of the law twice decorated
HI: So we figure it kind of evens out .
VOICE OVER: But biology and the prejudices of others conspired to keep us childless .
VOICE OVER: but I preminisced no return of the salad days .
VOICE OVER: The pizazz had gone out of our lives .
VOICE OVER: Ed lost all interest in both criminal justice and housekeeping . Soon after , she tendered her badge .
VOICE OVER: Even my job seemed as dry and bitte as a hot prairie wind .
BUD: So here comes Bill a-walkin ' down Nine Mile - that 's Bill Parker , y'understand - got his sandwich in one hand , the fuckin ' head in the other
VOICE OVER: I even caught myself drivin ' by convenience stores
VOICE OVER: By `` Arizona '' quints I mean they was orn to a woman named Florence Arizona .
NATHAN ARIZONA: So come on down to Unpainted Arizona for the finest selection in fixtures and appointments for your bathroom , edroom , beaudoir !
VOICE OVER: The owner of the largest chain of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixture outlets throughout the Southwest .
NATHAN ARIZONA: And if you can find lower prices anywhere my name ai n't Nathan Arizona !
VOICE OVER: Yep , Florence had been taking fertility pills , and she and Nathan had hit the jackpot .
VOICE OVER: With the benefit of hindsight maybe it was n't such a hot idea Hi gets in the car .
NATHAN: Eight hundred leaf tables and no chairs ? ! You ca n't sell leaf tables and no chairs ! Chairs , you got a dinette set ! No chairs , you got dick ! I ask my wife she got more sense !
VOICE OVER: Yeah , and if a frog had wings he would n't bump his ass a-hoppin ' ! I 'm sick of your excuses , Miles ! It is now
NATHAN: That sounds like Larry .
HI: Shhhh ! Shh ! Nice baby
NATHAN: What 're they , playing telephone ? They stare at the ceiling .
NATHAN: Why n't you go up and check on 'em ? They sound restless .
ED: What 's the matter ? ! Hi appears at her - the driver's-window .
HI: Sorry honey , it just did n't work out .
ED: What d'you mean it did n't work out ? !
HI: They started cryin ' , then they were all over me
ED: Course they cried ! Babies cry !
HI: I know that now ! Come on honey , we etter leave -
ED: You go right back up there and get me a toddler ! I need a baby , Hi ; they got more ' n they can handle !
HI: Aw honey I -
ED: Do n't you come back here without a aby !
NATHAN: Christian Dior my butt Florence enters .
FLORENCE: Yes dear .
NATHAN: How 're the kids ?
FLORENCE: Fine dear .
NATHAN: Fuckin ' kids , I love 'em .
ED: Which one ya get ? As he gets into the driver 's seat
HI: I dunno . Nathan Jr. , I think .
ED: Gim me here .
HI: Here 's the instructions .
ED: Oh , he 's beautiful ! Hi nods as he pulls away from the curb .
HI: He 's awful damn good . I think I got the best one .
ED: I bet they were all beautiful . All abies are beautiful !
HI: Yeah . This one 's awful damn good though .
ED: Do n't you cuss around him .
HI: He 's fine , he is . I think it 's Nathan Jr .
ED: We are doin ' the right thing , are n't we Hi ? - I mean , they had more ' n they could handle .
HI: Well now honey we been over this and over this . There 's what 's right and there 's what 's right , and never the twain shall meet .
ED: But you do n't think his momma 'll be upset ? I mean overly ?
HI: Well a course she 'll be upset , sugar , ut she 'll get over it . She 's got four little babies almost as good as this one . It 's like when I was robbin ' convenience stores - Ed suddenly bursts out crying .
ED: I love him so much !
HI: I know you do , honey .
ED: I love him so much !
HI: This is it young Nathan Jr. Just feast your eyes about , old boy !
ED: Do n't be so loud around him , Hi .
HI: Damn , I 'm sorry honey .
ED: And do n't you cuss around him .
HI: Aw , he do n't know a cuss word from shinola .
ED: Well see that he do n't .
HI: He 's all right , he is . He reaches for the child .
ED: He 's tired , Hi .
HI: Well we 'll just sit you right there , oy
ED: He 's a good boy .
HI: He ai n't too good ! You can tell by that twinkle in his eye !
ED: Do n't you think we should put him to ed ?
HI: Hang on , honey
ED: Just one , okay ?
HI: How come is that , honey ?
ED: Well we got a baby , Hi . It 's an awful ig responsibility . As he peers through the lens
HI: Honey , could ya slide over a tad and aise the nipper up ? As she complies
ED: I mean we never done this before and I 'm kinda nervous .
HI: You 're doin ' real good , sugar .
ED: I love you , Hi .
HI: We 're set to pop here , honey .
ED: You 're gon na help , are n't ya ?
HI: How 's that , honey ?
ED: Give Nathan Jr. a normal family ackground , just quiet evenings at home together We begin to hear distant thunder .
HI: You can count on it , honey .
ED: Everything decent ' n normal from here on out .
HI: Uh-huh .
EVELLE: Okay .
GALE: What is it ?
EVELLE: Mercury . Looks nice .
VOICE: Open up ! Hi starts awake with a grunt .
VOICE: Open up ! It 's a police !
ED: Hi ! What 's goin ' on ?
VOICE: Po-lice , son ! Open her up !
HI: Get in the bedroom .
ED: They ai n't gon na take Nathan ? !
HI: Well I 'd like to see 'em fly . As Ed turns back to the bedroom
VOICE: Open up and maybe we 'll letcha plea- argain .
HI'S VOICE: Honey ! Come on out here ! Want you to meet a couple friends of mine !
HI: Honey , like you to meet Gale and Evelle Snopes , fine a pair as eve oke and entered . Gale roars with laughter .
GALE: Ma'am .
EVELLE: Miz McDunnough . Ed smiles politely , then squints at Hi .
ED: Kind of late for visitors , is n't it Hi ?
HI: Well yeah honey , but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint . Got ta show a little hospitality . Gale is admiring the baby .
GALE: Well now H.I. , looks like you been up to the devil 's bidnis !
EVELLE: That a him or a her ?
ED: It 's a little boy .
GALE: Got a name , does he ?
HI: Well so far we just been using Junior .
ED: We call him Junior .
EVELLE: Say , thairs good - JR. , just like on the Teevee .
GALE: `` Welcome Home Son . '' Where 's he een ? Hi and Ed respond simultaneously
HI: Tulsa .
ED: Phoenix .
HI: He was , uh he was visiting his grandparents .
ED: They 're separated .
GALE: Was that yer folks ma'am ?
ED: No , I 'm afraid not .
GALE: I thought yer folks was dead , H.I . ?
HI: Well we thought Junior should see their final resting place - Why n't you boys have a seat ?
ED: Hi , it 's two in the morning She wrinkles her nose .
GALE: We do n't always smell like this , Miz McDunnough . I was just explainin ' to yer better half here that when we were tunneln ' out we hit the main sewer - dumb luck , that - and just followed that to -
ED: You mean you busted out of jail ! !
GALE: Waaaal
EVELLE: We released ourselves on our own ecognizance .
GALE: What Evelle means to say is , we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us . He is looking at the baby .
EVELLE: He 's a little outlaw , you can see that .
ED: Now listen , you folks ca n't stay here !
EVELLE: Ma'am ?
ED: You just ca n't stay ! I appreciate your bein ' friends of Hi and all , ut this is a decent family now She looks at Hi .
GALE: Say , who wears the pants round here
HI: Now honey -
ED: Do n't you honey me . Now you boys can set a while and catch up , and then you 'll be on your way .
GALE: Gotcha on a awful short leash , do n't she H.I . ?
ED: They still here ?
HI: Yeah , they 're just gon na stay a day or two . It 's raining out honey , they got nowhere to go .
ED: They 're fugitives , Hi Hi turns to face her .
HI: Well now honey you got ta have a little charity . Ya know , in Arab lands they 'd set out a plate -
ED: Promise just a day or two .
HI: Tonight and tomorrow , tops .
VOICE OVER: That night I had a dream .
VOICE OVER: I 'd drifted off thinkin ' about happiness , birth , and new life
VOICE OVER: But now I was haunted by a vision of -
VOICE OVER: for he was The Fury That Would Be
VOICE OVER: as soon as Florence Arizona found her little Nathan gone .
HI: He all right ?
ED: He 's all right . He was just havin ' a nightmare . Hi is getting out of bed .
HI: Yeah , well
HI: Sometimes it 's a hard world fo little things .
NATHAN: No , the missus and the rest of the kids 've left town to I ai n't sayin ' where . They 'll be back here when we 're a nuclear fam'ly again .
VOICE: Mr. Arizona , which tot was abducted ?
NATHAN: Nathan Jr. , I think .
VOICE: Do you have anything to say to the kidnappers ?
NATHAN: Yeah Watch yer butt .
VOICE: Sir , it 's been rumored that your son was abducted by UFOS . Would you care to comment ?
NATHAN: Now do n't print that , son . If his mama reads that she 's just gon na lose all hope .
POLICEMAN: We really have to ask you some more questions , sir
NATHAN: But remember , it 's still business as usual at Unpainted Arizona , and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name still ai n't Nathan Arizona !
POLICEMAN: Mr. Byrum here can take your exemplars while you talk .
BYRUM: Just let your hand relax ; I 'll do the work . Nathan jerks his hand away .
NATHAN: What is this ? ! I did n't steal the damn kid !
POLICEMAN: Sir , these men are from the FBI-
NATHAN: Are you boys crazy ? ! All I know is I wake up this morning with my wife screaming-
BYRUM: We just need to distinguish you prints from the perpetrators ' , if they left any . Giving his hand back
NATHAN: Course ! I know that !
FBI #1: Sir , we have an indication you were orn Nathan Huffhines ; is this correct ?
NATHAN: Yeah , I changed m'name ; what of it ?
FBI #2: Could you give us an indication why ?
NATHAN: Yeah , would you buy furniture at a store called Unpainted Huffhines ?
FBI #1: All right , I 'll get to the point-
UNIFORMED COP: Was the child wearing anything when he was abducted ?
NATHAN: No one sleeps nekkid in this house , oy ! He was wear-
FBI #1: I 'm asking the questions here , officer .
COP: If we 're gon na put out an APB we need a description of the -
NATHAN: He was wearin ' his-
FBI #2: It 's just that we 're better trained to intervene in crisis situations What was he wearing ?
NATHAN: A dinner jacket ! Wuddya think , he was wearing his damn jammies !
FBI #2: The child was wearing his jammies . Are you happy ?
FBI #1: Do you have any disgruntled employees ?
NATHAN: Hell , they 're all disgruntled ! I ai n't runnin ' a damn daisy farm !
COP: What did the pajamas-
NATHAN: My motto is do it my way or watch your butt !
COP: What did the pajamas-
FBI #1: So you think it might have been an employee ?
NATHAN: Do n't make me laugh . Without my say- so they do n't piss with their pants on fire .
COP: What did the pajamas look like ?
FBI #1: Officer-
NATHAN: I dunno , they were jammies ! They had Yodas ' n shit on 'em !
FBI #1: Ron , you 're upsetting the victim . Nathan is getting worked up .
NATHAN: Damnit , are you boys gon na go chase down your leads or are you gon na sit drinkin ' coffee in the one house in the state where I know my boy ai n't at ? !
FBI #2: Sir , there are n't any `` leads '' yet , aside from this coat-
NATHAN: Gim me that !
BYRUM: Sir , you might want to wash you hands at this point .
NATHAN: Well goddamnit !
EVELLE: Awful good cereal flakes , Miz McDunnough .
GALE: Whyncha breast feed him ? You 'pea to be capable .
ED: Mind your own bidnis . Through a mouthful of cornflakes
EVELLE: Ya do n't breast feed him , he 'll hate you for it later . That 's why we wound up in prison .
GALE: Anyway , that 's what Doc Schwartz tells us . Hi is walking in , yawning .
HI: Boys .
EVELLE: Morni ' , H.I .
ED: Hi .
HI: Oh yeah Say boys , you would n't mind makin ' yourself scarce for a couple hours this afternoon ?
ED: We 're havin ' some decent friends over .
HI: Heh-heh What Ed means to say is , seein ' as you two boys are wanted , it would n't exactly do to have folks seein ' you here - I mean for you own protection .
GALE: Sure H.I .
EVELLE: Anything you say . More relaxed now , to Ed
HI: Matter of fact honey , maybe I 'll skip this little get-together myself , Glen wo n't mind , and I 'll just duck out with the boys , knock back a couple of-uh , Co-Colas-
GALE: Sure H.I .
EVELLE: We 'd love to have ya .
HI: Well maybe that ai n't such a hot idea either . Gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling .
GALE: So many social engagements . So little time .
HI: Glen , Dot-
DOT: Where 's at baby ? Where 's he at ?
GLEN: Go find him honey !
DOT: Cut it out , Glen ! He reels under the blow .
ED: He 's asleep right now .
GLEN: Shit , I hope we did n't wake it !
DOT: Can I just sneak a peek-a-loo ?
GLEN: Come on kids
DOT: What 's his name ?
ED: Uh Hi Jr. Till we think of a bette one .
DOT: Whyncha call him Jason ? I love Biblical names . If I had anothe little boy I 'd name him Jason o Caleb or- Oh !
ED: Well-
DOT: You gon na send him to Arizona State ?
HI: Need a beer , Glen ?
GLEN: Does the Pope wear a funny hat ? Hi considers this .
HI: Well yeah , Glen , I guess it is kinda funny .
GLEN: Say , that reminds me ! How many Pollacks it take to screw up a lightbulb ?
HI: I do n't know Glen , one ? Hi looks down .
GLEN: Nope , it takes three ! He starts laughing , then catches himself .
HI: I do n't know , Glen .
GLEN: Cause they 're so durn stupid ! He laughs ; Hi does n't react .
HI: No Glen , I sure do n't .
GLEN: Shit man , think about it ! I guess it 's what they call a Way Homer .
HI: Why 's that ?
GLEN: Cause you only get it on the Way Home .
HI: I 'm already home , Glen .
KID: You wetchaself ! Mr. McDunnough wet hisseff , Daddy !
GLEN: Say , that reminds me ! How 'd you get that kid s'darned fast ? Me ' n Dottie went in to adopt on account of something went wrong with m'semen , and they told us five years ' wait for a healthy white baby ! I said healthy white baby ! Five years ! Okay , what else you got ? Said , two Koreans and one Negro born with the heart outside He takes a sip of beer .
HI: Someone oughta sell tickets .
GLEN: Sure , I 'd buy one .
HI: Well this whole thing is just who knows who and favoritism . Ed has a friend at one of the agencies .
GLEN: Well maybe she can do something fo me ' n Dot . See there 's something wrong with m'semen . Say , that reminds me ! What you gon na call him ?
HI: Uh , Ed-Ed Jr .
GLEN: Thought you said he was a boy .
HI: Well , as in Edward . Just like that name .
GLEN: Yeah , it 's a good one Course I do n't really need another kid , but Dottie says these-here are gettin ' too big to cuddle . Say , that reminds me !
DOT: and then there 's diphtheria- tetanus , what they call dip-tet . You got ta get him dip-tet boosters yearly or else he 'll get lockjaw and night vision . Then there 's the smallpox vaccine , chicken pox and measles , and if your kid 's like ours you got ta take all those shots first to get him to take 'em . Who 's you pediatrician , anyway ?
ED: We ai n't exactly fixed on one yet . Have we Hi ? Hi sits stock-still with a stony face .
DOT: Well you just got ta have one ! You just got ta have one this instant !
ED: Yeah , what if the baby gets sick , honey ?
DOT: Hi , even if he do n't get sick he 's got ta have his dip-tet !
ED: He 's got ta have his dip-tet , honey .
HI: Uh-huh .
DOT: You started his bank accounts ?
ED: Have we done that honey ? We got ta do that honey . What 's that for , Dot ?
DOT: That-there 's for his orthodonture and his college . You soak his thum in iodine you might get by without the orthodonture , but it wo n't knock any off the college . Hi sits stoically . Dot is looking offscreen
ED: You done that yet honey ?
DOT: You got ta do that , Hi ! Ed here 's got her hands full with that little angel !
HI: Yes ma'am .
DOT: What would Ed and the angel do if a truck came along and splattered you ains all over the interstate ? Where would you be then ?
ED: Yeah honey , what if you get run over ?
DOT: Or you got carried off by a twister ?
GLEN: Hear about the person of the Polish persuasion he walks into a bar holdin ' a pile of shit in his hands , says `` Look what I almost stepped in . ''
HI: Yeah , that 's funny all right
GLEN: Ya damn right it 's funny ! Shit man , what 's the matter ?
HI: I dunno maybe it 's wife , kids , family life I mean are you , uh , satisfied Glen ? Do n't y'ever feel suffocated ? Like , like there 's somethin ' big pressin ' down
GLEN: Eeeeeyep I do know the feelin ' . Hi shakes his head .
HI: Dunno-
GLEN: And I told Dottie to lose some weight ut she do n't wan na listen !
HI: Yeah Glen , I guess that 's it .
GLEN: Okay ! That 's the disease , but there is a cure .
HI: Yeah ?
GLEN: Sure ; Doctor Glen is tellin ' ya you can heal thyself .
HI: What do I got ta do ?
GLEN: Well you just got ta broaden you mind a little bit . I mean say I asked you , what do you think about Dot ?
HI: Fine woman you got there . Glen is eyeing him shrewdly .
GLEN: Okay . Now it might not look like it , ut lem me tell you something She 's a hellcat .
HI: That right ?
GLEN: T-I-G-E-R .
HI: But what 's that got to do with-
GLEN: Do n't rush me !
HI: Yeah ? Glen nods energetically
GLEN: I 'm crappin ' you negative ! And I could say the same about Ed ! Through tightly clenched teeth
HI: What 're you talkin ' about , Glen ?
GLEN: What 'm I talkin ' about ? ! I 'm talkin ' about sex , boy ! What the hell 're you talkin ' about ? ! You know , `` L'amour '' ? ! I 'm talkin ' me ' n Dot are Swingers ! As in `` to Swing '' ! Wife-swappin ' ! What they call nowadays Open Marriage !
HI: Keep your goddamned hands off my wife !
GLEN: Shit man ! He is scrambling to his feet .
HI: Keep your goddamned hands off my wife ! With Hi still advancing , Glen starts to run .
GLEN: You 're crazy ! I feel pity for you , man ! You-
ED: We finally go out with some decent people and you break his nose . That ai n't too funny , Hi .
HI: His kids seemed to think it was funny .
ED: Well they 're just kids , you 're a grown man with responsibilities . Whatever possessed you ?
HI: He was provokin ' me when I popped him .
ED: How 'd he do that ?
HI: Never mind .
ED: But Hi , he 's your foreman , he 's just gon na fire you now .
HI: I expect he will .
ED: And where does that leave me and Nathan Jr. ?
HI: With a man for a husband .
ED: That ai n't no answer .
HI: Honey , that 's the only answer .
HI: I 'll be taking these Huggies and whatever cash you got .
ED: `` Not by the hair of my chinny-chin- chin . '' Then I 'll huff and I 'll puff '
ED: That son-of-a-bitch . She unstraps herself and gets out of the car .
HI: Better hurry it up . I 'm in dutch with the wife .
ED: That son-of-a-bitch . Hang on , pumpkin . The car squeals out of the lot .
HI: Honey !
SPEAKER: Halt . It 's a police warning , son . Put those groceries down and turn yourself in .
ED: That son of a bitch Hold on , Nathan . We 're gon na go pick up Daddy . She hangs a vicious U-turn .
SPEAKER: That 's private property , son . Come ack out to the street and reveal yourself to Officer Steensma and Officer Scott - that 's me .
ED: That son of a bitch
DRIVER: Son , you got a panty on your head .
HI: Just drive fast
HI: Mind the baby now ! Next to him , the Driver is screaming .
ED: Hold on Nathan , we 'll take a shortcut . She gives the wheel a hard right turn .
SCREAMER: Can I stop now ? Hi looks forward .
HI: Maybe you better .
HI: Thank you honey , you really did n't have to do this-
ED: You son-of-a-bitch ! You 're actin ' like a mad dog ! Rubbing his jaw
HI: Turn left , honey .
ED: What if me ' n the baby 'd been picked up ? Nathan Jr. would a been accessory to armed robbery !
HI: Nawww honey , it ai n't armed robbery if the gun ai n't loaded-
ED: What kind of home life is this for a toddler ? ! You 're supposed to be an example !
HI: Now honey , I never postured myself as the three-piece suit type - Turn left , dear .
ED: We got a child now , everything 's changed !
HI: Well Nathan Jr. accepts me for what I am and I think you better had , too . You know , honey , I 'm okay you 're okay ? That - there 's what it is .
ED: I know , but honey -
HI: See I come from a long line of frontiersmen and - here it is , turn here dear - frontiersmen and outdoo types .
ED: I 'm not gon na live this way , Hi . It just ai n't family life !
HI: Well It ai n't Ozzie and Harriet .
ED: You two are leaving .
GALE: Well ma'am we sure did n't mean to influence anyone .
EVELLE: And if we did , we apologize . Ed is unmoved .
ED: I 'm goin ' in to town tomorrow to see about some shots for the baby . When I come back you better be gone o I 'll kick you out myself .
EVELLE: What 's he need , his dip-tet ?
HI: I 'm awful sorry boys , but when Ed gets mad , you know , when she gets an idea
GALE: Well there ai n't a thing to apologize for , H.I He looks at Evelle .
EVELLE: Yeah , I guess the Missus wants us to clear out .
GALE: Now H.I. , you 'll pardon me for sayin ' so , but I get the feelin ' that this- here
HI: Well now Ed 's generally a real sweetheart , I-
GALE: And as per usual , I would n't be surprised if the source of the marital friction was financial .
HI: Well , matter of fact , I did lose my job today-
EVELLE: Come on Hi . you 're young , you got your health - what do you want with a job ?
GALE: But look , I 'd rather light a candle than curse your darkness . As you know , Evelle ' n I never go anywhere without a reason and here we are in your little domicile . We come to invite you in on a score .
EVELLE: A bank , Hi . Hi is shaking his head .
HI: Aw boys , I don't-
GALE: I know you 're partial to convenience stores but , H.I. , the sun do n't rise and set on the corner grocery .
EVELLE: It 's like Doc Schwartz says You got ta have a little ambition . Why we just heard on the news how somebody snatched off one of the Arizona abies . Now there 's someone thinkin ' ig .
GALE: And here you are sittin ' around on your butt playin ' house with a - do n't get me wrong , H.I. , with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type .
HI: Well now that ai n't really any of your-
GALE: Just lookahere He is handing Hi a folded-up picture .
EVELLE: Picture of El Dorado , Hi .
GALE: Though the locals call it the Farmers and Mechanics Bank of LaGrange . Looks like a hayseed bank and , tell you the truth , it is a hayseed bank . Except the last Friday of every financial quarter there 's more cash in that bank than flies at a barbecue .
EVELLE: And guess what day it is tomorrow ?
GALE: Ya see , H.I. , it 's when the hayseeds come in to cash their farm subsidy checks .
EVELLE: A-One information .
GALE: Got it in the joint from a guy named Lawrence Spivey , one of Dick Nixon 's undersecretaries of agriculture .
EVELLE: He 's in for solicitin ' sex from a state trooper .
GALE: Ordinarily we do n't associate with that class of person , but Gale chuckles .
HI: Boys , I ca n't -
EVIELLE: We need someone handy with a scatter- gun to cover the hayseeds while we get the cash .
GALE: Y'understand , H.I. , if this works out it 's just the beginning of a spree across the entire Southwest proper . We keep goin ' 'till we can etire - or we get caught .
EVELLE: Either way we 're fixed for life . Hi is still shaking his head .
HI: Boys , it 's a kind offer , but you 're suggesting I just up ' n leave Ed . Now that 'd be pretty damn cowardly , would n't it .
GALE: Would it ? Think about it , H.I . Seems to me , stayin ' here , y'ai n't doin ' her any good . And y'ai n't bein ' true to your own nature .
VOICE OVER: My dearest Edwinna . Tonight as you and Nathan slumber , my heart is filled with anguish .
VOICE OVER: I will never be the man that you want me to be , the husband and fathe that you and Nathan deserve
VOICE OVER: I say all this to my shame .
VOICE OVER: I will love you always , truly and deeply . But I fear that if I stay I would only bring bad trouble
VOICE OVER: I feel the thunder gathering even now ; if I leave , hopefully , it will leave with me .
SECRETARY'S VOICE: I 'm sorry , Mr. Arizona , he just barged in
NATHAN: Hell no , why wake the security guard . I 'll take care a this . The secretary leaves .
BIKER: You got flies .
NATHAN: I doubt it . This place 's climate- controlled , all the windows are sealed . Who the hell are you ?
BIKER: Name of Leonard Smalls . My friends call me Lenny He takes a drag on his cigar .
NATHAN: Stop , you 'll make me bust out crying . Listen Leonard , you want some furniture or a shitbox , they 're out on the sales floor . SMALLS is pleasantly shaking his head .
SMALLS: Nooo , I ai n't a customer , I 'm a manhunter . Ordinarily . Though I do hunt babies , on occasion . Hear you got one you ca n't put your hand to .
NATHAN: What do you know about it ?
SMALLS: Wal , that 's my business . I 'm a tracker- part Hopi Indian , some say part hound dog . When some dink skips bail , crashes outta the joint , I 'm the man they call .
NATHAN: Mister , I got the cops , the state troopers and the Federal-B-I already lookin ' for my boy . Now if you got information I strongly advise-
SMALLS: Cop wo n't find your boy . Cop could n't find his own butt if it had a bell on it . Wan na find an outlaw , call an outlaw . Wan na find a Dunkin Donuts , call a cop .
NATHAN: Smalls , first off , take your damn feet off m'furniture . Second off , it 's widely known I posted a twenty grand reward for my boy . If you can find him , claim it . Short of that what do we got to talk about ?
SMALLS: Price . Fair price . And that ai n't whatever you say it is ; fair price is what the market 'll bear . Now there are people , mind you , there are people in this land , who 'll pay a lot more ' n twenty grand for a healthy baby . Nathan is looking at him stonily .
NATHAN: What 're you after ?
SMALLS: Give you an idea , when I was a lad I m'self fetched twenty-five thousand on the black market . And them 's 1954 dollars . I 'm sayin , fair price . Fo fifty grand I 'll track him , find him-
NATHAN: And if I do n't pay ?
SMALLS: Oh I 'll get your boy regardless . Cause if you do n't pay , the market will .
NATHAN: You wan na know what I think ? I think you 're an evil man . I think this is nothin ' but a goddamn screw job . I think it 's a shakedown . I think you 're the one took Nathan Jr. and my fine friend , I think you 're the one gon na get his butt kicked
EVELLE: Come on , the missus 'll be back from town soon .
HI: Where 's the baby ?
EVELLE: Bedroom , in his crib .
GALE: He 's sawin ' toothpicks , he 'll be fine .
HI: No . You two stay outta sight .
GLEN: I ai n't comin ' in if ya do n't mind . I 'll just keep my distance .
HI: I did n't invite you in , Glen .
GLEN: Well do n't even bother . First off , you 're fired - and that 's official .
HI: I kinda figured that , Glen .
GLEN: Well that ai n't why I 'm here neither . No sir . You 're in a whole shitload of trouble , my friend . Hi is looking at him evenly .
HI: Why do n't you just calm down , Glen .
GLEN: Why do n't you make me ? ! Know that little baby you got in there ? Remembe him ? I know what his real name is ! Hi is suddenly nervous and urgent
HI: Wan na keep your voice down , Glen ?
GLEN: I 'll pitch my voice wherever I please ! His name ai n't Hi Jr. ! His name ai n't Ed Jr. ! But it 's junior an right ! Yes sir , it 's Nathan Jr. !
HI: I ai n't a big man .
GLEN: That 's right ! And now you 're at my mercy ! He spits on the dirt in front of him .
HI: What 's goin ' on here . Gale steps in front of Hi .
GALE: You know what 's goin ' on , H.I . It 's just business . Now this can go eithe hard or easy-
ED: Good .
HI: I know you 're worried honey but elieve me , there ai n't a thing to worry about . We 're gon na get him ack , there just ai n't no question about that
GALE: I luuuuv to drive .
EVELLE: You said somethin ' there , partner .
GALE: Yessir , I figure with the ransom and this bank , you ' n I 'll be sittin ' in the fabled catbird seat .
EVELLE: Uh , Gale Junior had a , uh , accident .
GALE: What 's that , pardner ?
EVELLE: He had a little accident . Gale looks over .
GALE: Wuddya mean , he looks okay .
EVELLE: No , ya see Movin ' though we are , he just had hisself a rest stop .
GALE: Well it 's perfectly natural .
EVELLE: Hey Gale !
GALE: What now ?
EVELLE: He smiled at me !
CASHIER: Welp . Around the butt , then up ove the groin area-
EVELLE: I know where they go , old timer . I mean do I need pins or fasteners ?
CASHIER: Well no , they got those tape-ettes already on there , it 's self-contained and fairly explanatory .
EVELLE: Uh-huh
CASHIER: Well no . Unless round is funny . Evelle is pulling a gun out of his belt .
EVELLE: All right , I 'll take these too . Now you lie down back there-
CASHIER: Yessir !
EVELLE: And do n't you move till you 've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero . I 'll be back to check - see y'ai n't cheatin ' .
GALE: He 's a real cheerful little critte once he warms up to ya .
EVELLE: Hurry up Gale
GALE: They blow up into funny shapes at all ?
EVELLE: No , just- Gale is looking around , puzzled .
GALE: Say , where 's Junior ?
EVELLE: Wuddya mean , did n't you put him in ? !
GALE: No , I thought- The two men look at each other .
GALE: Where 'd we leave him ? !
EVELLE: NOOOOOO ! !
CASHIER: Seven hunnert ninety-seven one thousand , seven hunnert ninety-six one thousand
EVELLE: Promise we ai n't never gon na give him up , Gale ! We ai n't never gon na let him go !
GALE: We 'll never give him up , Evelle . He 's our little Gale Jr. now .
HI: Ed , I realize I ca n't be much of a comfort to you . But lem me just say this He is nodding to himself .
ED: I do n't wan na feel better .
HI: Honey-
ED: I do n't care about myself anymore . I do n't care about us anymore . I just want Nathan Junior back safe .
HI: I know that-
ED: If we do n't get him back safe , I do n't wan na go on livin ' . And even if we do , I do n't wan na go on livin ' with you . This shuts Hi up . After a moment
HI: Well , factually , I myself bear a very large-
ED: Lem me finish . Since those jailbirds took little Nathan I been doin ' some thinking , and I ai n't too proud of myself . Even if Mrs. Arizona had more ' n she could handle , I was a police officer sworn to uphold the Constitution of the United States -
HI: Now waitaminute honey , you resigned efore we-
ED: That ai n't the point , Hi . We do n't deserve Nathan Jr. Any more ' n those jailbirds do . And if I 'm as selfish and irresponsible as you-
HI: Y'ai n't that bad , honey .
ED: If I 'm as bad as you , what good 're we to each other . You ' n me 's just a fool 's paradise .
EVELLE: There she is .
GALE: Yep . Welp
EVELLE: Waitaminute . What do we do with Gale Jr. ?
GALE: Wuddya mean , he waits here .
EVELLE: Are you crazy ? ! He ca n't wait here y hisself . Supposin ' we get killed in there - it could be hours before he 's discovered .
GALE: All right you hayseeds , it 's a stick- up ! Everbody freeze ! Everbody down on the ground !
HAYSEED: Well which is it young fella ? You want I should freeze or get down on the ground ? Mean to say , iffen I freeze , I ca n't rightly drop . And iffen I drop , I 'm a gon na be in motion . Ya see -
GALE: SHUTUP !
HAYSEED: Yessir .
GALE: Everone down on the ground !
EVELLE: Y'all can just forget that part about freezin ' .
GALE: That is until they get down there .
EVELLE: Y'all hear that ?
GALE: Wan na fill that sack , pardner ? We got - shit !
VOICE: We 're down here , sir .
EVELLE: They 're down on the ground like you commanded , Gale .
GALE: I told you not to use m'damn name ! Ca n't you even try to keep from forget ' n that ? !
EVELLE: Not even yer code name ? Gale registers understanding .
GALE: Oh yeah m'code name .
EVELLE: Y'all hear that ?
GALE: All right now everone , we 're just about ready to begin the robbery proper
EVELLE: All right now everyone , you know how this works Y'all stay flattened fo ten full minutes
GALE: Anyone found bipedal in five wears his ass for a hat . They bolt out the door .
EVELLE: We done okay . Yessir . This ought to split nicely three ways .
GALE: Goddamnit ! Ya never leave a man ehind !
GALE: Goddamnit H.I. , ai n't we got enough to contend with ?
ED: Where 's the baby ?
EVELLE: I think we left him on the roof of the he must be back at the Hi and Ed are climbing into their car .
GALE: Let us come with you ! Hi and Ed are already peeling out .
ED: What is he ?
HI: D'you see him too ?
ED: I want that baby !
OLD TIMER: Just lie down on the floor , missie .
HI: Run along now , honey . Lenny is reaching back to throw his knife .
NATHAN: The hell is goin ' on ?
HI: Scuse me ? As he bounces the baby , studying Hi and Ed
NATHAN: Leonard Smalls , big fella rides a Harley , dresses like a rock star ?
HI: No sir , that 's who we saved him from . It 's a long story .
NATHAN: Suppose you tell it .
HI: Well , sir , in a re-ward situation , they usually say no questions asked .
NATHAN: Do they . Hi shrugs .
HI: Well- Nathan throws his hands up in the air .
NATHAN: But it 's up to you .
HI: Tell you the truth , I think we 'd prefer the ca-
ED: We do n't want no reward .
NATHAN: Well , we could work it that way too .
ED: Could I just look at him a little it more ?
NATHAN: Be my guest , young lady but would you mind tellin ' me exactly how you-
HI: I took him , sir , my wife had nothin ' to do with it . I crept in yon window and-
ED: We both did it . We did n't wan na hurt him any ; I just wanted to be a mama .
HI: It was n't for money or nothin ' . We just figured you had more ' n you could handle , babywise . But I 'm the one committed the actual crime sir , if you need to call the authorities-
NATHAN: Shutup boy , no one 's callin ' the authorities if there 's no harm done .
HI: Thank you sir .
ED: Thank you sir .
NATHAN: Aw bullshit . Just tell me - just tell me why you did it .
ED: We ca n't have our own .
NATHAN: Well lookit . If you ca n't have kids you got ta just keep tryin ' and hope medical science catches up with you . Like Florence ' n me - it caught up with a vengeance . And hell , even if it never does , you still got each other .
HI: Sir , those 're kind words . But I think the wife and me are splittin ' up He indicates Ed with a nod of the head .
NATHAN: Well ma'am , I do n't know much but I do know human bein 's . You brought ack my boy so you must have you good points too . I 'd sure hate to think of Florence leavin ' me - I do love her so
VOICE OVER: That night I had a dream
VOICE OVER: And this was cloudier 'cause it was years , years away .
DAVE WILKIE: Buddd-dee ! My God , if it ai n't Buddy ! Well , if this ai n't the darnest thing !
WILLCOX HILLYER: Excuse me your voice is familia and I 'm sure I know you from somewhere
DAVE WILKIE: Awww-rr , Buddy , come on , you know me !
WILLCOX HILLYER: Well , I I ah-h , let 's see
DAVE WILKIE: It 's Dave Wilkie ! I 'm Dave Wilkie , do n't you remember me ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Oh . Oh , God . Of course , Dave , how are you ?
DAVE WILKIE: Well , I am in the construction usiness , Buddy , and without aggin ' I have done real good at it . There are those who would n't have expected that out of me . Right now I 'm buildin ' a giant motel unit near Alexandria , outside Washington , D.C. Not fi-nance , I 'm on the construction side .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Well , that 's interesting , Dave . I always liked Washington , it 's a pretty town .
DAVE WILKIE: Oh , it 's all right , beats Jew York . But the niggers have took it over , just like every other city we got , only worse .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Galley proof .
DAVE WILKIE: Galley what ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Page proof of a book I 'm working on .
DAVE WILKIE: How about that . Well , you always were a screwball .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Oh , yeah ?
DAVE WILKIE: I do n't mean that the way it sounds . Imagine it , a book . And I used to know you personal way back when . Tell me something , Buddy , how do you dream up all that stuff ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Well , actually , we have a little lack boy named Her-t who lives in the garage . He does it for me .
DAVE WILKIE: Heh heh heh heh , same old Buddy , always jokin ' around . Almost as much of a joker as your Daddy . I saw your Daddy a coupla years ago , I was up in Glenville lookin ' at a motel site . I guess that 's where you 're headed , huh , to see him ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: That 's right , Dave , I 'm headed fo Glenville on a whisperin ' jet .
DAVE WILKIE: Hey , girl ! Hey , you , give us another drink ! Dumb little bitch , supposed to give us two in the first place .
WILLCOX HILLYER: She has other things to do , Dave . Willcox smiles apologetically at girl .
DAVE WILKIE: Supposed to get two drinks in the first place . This friggin ' airline ca n't do nothin ' right .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Tell me about that job in Alexandria , Dave , the big motel you 're building .
DAVE WILKIE: Near Alexandria . It is n't in Alexandria , it is outside it .
WILLCOX HILLYER: I see . Outside it .
DAVE WILKIE: That 's correct outside it , not in it . As for the job , well , the Jewboy suppliers give me a lot of grief and we use a pile of niggers to haul and tote and they ai n't worth a sorry-ass damn . But I can build anything , Buddy . Give me the plans and I can build a goddamn staircase to the moon . It 's a fact , I can build anything but she never believed that . Oh , hell , no , she never believed in me .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Um-m , well
DAVE WILKIE: Doubted my ability all along , the little bitch . I never remarried , Buddy , you know that , do n't you ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Well , no , I did n't actually .
DAVE WILKIE: She 's te reason cured me of women once and for all . Oh , I got id of her , Buddy , I did n't waste no time kickin ' that bitch out . Hell , she was screwin ' everybody in Savannah . I caught her in a motel with this long tall son of a bitch and boy did I beat the everlastin ' piss out of him !
WILLCOX HILLYER: Dave , you are as full of shit as a Christmas turkey and you know it . Now if you want to start a fight on this plane and get yourself in jail , go right ahead . But I am telling you , you are full of shit ight up to your eyeballs .
DAVE WILKIE: I do n't want to start no fight with you , Buddy . Why do you say I 'm full of shit ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Dave Schapiro is no horse docto and Rose has been a good wife to him for a long time . To call her a nymphomaniac is the most stupid thing I ever heard in my life .
DAVE WILKIE: You loved her , did n't you . Well , so did I . You 'll have to admit she had fou husbands .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Yeah , it took her a while to grow up and find Mr . Right , but she did it . She found him .
DAVE WILKIE: She used to call me Mr . Right . Remember that , Buddy ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Yeah , I remember it .
DAVE WILKIE: Well , I tell you , I do n't know what the world 's come to these days . Things used to be better . We did n't have any money , but things were etter . Goddamn niggers and kikes burning the flag , rioting , raising hell they ought to shoot their asses off . I tell you , Buddy , where this country made its mistake was allowing people without property to vote .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Yeah , I 'll do that , Dave .
DAVE WILKIE: Ah-h , if you happen to run into Rose sometime do me a favor , give her a message for me , will you ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Dave , I have n't seen Rose fo years .
DAVE WILKIE: Buddy , I 'm a sick man . I had a heart attack last year , I was n't expected to live .
WILLCOX HILLYER: What do you want me to tell her , Dave ?
DAVE WILKIE: Oh , to hell with it , never mind . Do n't tell her anything . Do n't even tell her you saw me . Got to run , Buddy , I 'll miss my plane .
WILLCOX HILLYER: He still loves her . The poor damn fool still loves her .
HERTZ GIRL: Who was she ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: A girl named Rose . Still take R75 to Glenville ?
HERTZ GIRL: Yes , sir .
ROSE: Hello . I 'm Rose , and I 've come to live with you and your family .
BUDDY: Lots of things . Buddy , mostly .
ROSE: Buddy . Well , now , that 's a nice name , I like it . I am real pleased to meet you . Hey , look , do you think you got a cold drink of ice water somewhere ?
BUDDY: Sure . Let me take your suitcase .
ROSE: You 're sweet .
BUDDY: The new girl is here .
MOTHER: Wonderful . What 's she like , Brother ? What is your impression of her ?
BUDDY: She talks a great deal and smiles a lot . She 's very pretty , she has a eal good figure . She 's very girlish or womanish , if you know what I mean . She would n't hurt anybody , this girl . She could n't .
MOTHER: Your impression is very reassuring , Brother . Of course she 's had troubles , poor thing , but I sensed that was that the girl was like and I 'm glad to have it reconfirmed .
BUDDY: You mean confirmed , Mother . I did n't confirm it before . I would have had to confirm it previously , in order for it to be reconfirmed .
MOTHER: All right , all right . Doll and Waski are upstairs taking thei nap , you go get them and bring them down to the living room . Where is the girl ?
BUDDY: In the kitchen drinking all the ice water in Glenville . She walked out here , she did n't go by the hotel .
MOTHER: Walked , in all that heat ? It 's a wonder she has n't got sunstroke . I 'll phone Daddy and you go get Doll Baby and Waski .
WASKI: You can stop it right now .
MOTHER: When he was baby we called him `` Wa Wa , '' a baby name , you know . You will find him a very good boy . His other can be bad and so can his sister , but Waski is a very good oy . And as you can see he 's eautiful .
WASKI: Oh , Mother , cut it out .
MOTHER: There are plenty of girls who would give thousands of dollars to have your auburn hair . Beauty is beauty and that 's all there is to it . Beauty is there and we have to ecognize it . Now Rose , the little girl sitting across from you with the blue eyes is Doll Baby . She looks like an angel and she is an angel , but she can be a naughty angel sometimes , although he father wo n't believe it . Her real name is Frances , but we call he Dolly or Doll .
DOLL: I do n't like that , either , it 's worse than Waski . I want to be called Fran .
MOTHER: Daddy would n't hear that . Now the edhaired boy you see sitting there , of course you have met him , he is my oldest son and my most illiant child . All children have great creative powers , but I do n't want to rattle on about my children , they say I brag too much about them , especially about Brother . Am I boring you , Rose ?
ROSE: Oh , no , ma'am .
MOTHER: Well , it 's rather interesting about Brother , actually . I realized the emarkable thing he had when he was six weeks old . He looked at me and understood me , he knew exactly who I was . I know it sounds crazy but it 's true . He 's very remarkable , he was born for the ministry and could move millions , but he does n't know that yet . I have to warn you about him , he can be very dangerous , there is an evil streak in him , a streak of pure sheer meanness . But at heart Brother is saintly and that is why he was born for the ministry even if he does n't know it .
DADDY'S VOICE: Honey , you 'll scare the gizzard out of the girl going into the fourth dimension like that .
MOTHER: It is n't the fourth dimension . To you it 's the fourth dimension , maybe , to me it 's simply the truth .
DADDY: Well , well , well . So Miss Rosebud has arrived . Un-hmm . And you 're all assembled here . Yes , indeed . Un hmmm .
ROSE: Yes , sir .
DADDY: All right . Now as head of this household I have a couple of emarks to make . It is my dea wife 's belief , which I accept although I do not totally grasp it , that to hire a person to do household work is a criminal practice . Therefore , you are here not as a servant , you are here as a friend , as a guest and hopefully as a member of this family . You will eat your meals with us , you will share life itself with us in love and harmony , dear Rosebud , in love and harmony . Do you understand me ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
DADDY: Now , I know you 've had some troubles in your life , those scoundrels in Birmingham and so forth trying to lead you astray . I hope you find a safe haven here , honey , I know you 've had a hard time . Life can be cruel to a young girl all alone . We welcome you to our home , Rosebud , we all welcome you from the heart and hope you are happy here .
ROSE: Yes , sir .
BUDDY: Rose , who were those scoundrels in Birmingham ?
ROSE: Nobody .
BUDDY: But who were they ?
ROSE: They were just bad men , that 's all .
BUDDY: In what sense were they bad ?
ROSE: Bad is bad , Buddy . There ai n't no sense to it .
BUDDY: Did they try to induce you to ecome a prostitute ?
ROSE: I do n't answer talk like that , Buddy . I just do n't hear it , I turn my back and look away . Rose turns her back on him .
BUDDY: Was that what they tried to do ? Was that why Daddy gave you the job , to save you from those scoundrels ?
ROSE: Your Daddy is a wonderful man , I 'll say that . He 's the best and most kind-hearted man in the world .
BUDDY: Hey , Rose , did you hear about that terrible thing down in Cave Springs ?
ROSE: What terrible thing in Cave Springs ?
BUDDY: There was this old man that ate his niece .
ROSE: I did n't hear you . I did n't hea that .
BUDDY: He really did , he ate his little niece . He made pork chops out of her .
ROSE: I do n't hear you . I just turn my ack on that kind of talk and look away .
BUDDY: Well , it 's only the truth . There are horrible things in the world , Rose .
ROSE: Buddy , you are in one of your evil moods , I do n't want to talk to you . I 'm going out and sweep the patio .
BUDDY: Rose is almost as sentimental as Mother . If there 's one thing I ca n't stand it 's sentimentality . In Chattanooga this man committed an almost perfect murder . He killed his wife with a black widow spider .
DOLL: Oh , shut up , Buddy .
WASKI: Yeah , shut up .
ROSE: What are you studying now , Mrs. Hillyer ?
MOTHER: More history , Rose .
ROSE: Are you going to get your degree soon ?
MOTHER: Well , I am working on my thesis .
ROSE: It must be wonderful to be so smart . I do n't see how you do it , eading all those books , learning all that stuff .
MOTHER: Rose , you work too hard . Why do n't you go sit down somewhere and drink a Co-Cola ?
ROSE: You 're so sweet . Rose again busily sweeps .
MOTHER: Really , why do n't you go sit down somewhere ?
ROSE: I like to work . I do n't mind work . It 's the least I can do after all you and Mr. Hillyer have done fo me . You 're so sweet . There never was nobody like you .
MOTHER: Well , you run on now .
ROSE: Yes , Ma'am .
DADDY: Good morning , sweetheart . Beautiful day .
MOTHER: Yes , it 's so nice I thought I 'd work outside .
DADDY: How goes it , darlin ' ?
MOTHER: Slow , hon . But at least I can concentrate now that Rose is here .
DADDY: What do you think of her , honey ?
MOTHER: What ?
DADDY: Your hearing aid , it 's buzzing at me like a snake .
MOTHER: Oh . Did you say something ?
DADDY: I asked you what you think of Rosebud , now that she 's been here a while .
MOTHER: Honey , she 's perfect . She works all the time and she 's wonderful with the children . And they love her , even Brother likes her though he wo n't admit it . I think she 's just perfect .
DADDY: Um-hmm . Almost too perfect .
MOTHER: And she 's such a good-hearted thing , there is n't an ounce of harm or malice in her .
DADDY: Well , I 'll admit I do n't see any flies on her yet .
MOTHER: There are no flies on Rose , I do n't know what you 're talking about .
DADDY: Well , she must have done something to encourage those scoundrels in Birmingham , even if she did run away from them .
MOTHER'S VOICE: If you mean boys and men , I do n't think so . Rose seems very calm about all of that .
DADDY'S VOICE: Well , so far I have to agree . She seems calm as lettuce .
BUDDY: Daddy says Rose is calm as lettuce . Do you believe that , Doll ?
DOLL: No .
WASKI: Neither do I .
BUDDY: Oh , Waski , you do n't even know what we 're talking about .
WASKI: I do , too . Buddy turns , looks back out the window .
DADDY: Well , let 's hope for the best , darlin ' .
MOTHER: Hope for the best ? I do n't understand all this skepticism . I thought you liked Rose .
DADDY: I love Rosebud , I am wild about Rosebud . I just hope she does n't turn out to be a hidden hotcha character , that 's all . We have growing children in the house .
MOTHER: Hotcha character . If I had to live with your cynicism , I would n't want to live at all . What you ca n't understand is that the creative forces of the universe are positive , not negative .
DADDY: All right , darlin ' , do n't go off into the fourth dimension .
MOTHER: I 'm not in the fourth dimension you are in the fourth dimension , when you allow skepticism and doubt to take control . As Blake said , if God had doubt the sun would go out .
DADDY: Forgive my crudity , darlin ' . I do n't understand these deepe things the way you do .
MOTHER: Be nice to Rose . She 's never had a eal home .
DADDY: You 're a wonderful woman , darlin ' . As long as you 're around , I 'm sure the sun would n't dare go out .
BUDDY: It 's pitiful . Neither one of them know .
DOLL: I think Daddy suspects .
BUDDY: No , he does n't . Not really .
DOLL: She 's watching the car again ?
BUDDY: Yeah .
DOLL: I get so irritated with Daddy . He 's so dumb sometimes .
WASKI: Yeah , I know .
BUDDY: Oh , Waski , you do n't know anything .
WASKI: I do , too !
BUDDY: All right , what do you know ?
WASKI: Rose is madly in love with Daddy
DOLL: Well , do n't tell Mother .
WASKI: Do you think I 'm crazy ?
DADDY: Rosebaby Blossom , these are the most delicious candied yams I eve ate ! Why , they just melt in my mouth . And this fried chicken is fit for a king . How do you do it , Peachbird ? What is the secret of your art , Plum Blossom , huh ?
ROSE: Oh , I do n't know , I I
DADDY: Rosebird Baby , you are the light of my life , darlin ' . How did we eve get by without you ?
ROSE: I I 'll get the grits .
MOTHER: Rose does have a gift for cooking . She learns so fast , but mainly I think it 's that she tries so hard .
ROSE: No , ma'am , I 'm just fine .
MOTHER: You look sick if you ask me . I hate to leave you with the dishes and all , but I 'm supposed to go to a meeting of the Garden Club this evening . I 'll need the car keys .
DADDY: I 'll drive you , darlin ' . You 've got no business behind the wheel of an automobile . You do n't think about what you 're doing and you 'll run into a telephone pole .
MOTHER: I think about what I 'm doing all the time , and I 've got as much usiness behind the wheel of an automobile as anybody . Besides , I want you to stay and help Rose with the dishes , the poor girl is n't feeling well .
DADDY: All right , darlin ' .
BUDDY: There goes Mother .
DOLL: Yeah .
BUDDY: Let 's go peep from the living room .
DOLL: Okay .
BUDDY: At least .
DADDY: Ehh , Lord , should have bought that stock when we had some money . A thousand millionaires .
ROSE: Oh , oh ! Oh , Mr. Hillyer , I love you , I love you so much ! I 've tried , but I ca n't help it ! Please kiss me will you kiss me ?
DADDY: Ahh-hem ! Now , Rose , get off my lap . What are you doing , girl ? Are you crazy ?
ROSE: Yes , crazy about you ! Kiss me , Mr. Hillyer !
DADDY: Why , I 'm not going to kiss you , you crazy girl . Now I 'm telling you again , get off my lap . Come on , Rose , get up . Now you get up , I say , and stop this !
ROSE: No , no ! You do n't understand , I love you ! It 's real love and I ca n't help it ! Please kiss me , Mr. Hillyer , I love you , I love you so much
DADDY: All right , all right . Now calm down , Rose , the children will hea you . Calm down , let 's talk about this thing , let 's discuss it .
ROSE: Do n't make me me me get up !
DADDY: Calm down , Rose , let 's calm down and discuss it
DOLL: I ca n't see . What are they doing , what 's happening ?
BUDDY: They 're discussing it .
DOLL: I ca n't see , let me see
BUDDY: This is my place and you ca n't have it .
DOLL: Ohhh-hh what 's happening now ?
BUDDY: He 's trying to get up good God , one of her titties is out !
DOLL: Let me see !
BUDDY: Now I ca n't see . What are they doing ?
DOLL: Boy ! Wow !
BUDDY: What are they doing ?
DOLL: Buddy , this is amazing , you would n't believe it .
BUDDY: What are they doing , Doll ?
DOLL: He kissed her .
BUDDY: Is that all ?
DOLL: He had his hand on her titty .
BUDDY: Let me look . Aww-rr
DADDY: All right , that is enough of this nonsense , and I mean enough ! Get up off this floor , Rose , and put you damned tit back in your dress ! Do you hear me , girl , get up off of that floor !
ROSE: Ohh-hhh ohh
BUDDY: She 's putting the titty back .
DOLL: Buddy , that was my place .
DADDY: Goddamn you , girl ! You 've made me make a fool out of myself , damn your hide , but let me tell you I am standing at the pass of Thermopylae and I wo n't budge ! The very idea , my own home with children in the house , to say nothing of my wife oh-h , you had better believe I am standing at Thermopylae , you little nut , you had better believe it ! What are you , crazy ? A man is supposed to be a fool like this , ut a woman is supposed to have some control and sense ! Are you a nitwit ? What 's the matter with you ?
ROSE: Oh-h , I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry , Mr. Hillyer I just could n't help myself . I 'm sorry
DOLL: Buddy , that was pretty snotty of you , pushing me away like that just when it was interesting .
BUDDY: You should n't watch such things , Doll .
DADDY: Rose , Rose , Rose , you poo miserable little child , do n't you know I love you ? Do I have to put my hand on your body or kiss you pretty lips to prove it ? You are eautiful to me , Rose , I 've loved you since you first came here , darlin ' . And do n't you know Mrs. Hillyer loves you , too , that she 's already taken you into her heart , and that that woman 's heart is as wide as the blue sky itself and as deep as the stars ?
ROSE: Oh , I know . She 's so sweet , she 's een so good to me
DADDY: Do you know what a friend you have got there ? Do you know she would fight for you like a tiger , that she would fly to your defense in an instant with all the courage in he soul if anyone tried to hurt you ? Is this any way to repay her trust and love ? Are you ashamed as I am ashamed ? Do n't cry , honey , do n't cry . But let me warn you , damn your hide , this is Thermopylae and I am standing here . Do you hear me , damn you . I am standing at Thermopylae and the Persians shall not pass ! Now get your tail out of here and go wash those dishes , and stop crying !
DOLL: Was n't Daddy wonderful ? He wanted to kiss her some more and play with her , but he did n't , because he loves Mother and all of us , and he loves Rose , too . Is n't he wonderful , is n't he great ?
BUDDY: Wonderful ? He kissed her and played with her titty , and I do n't see anything so great about that . He was probably afraid Mother would come back early and catch him .
DOLL: You know , Buddy , sometimes you make me sick .
BUDDY: Thermopylae . The Persians shall not pass .
ROSE: Buddy are you asleep ?
BUDDY: No , I 'm awake . What 's the matter ?
ROSE: Buddy , I am wandering in a wilderness , lost . I just feel awful . Do you mind if I get in bed with you for a little while ?
BUDDY: Well , all right .
ROSE: I thought I 'd go crazy back there in that room all by myself with nobody to talk to . As a child , I never had no room all to myself , we were awful poor . Buddy I have got a confession to make .
BUDDY: What is it , Rose ?
ROSE: It 's so terrible I ca n't tell you . Oh , Buddy , you do n't know how it hurts to have a broken heart , what a terrible feeling it is , and I 've had a broken heart so many times . Men , I do n't understand them , I ca n't figure them out and they eak my heart , that 's all . I ca n't find Mr . Right , Buddy , I ca n't find him no matter how hard I look , all I find is a whole pile of Mr. Wrongs . But this is the worst eve ecause it was n't his fault . It was my fault , oh yes , my fault , I was ad oh God , I was bad , you would n't believe how bad I was .
BUDDY: What 'd you do , Rose ?
ROSE: Buddy , I was horrible . I ca n't tell you who it was , but do you know what I did ? I sat on his lap and got ahold of him and wiggled and wiggled my ass on him and was worse ' n you could know , a child like you . Why , I let one of my tits fall out deliberate on purpose and practically smack him in the face with it and I let my dern skirt come up so he could see my drawers But to get back serious to what I was sayin ' , it is not only , Buddy , the loss of him but my own bad ehavior what bothers me so
BUDDY: You were pretty bad , huh ?
ROSE: Why , it has just made me ill , Buddy . I 'm sick . I do n't want to eat nothin ' , I do n't , and me I got a good appetite , that ai n't nat'ral for me . I 'm ill .
BUDDY: But , Rose , what is the cause of it all ?
ROSE: Promise not to tell Doll ? o nobody ? Buddy , it 's your Daddy ! I 'm so much in love with him I am out of my mind !
BUDDY: But , Rose , how could such a thing as that happen ?
ROSE: I fell madly in love with him when he called me Rosebud . You know that first day when I come and he said I looked graceful like a capital letter S and called me Rosebud ? I fell madly in love with that man ight then . But it 's a lost love , Buddy . He 's a good man and wo n't have nothin ' to do with me .
BUDDY: Can I touch you here ?
ROSE: What did you expect ?
BUDDY: Well , I thought they were more like a cantaloupe .
ROSE: Ha ha ha , that 's some idea , a cantaloupe .
BUDDY: There 's some kind of gristle in it , though .
ROSE: Buddy , quit that , you 're just a child , you 're not supposed to be interested in such things .
BUDDY: Actually , I am , though .
ROSE: You know , that Daddy of yours is the funniest man , the things he says , you never know what 's going to come out of his mouth next .
BUDDY: Can I put my hand inside you nightgown , Rose ?
ROSE: No , you ca n't . And I 'll tell you this he scares me . As kind as he is , he scares me . You ca n't fool around with him , not with that man . And , boy , I sure better not try nothin ' like that with him again , he 'll fire me .
BUDDY: Rose , ca n't I see what the nipple on it is like ?
ROSE: Buddy , what 's come over you ? A child like you , askin ' such things .
BUDDY: But I 'm curious , Rose . Puts his hand in her nightgown .
ROSE: Buddy , get your hand offa me ! Quit it , get you hand away Takes his wrist .
BUDDY: Just for a second . Please , Rose , what 's the harm ?
ROSE: Buddy , you do n't realize it but what you 're doing is n't nice .
BUDDY: Aw , come on , Rose , I want to see what the nipple on it is like .
ROSE: You don ' t need to know that . It 's none of your business .
BUDDY: Aw , be a good sport , Rose . You like me , do n't you ? I like you a lot .
ROSE: Well , are you satisfied now ? Can we just lie and talk , huh ?
BUDDY: Hmmph . It has a nipple , all right .
ROSE: 'Course it does .
BUDDY: First I could n't feel it , but now I feel it easily , it 's like a little acorn .
ROSE: All right , that 's enough . You 're just a child and would n't understand it , but that type of thing can stir a girl up . Now lie ack and we 'll talk .
BUDDY: That was very interesting . Thank you , Rose .
ROSE: Do n't mention it .
BUDDY: It was softer ' n I thought , that was my main impression . You know , if you hit a girl there it would hurt her a lot .
ROSE: Who would want to do such a thing as that ?
BUDDY: Well , some fiend might .
ROSE: You know , Buddy , sometimes I ca n't figure you out at all . You can be very nice , but like your mothe said there 's an evil streak in you .
BUDDY: There 's an evil streak in everybody , Rose .
ROSE: There ai n't none in your Daddy . You know , what happened has just made me love him all the more . I not only love him , I respect him , I admire him .
BUDDY: Rose , I have a serious favor to ask you .
ROSE: Most men would n't do what he done . If they can get a girl they go ight ahead and get her I guess to hell they do , just like a dern abbit . 'Course later they 'll tell her she 's no good when they done the same thing their selves . They 're a bunch of monkeys . I like 'em , but they 're a bunch of monkeys .
BUDDY: Rose , since you 're here in bed with me and everything and I 've already touched your titty
ROSE: Why , Buddy , shut your mouth ! What an awful thing to say , and where did you get any such idea as that , anyhow ?
BUDDY: I 'm curious to see what it 's like . I 'm very curious , Rose .
ROSE: Well , now that is just too bad ! Curiosity killed the cat .
BUDDY: Yeah , but satisfaction brought him ack . Can I ?
ROSE: No ! You ought to be ashamed of yourself astin ' such a nasty things a child your age !
BUDDY: Ca n't I touch it a little , Rose not a lot , just a little ?
ROSE: Of course you ca n't ! I 'm I 'm shocked at you , Buddy , real shocked ! Now you be quiet or I 'm going back to my own bed !
BUDDY: Please , Rose . I 'm curious , that 's all , I have a natural curiosity , it 's only human . You 're my friend , are n't you ? Do n't you like me ? I like you , Rose , a lot in fact , I love you .
ROSE: Well , you 're sweet , but you do n't eally love me .
BUDDY: Yes , I do . Please , Rose , be a good sport .
ROSE: Buddy , you 're just a child .
BUDDY: I 'm thirteen . And I have a natural curiosity . It 's only nature , Rose , that 's all . Now what 's wrong with nature , huh ?
ROSE: Well , nothin ' .
MOTHER: What 's the matter , hon ? Is anything wrong ?
DADDY: No , darlin ' . Just that damnable insomnia in reverse . I sleep like a aby for an hour then I 'm wide awake . You go back to sleep .
ROSE: You better quit that .
BUDDY: But Rose
ROSE: I must be outta my mind . Buddy , quit it .
BUDDY: Am I hurting you ?
ROSE: No . No , you 're not hurting me . But I think you better quit it .
BUDDY: But why , if I 'm not hurting you ?
ROSE: You would n't understand . Oh , God , I must be outta my mind . What would your Momma think ?
BUDDY: Rose , beyond a doubt this is the most fascinating experience of my life .
DADDY: Ehh-hh , Lord , man born of woman hath few days and they are full of trouble .
ROSE: Ohh-hh ! Ohhh-hh ! Oh , Buddy , you 're so sweet . I love you a lot .
BUDDY: Rose , are you all right ? Are you sick or something ?
ROSE: No . No , I 'm all right . Oh , God , what have I done ? I have obbed a cradle and fallen into hell ! I must be crazy , a child like you . Oh , God , oh , Lord . This is awful , this is terrible , I got ta get outta here !
BUDDY: Do n't worry , Rose , I wo n't tell a soul .
ROSE: I sure hope you do n't . I got ta get outta here , good night .
BUDDY: Good night , Rose .
DADDY: Rose , what are you doing up ?
ROSE: Nothin ' , just goin ' to the athroom .
DADDY: Is anything wrong ?
ROSE: No , sir .
DADDY: Well , good night .
ROSE: Good night .
BUDDY: Wait till you hear what happened ! Now you wont believe this , Doll , ut Rose came in my room and got in my bed last night
MOTHER: Yes , dear , what is it ?
DOLL: Mother , Buddy says Rose got in his ed last night and he fiddled with her and she snorted and had a fit and he says I would too if I was grown-up . Is it true , Mother would I sweat and snort and froth at the mouth and have a horrible fit like he says ? Mother stares in consternation at Doll .
DADDY: Out ! Out , you viper in the grass ! Out ! Never darken our doorstep , you immoral , terrible girl !
ROSE: Ohh-hh , ohhh-hh Ouch ! Oh-hh ohh
BUDDY: I said I would n't .
ROSE: Buddy , I have to ask you , as bad as I 've been please have pity on me and do n't ruin me by telling them what I did . I know it was bad , it was bad and dumb . But mostly it was dumb , I did n't mean you no harm , I 'd never want to hurt a hair on your head and that 's the truth . I love you . But they 'd think I did , they 'd think I was awful , they 'd despise me and hate me
BUDDY: Well , I do n't know what you 're worried about . It was my idea , I was the one who thought of it , not you .
ROSE: You do n't understand . They 'd blame me , not you . And they 'd think I was awful , a disgustin ' girl , which I am , but Buddy , please do n't tell them . Please do n't . Ill have to go and I love it here , I love you whole fam'ly , your Daddy , you Mother Buddy , I know I 'm no good , I 'm a ad girl but I ca n't help it , please have pity on me and do n't tell ! Please do n't , please
BUDDY: Rose , they could stick splinters under my fingernails , and I will never say a word ! I will never tell them , because I love you !
ROSE: Oh , Buddy , you do love me ! I knew you did , knew it all the time
DADDY: Ehh-hh , Lord great life if you do n't weaken .
ROSE: Well , Ill tell you this . I have learned a lesson tonight . I was n't gon na run around , but when I start otherin ' your Daddy and worse obbin ' a cradle , I got ta face the facts of life . Tomorrow mornin ' , I 'm gon na get myself up and go out .
BUDDY: You 're going to get yourself up and go out ?
ROSE: Buddy , Mr . Right is out there somewhere and I 'm gon na find him !
MOTHER: Brother , when I have to wake you up at eleven o'clock in the morning you 're either sick or you were up very late last night . And you were n't reading Huckleberry Finn . I looked and its not in you oom . Now what were you doing ?
BUDDY: Mother , I have to tell the truth . I was n't reading Huckleberry Finn , I was reading one of those Little Dirty Comic Books .
MOTHER: Oh , Brother , I am so disappointed in you . You must n't look at those horrible things , they degrade the human image .
BROTHER: They 're filthy , Mother .
MOTHER: Sex is n't ugly , sex is one of the most beautiful things in life , the creative power of the universe is ehind it .
BROTHER: I know , Mother .
MOTHER: But we must respect that power , we must be in awe of it .
BROTHER: I am in awe of it , Mother .
MOTHER: I do n't think you are sufficiently in awe of it . Get the castor oil .
BROTHER: Oh , Mother , not the castor oil .
MOTHER: This is n't punishment , I do n't elieve in punishment . It 's fo your health . Obviously you 're sick if you can act like that .
BUDDY: Mother , cant you make it calomel instead of castor oil ?
MOTHER: This is for your own good . When you look at negative , destructive things like those little filthy comic books , you are sick . Here , take this .
BUDDY: Geccch , yehh , guhhhh !
MOTHER: Stop gagging like that and putting on a show , and swallow it .
BUDDY: Uhhh , gahdam stuff !
MOTHER: What did you say , Brother ?
BUDDY: I said ahhh-dam stuff .
MOTHER: No , you did n't say that , Brother .
BUDDY: Yes , I did , mother . Your hearing aid is n't working right . I said ahhh-dam stuff .
DOLL: No , Mother , he 's lying
BUDDY: Shut up , Doll . I 'll cut your guts
WASKI: He did lie , and and and Mother , yesterday he stole money out of your pocketbook !
BUDDY: Quiet , you little muddy-eyed brat , or Ill kill you !
MOTHER: Children , children ! Be quiet , all of you ! The vibrations in this house are strange today . Where 's Rose , anyhow ?
BUDDY: She 's getting herself up to go out .
MOTHER: What 'd you say , Brother ?
BUDDY: She 's getting herself up to go out . I think she 's coming down the hall now .
MOTHER: Oh , yes , it 's Thursday . Hello , Rose , dear my , you 're looking pretty
ROSE: How do you like my outfit ? I made most of it myself .
MOTHER: Well , it 's very gay .
BUDDY: Here comes Daddy .
ROSE: I have a knack for designing clothes . But I had to buy the shoes and the pocketbook .
MOTHER: Well , I think it 's charming , Rose . But do n't you think ah , the skirt is a little tight ?
ROSE: Oh , no , that 's the style . It 's meant to be clinging .
DADDY: Ye gods and little fishes . What have you done to yourself , Rose ?
ROSE: Nothin ' . I got myself up , that 's all .
DADDY: Got yourself up ?
ROSE: Yeah . I 'm goin ' out .
DADDY: Um-hmm . Well , that is the damndest outfit I ever saw in my life . You walk down the street like that and they 'll put you in jail , Rose .
MOTHER: Why , they wo n't either . She looks pretty . And I wish you would n't pick on the poor girl all the time . Do n't listen to him , Rose , you look pretty , even beautiful .
ROSE: You 're so sweet .
DADDY: If you 've got time before you go `` out , '' get me a half-a-cup of coffee , Rose . Not a whole cup , a half-a-cup .
ROSE: Why , sure , always got time to get you a half-a-cup , and one of these days I 'm gon na get you a whole cup and see what happens .
DADDY: Um-hmmuhh . I never drink a whole cup , my nerves ca n't stand the caffeine . Ehh-hh , Lord awful insomnia in reverse last night . Lay there and sweated blood for hours .
DOLL: Daddy , Buddy was up late last night eading little dirty comic books . Mother gave him a dose of casto oil and he cursed it , he took the Lords name in vain , then claimed he had n't said it . He lied , Daddy .
MOTHER: You must n't be a tattletale , dear . You must n't be Delilah-ish and Jezebel-ish toward your brother , dear .
DOLL: I 'm only trying to help him , Mother .
BUDDY: Heh , what a hypocrite .
MOTHER: I do wish you 'd speak to Brother . It 's true he 's been looking at those horrible little books again .
DADDY: Lay off of that stuff , son . It upsets your mother .
MOTHER: I 'm serious . We forget he 's just a child . I wish you 'd speak to him .
DADDY: I 'll take him with me downtown . And you , too , Rose , if you want a ide .
ROSE: Sure , love one . Here 's your half-a cup of coffee .
DADDY: That 's a pretty stylish skirt , Rose . The only thing I do n't understand is how did you ever get it on .
ROSE: Well , it has buttons .
DADDY: How can the buttons stand the pressure ?
ROSE: There are more on the other side . Points to buttons on left side .
DADDY: Turn around , darlin ' .
MOTHER: Well , it is a little tight . But it is n't as bad as all that . No one will notice unless they have such thoughts in the first place .
DADDY: Who does n't have such thoughts ? We 'd better get going .
MOTHER: You 're not having lunch ?
DADDY: Just half-a-cup of coffee . I neve eat , darlin ' , you know that . Not eating and reverse insomnia are my curses . Let 's go , Rose , you and Brother , let 's hit the road .
MOTHER: Rose , you and Brother wait in the car . I want to speak for a moment Lo Mr. Hillyer .
ROSE: Yes , Ma'am .
MOTHER: Doll , you and Waski run on , too .
ROSE: Did your Momma really give you castor oil ?
BUDDY: Yeah .
ROSE: You 're my sweetheart .
MOTHER: I wish you would n't pick on Rose and tease her like that . Of course her clothes are silly , but she 's ignorant , naive , she does n't know any better .
DADDY: The girl worries me . If she walks down the street like that , an army will be following her .
MOTHER: Well , I admit that outfit is n't very modest . But she does n't mean any harm , she just wants to attract , attention .
DADDY: She will succeed .
MOTHER: I do n't think you understand her . It is n't sex she wants , it 's love she wants and this is the only way she knows how to get it .
DADDY: That farmer in Gadsden was awful eager to get rid of her , and I 'm eginning to see why .
MOTHER: He and his wife both said she had a fine moral character and was wonderful with children .
DADDY: Well , she loves children , all ight . She loves everybody .
MOTHER: But that 's a wonderful quality , not a bad quality . Have a little patience with her . She 's such a good-hearted little thing and tries so hard .
DADDY: You are the one who 's good-hearted . As for Rose , let 's hope for the est .
MOTHER: Be kind to her . She loves you so much . In a perfectly proper way , of course .
DADDY: Yes , of course .
ROSE: My rose . It 's kind of like a motto . People will say , there comes Rose with her rose .
DADDY: You were up late last night , Brother .
BUDDY: Well , a little .
DADDY: Reading dirty comic bocks . And you admitted it ?
BUDDY: Well , yeah .
DADDY: You were up late last night , too , Rose .
ROSE: Yes , sir . I had to go to the athroom .
DADDY: Sometimes I think I was born to be a detective . I get a feeling about things . I 'm not always right , but often I am .
BUDDY: No . Why should Rose be in my room ?
DADDY: I ca n't imagine why . It was just a thought .
ROSE: Oh , anywhere downtown .
DADDY: You do n't know where you 're going ?
ROSE: Oh , I 'll just mosey around here and there .
DADDY: Is this ill right ?
ROSE: It 'll do just fine . Bye-bye , see you later .
ROSE: My feet sure do hurt .
YOUNG SALESMAN: Oh , yeah ?
DADDY: She has made contact .
BUDDY: I do n't know .
DADDY: The girl strikes like a cobra .
MOTHER: Bruises and broken bones , what kind of thing is that to say ?
DADDY: No reason at all , darlin ' .
MOTHER: Well , I wish you 'd stop criticizing and picking on her .
DADDY: Forgive my crudity , darlin ' . All I 'm saying is that a girl who would wear clothes like that is going to get in trouble sooner or later .
MOTHER: Well , time will tell , wo n't it ?
DADDY: Yes , darlin ' , time will tell .
MOTHER: Rose , that scruffy-looking man is out in the yard again .
ROSE: Mrs. Hillyer , I do n't know who he is , I really do n't .
MOTHER: I had better call Daddy .
DADDY: Glad to have you with us , Mr. Watson . Make yourself at home . Shadrach , take Mr. Watson 's bag .
MOTHER: Hello , honey ? That scruffy-looking man is out in the yard again .
DADDY: Luckily , Johnson just walked in to elieve me . I 'll be right out there !
BUDDY: Rose , you must know who the fellow is .
ROSE: Well , he might be that man who followed me home from the store the other day . But I do n't know who he is , Buddy , I really do n't .
DADDY: Come back here , sir ! Come back here , you ! Daddy runs after the man . CUT TO a shot of Daddy running after him .
ROSE: I do n't know him .
MOTHER: Yes ?
BILLY: Is Rose here ?
MOTHER: She must have gone out for a walk with the children .
BILLY: Well , I got to see her .
MOTHER: She is n't here . And I 'm sorry , but Mr. Hillyer does n't want her to have callers during working hours .
BILLY: Where is she ?
MOTHER: I said she is n't here . NOW you go home . Be a nice boy and go home .
DADDY: Rose , my patience is wearing thin . First a scruffy man who runs like a deer and now a sulky boy who wont go away . This is getting to be a egular monkey and dog show .
ROSE: I swear to God I do n't know who in the world he is . Really , I do n't , I do n't know no boy like that , I do n't .
MOTHER: Well , it is n't Rose 's fault boys and men like her . You cant blame her for that , hon .
DADDY: Rose , I realize you do n't know this oy , but if you know anybody who does know him , if you have even a faint clue as to who he might be , then convey to him that he had etter stay away from my house and stop scaring my wife and I do n't mean maybe .
BUDDY: Chattanooga . I had St. Louis , Missouri .
DOLL: Buddy , I 'm worried about Rose .
BUDDY: So am I .
DOLL: She has n't got any sense . In some ways , she 's awful dumb .
BUDDY: It is n't that she has n't got any sense , Doll . Her basic intelligence is probably above average , maybe quite a bit above average .
DOLL: Then why does she act so dumb ?
BUDDY: Dumbness does n't concern her , Doll . And neither does smartness . You see
DADDY: All right , I have got a Parke shotgun here and it is loaded and the trigger is cocked and whereve you birds are and whatever you are doing you had better get the hell out of here goddamned quick !
ROSE: I got an awful toothache .
BUDDY: Rose , if you do n't keep you oyfriends away from the house , Daddy is going to fire you .
ROSE: But I do n't know who they are .
DADDY: Well , Rose , my sleep was a little disturbed last night , and so was Mrs. Hillyer 's , and so was the children 's . How about you ? Was you sleep disturbed , too ?
ROSE: Yes , Mr. Hillyer , it was . I I heard strange voices in the night .
DADDY: Strange voices , Rose ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
DADDY: Now Rose , stop behaving as if you 're Bo Peep . Those men had a flight last night because of some female in this house , and it was n't Dolly or Mrs. Hillyer .
MOTHER: I do n't think we ought to discuss this in front of the children .
ROSE: Oh oh oh ! I think maybe one of 'em was Foster but I do n't hardly know him !
DADDY: Oh , shut up , Rose . Shut your mouth and quit crying !
MOTHER: I will not sit here and listen to you be brutal to this poor girl .
DADDY: I am not being brutal to her !
MOTHER: You certainly are ! She has an awful toothache , look at her jaw , it 's all swollen .
DADDY: Darlin ' , it is not my fault if the girl has epizootics
MOTHER: Scoundrels ? They were n't scoundrels , they were just boys .
DADDY: Boys ? You say to me boys ?
MOTHER: Yes ! Yes , I say that to you , they were boys ! Boy friends of Rose , chat 's what they were , and why should n't she have boy friends ? Do you want her to be unnatural ? Do n't you think she 's human the same way you are yourself ? It 's the South , that 's what it is , the South with its horrible traditions , of slavery and crime and the oppression of women , who are just as good as men and just as human !
DADDY: Now darlin ' , what has the South got to do with this ?
MOTHER: And when I try to talk to you seriously , when I try to explain to you the unlimited creative power of life , how beautiful it would be if we gave up this hopeless struggle and simply loved each other from our hearts , what do you do you mock me !
DADDY: I do n't intend to mock you , dear . I espect your philosophy . It 's eyond my comprehension , but I espect it .
ROSE: Ohhh-hh , ohhh
DADDY: Oh , shut up , Rose , eat you cornflakes !
ROSE: I 'm not hungry . The word is hongry , not hungry .
DADDY: Now you listen to me , Rose
MOTHER: Just a moment ! You are not going to fire this girl for an innocent thing like having boy friends , not while there is breath in my body !
DADDY: I do n't intend to fire her , darlin ' .
MOTHER: It is n't her fault if she 's popular what ?
DADDY: I said I do n't intend to fire her . I just want to ask her to keep he oy friends away from my home and hearth , that 's all .
MOTHER: Well , that 's very reasonable . Howe I hate to bring it up , but she 's got an awful toothache , we 've got to carry her to the dentist .
ROSE: I do n't want to go to the dentist .
MOTHER: Be quiet , Rose .
DADDY: Darlin ' , I 'll take a taxi to the hotel . You and Brother can handle the girl 's epizootics . I 'll just say one more thing . Rose , I told you you had a friend in Mrs. Hillyer , did n't I , that she would fight for you like a tiger ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
DADDY: All right , thanks to her , and thanks to this case of epizootics , you are getting another chance . But do n't try my patience again . We have growing children in this house . Do you understand me ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
MOTHER: Poor thing . Does the ice help , Rose ?
ROSE: Ohh-hh , a little . Oh-h , I ai n't never been to no dentist before . He 's gon na kill me , I just know it .
MOTHER: No , Rose , he 'll help you .
ROSE: Yes , you are .
MOTHER: Now , come on , Rose . Stop being so childish , come on .
ROSE: I 'm not goin ' in there , I do n't like the looks of it !
MOTHER: Rose , sit down in that chair and be quiet ! We 're trying to help you , you silly creature , sit in that chair !
ROSE: Oh-hh , ohh-hh , Lord , he 's gon na kill me .
MOTHER: She was raised on a poor dirt farm . I 'm sure she 's never seen a dentist or hardly even a doctor .
ROSE: Never again , never again
MOTHER: I know it was bad , honey . I 'm sorry
ROSE: No more dentists , no more dentists
MOTHER: It 'll get better now .
DADDY: Good morning , Rose . And how do you feel today ?
ROSE: Wonderful . Except I can touch the place back there with my tongue , I would n't even know I had that tooth pulled .
DADDY: Well , I know it , I just got the ill for it .
ROSE: Boy , for four or five days there I did n't think I 'd live . But I 'm my old self again !
DADDY: Umm . Well . Yes . But no more strange voices in the night , Rose .
ROSE: Oh , no , sir .
MOTHER: Rose has learned her lesson , have n't you , Rose ?
ROSE: Yes , ma'am .
DADDY: I see my mother-in-law 's face , son . Read 'em and weep , boy , I am playing a spectacular combination , a triple . The nine ball in the corner ! Read 'em and weep , boy , that 's all she wrote .
SHADRACH: Mistah Hillyer , the Chief of Police wants you on the telephone .
DADDY: The Chief of Police ?
SHADRACH: Yassuh .
DADDY: Rose is in jail . She bit a policeman 's thumb . Come on , son , Shadrach can run the hotel .
ROSE: I got an awful bad cold .
DADDY: That 's all you 've got to say , you 've got a bad cold ?
ROSE: Well , I do n't know what happened . They were arguin ' about baseball , then all of 'em started fightin ' . As for that policeman , I did n't ite him , I do n't think I bit him .
DADDY: No , not really . But I guess we 'll have to do that , John . Let her out . Let the crazy creature out and I 'll take her home .
ROSE: I got an awful cold , I think I 'm sick . Daddy is silent , his eyes fixed ahead .
DADDY: I have to go back to the hotel . I 'm on duty at the desk and who knows a quest might arrive . I will see you at suppertime , Rose .
ROSE: I did n't mean to bite him , I really did n't .
DADDY: I will see you at suppertime , Rose .
ROSE: Yes , air .
DOLL: What is Rose going to do ? Where can she go ?
BUDDY: They 've been in there the longest kind of time . I ca n't stand it , I got ta find out what 's going on .
DOLL: You better not snoop , Daddy 'll kill you !
DADDY: I 'm sorry , darlin ' , I hate it as much as you do .
MOTHER: Well , she does seem to cause a lot of trouble , I admit . But she does n't mean any harm and it 'll eak the children 's hearts , they all love her .
DADDY: It 's because of the children she 's got to go . I do n't want to be holier-than-thou , but the girl does n't have the same outlook we do . Morals do n't mean a thing to her , not a thing , and we ca n't have a girl like that in this house .
MOTHER: Who is to say our morals are bette than hers ? But maybe you 're right . She could influence Dolly
DADDY: That is exactly what I 'm afraid of . The girl has got to go , darlin ' .
MOTHER: But morals come from the heart , not from rigid rules and empty laws . And in her heart Rose has neve hurt anyone and she never would . Therefore , she 's not immoral . Not eally .
DADDY: Now look , darlin ' , this is no time to go off into the fourth dimension .
MOTHER: But what I said is the simple truth . And now I see something else , I see more deeply into it
DADDY: Just a moment , darlin ' .
MOTHER: How could Rose really be a bad influence on Dolly ? She has a loving nature , you ought to want someone like that around you children . Why do you think those oys and men like her ?
DADDY: Well , I have a pretty good idea .
MOTHER: If you mean sex , you could n't be more wrong . Rose likes those boys and men , she has love in her heart , and that is what they want . It 's the most rare and beautiful thing in life and that is why they follow her .
DADDY: They follow her because she 's a no , I wo n't say that .
MOTHER: What she does n't understand is that her behavior is disturbing to othe people . She 's young , she 's got to learn to restrain the life force that 's in her . Its creative , but in her case it 's too creative .
DADDY: Darlin ' , Rose has got to go !
MOTHER: I 'll talk to her , I 'll reason with her .
DOLL: What 's happening ?
BUDDY: Mother is struggling desperately . In fact she 's fighting like a tiger . But I do n't know , it 's close , it 's mighty close .
DOLL: Buddy does Rose really `` do it '' with all those boys and men ?
BUDDY: Doll , do n't ask childish questions .
WASKI: Of course not !
BUDDY: Oh , Waski , you do n't even know what we 're talking about .
MOTHER: Rose , you 're very sick . You 're urning up . Rose , can you hear me ? Rose ?
ROSE: What ? Wha-at ? Mrs. Hillyer ?
DR. MARTINSON: Well , Mrs. Hillyer , the girl is strong as an ox and that is what is keeping her alive . But not many people walk away from double pneumonia , Madam , not many .
MOTHER: She looks terrible , just awful .
DR. MARTINSON: Of course she does and I must say I 'm puzzled by your delay in getting her to the hospital . I should think ordinary powers of observation would have suggested to you that she was seriously ill .
MOTHER: She hid it from us , Doctor . She 's afraid of the hospital .
DR. MARTINSON: Afraid of the hospital ?
MOTHER: Deathly afraid of it . Her people were poor tenant farmers and she does n't know anything about doctors or medicine or hospitals .
DR. MARTINSON: A tenant farm ? Are you trying to tell me that girl is a product of the hookworm and pellagra belt ?
MOTHER: Well , her people were very poor . She says she was often hungry as a child , and I 'm sure the food she ate was pretty awful , not a alanced diet at all .
DR. MARTINSON: Exactly , and that 's why she could n't possibly have come from such a farm .
DADDY: Excuse me , sir , are you calling my wife a liar ?
MOTHER: Honey , please
DR. MARTINSON: It 's simply that I find it incredible , Mr. Hillyer . Aside from the girl 's illness at the moment , she is very strong , a very healthy specimen of a young human female and a comely one , too . She must have gotten protein somewhere as a young child , if only sporadically .
MOTHER: It is kind of amazing . The dentist says she has perfect teeth , there is n't a cavity in her mouth .
MR. MARTINSON: Her entire mouth is a cavity , Madam , ha ha ha .
DADDY: Ha ha ha ha .
DR. MARTINSON: The point is you do n't grow up like that on a diet of sorghum and hominy grits . She got protein somewhere , she 's a very strong girl and I think she 'll live despite the delay in medical treatment .
DADDY: That 's all I want to know . Lets get out of here before I get the epizootics myself . Thank you , Doctor , for your discourse , it was fascinating , no doubt .
MOTHER: Yes , thank you , Doctor .
DR. MARTINSON: I beg your pardon , epi-zoo-tics ? Do you mean `` epi-zoo-ot-tics , '' an animal epidemic ?
DADDY: No , I mean epizootics .
MOTHER: You do n't like him because he 's a Yankee . He 's a brilliant doctor .
DADDY: He 's a polecat , dear .
MOTHER: I do n't see how you can even think of it now .
ROSE: Oh , he 's so kind , so gentle inside , and so unhappy with that rich wife who does n't understand him , he eing a Southerner and everything , and what a bedside manner he has got so gentle and kind beneath the professor way he acts !
BUDDY: Rose , you are too uncritical of people .
ROSE: You do n't know the bedside manne that man has got . Why , it does me good just to see him sit there all solemn and go pokin ' in his bag like he 's gon na cure me , which he did of course . And even more important he loves me , like a patient I mean , the other day he got tears in his eyes just listenin ' to my heart beat .
BUDDY: He did ?
ROSE: Yeah , he tried to hide it but I saw 'em , and a little bit he says to me , `` You know , you are beautiful . '' Now was n't that a nice thing for a doctor to say to a patient , was n't it ? What could cheer a girl up more ?
BUDDY: Rose , I have got doubts about that doctor and so does Daddy .
ROSE: He 's got doubts about hisself and that 's the saddest thing of all . Would you believe that poor man thinks nobody likes him ?
BUDDY: Yeah , I 'd believe it .
ROSE: Well , I like him . I used to be afraid of doctors but not any more . Why , he could operate on me any old time and I would n't even be scared .
BUDDY: Rose , you are just entirely too uncritical of people .
ROSE: I ai n't neither . Listen here , Buddy , besides all his vast medical knowledge , he has the most kindest heart beneath the professor way he acts he wants justice in the world and he 's got some real interestin ' ideas .
MOTHER: Oh , good evening , Doctor . Rose is a lot better , I just gave her he supper . She 's almost all well now .
DR. MARTINSON: Let me be the judge of that , Madam .
MOTHER: Yes . Well . She 's upstairs .
ROSE: Justice , that 's what he wants , justice for everybody and especially for niggers . And I think that 's real nice of him because lack people do n't have a very good life , you got to admit that , to be a nigger is sometimes practic'ly fatal , but the wife do n't understand all of that , she thinks niggers are just so much dirt , which anybody ought to know bette if they been on their ass thei ownselves and that is the cause of his profound unhappiness , Buddy , that no-good-mean wife with all he Southern prejudice against niggers and everything !
MOTHER: The Doctor is here . And Brother , supper is ready .
DADDY: Is that Doctor still up there , Brother .
BUDDY: Yeah , he 's still up there .
DADDY: What 's taking the rascal so long ?
MOTHER: Honey , Dr. Martinson is n't a ascal , he 's one of the finest physicians in Glenville . He studied at Johns Hopkins University .
DADDY: I do n't care where the polecat studied .
MOTHER: Sometimes the negativism and cynicism in you makes me want to vomit . Your real trouble is that you 're anti-intellectual . The irony is women are supposed to be emotional , ut I never saw anybody who depended more on emotion and prejudice than you do .
BUDDY: Excuse me , got ta go to bathroom .
MOTHER: Now I have a plan about Rose , an educational plan . She 's getting etter and we do n't want any more trouble Brother , you ought to hear this .
BUDDY: I 'll be right back .
MOTHER: First , those clothes she wears . They 're too provocative . I 've talked to her a lot about it and I think she understands
DR. MARTINSON: Oh , yes . Yes . Just fine . A few more days a little more rest she 'll be perfectly healthy .
DADDY: What do you think , Brother ?
BUDDY: I do n't know . But you better watch him like a hawk , if he comes back again .
DADDY: He 's not coming back again . We scared the rascal off , son . Come on back to supper . Your mothe has a theory about how to educate Rose .
MOTHER: You see , Rose ? Now that 's the kind of dress you ought to wear .
ROSE: Yeah , it 's kinda nice .
MOTHER: You look very pretty in it , Rose . Really , you do .
ROSE: Well , you 're real sweet to make it for me . There never was nobody like you . And you do n't need to worry , I ai n't goin ' out no more .
MOTHER: Well , there 's no reason you should n't go out , Rose in moderation .
ROSE: I do n't want to . When I was lyin ' there in that hospital bed at death 's door I says to myself , I ai n't goin ' out no more . If I eve get outta this , I 'll just stay home .
MOTHER: She 's like a different person . Being so sick made a big impression on her . I really think she 's learned a lesson .
DADDY: Um-hmm . Come with me , Brother . I want to show you something .
BUDDY: Well , it 's not very plain .
DADDY: That is because it rained recently , the rain has obscured the evidence . But you could still take plaste casts of these footprints , then match up the plaster casts with whosever shoes they are , and that way you could catch him understand ?
BUDDY: But how would you find him ?
DADDY: Well . Well , what I mean is , you could prove it was his shoes if you did catch him . But look this , Brother , it is even more interesting . Look at this mark here , and that mark over there . Now would n't you say those marks are the marks of a ladder ?
BUDDY: Well , I do n't know . No , I do n't know , Daddy , I think the rain has obscured it .
DADDY: True , but if you look sharply you can see that those marks are the marks of a ladder . Now let 's go ack to the garage and see if the ladder has been tampered with .
BUDDY: Well maybe
DADDY: And there 's only one reason anybody would want this ladder to get up into Rose 's bedroom in the dark of night ! I am going to chain up this ladder and padlock it ! and that is not all I am going to do ! Buddy stares at him in apprehension .
BUDDY: He 's not going to fire her .
DADDY: I mean a human investment , Rose , we care about you , you matter to us . But we have innocent and unformed children in this house and the monkey and dog show has got to stop . Do you hear me ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
MOTHER: She has n't actually done anything
DADDY: Just a moment , dear . We ca n't have it , Rose . Can you ehave yourself or not ? That is the question , to behave or not to ehave , to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous chastity and keep your skirt down or to hoist it in the light of the moon and make whoopee that is the coil shuffling question . If you ca n't behave I am going to fire you and I say it in front of you and Mrs. Hillyer and I mean it . I point my rigid finger right at your nose , Rose , and I stare unwaveringly into your big blue eyes and I tell you this is a final warning . Do you hear me ?
ROSE: Yes , sir .
DOLL: Well , if she 's got any sense at all , she 'll listen to that .
BUDDY: Sense does n't mean anything to Rose . But I think we 're on safe ground now . Daddy chained up the ladder , whoever it is ca n't get in the house .
DADDY: Rose ! Rose ! Open this goddamn door ! Open it or I 'll break it down !
BUDDY: Daddy , what 's the matter ?
DADDY: She 's got somebody in there , Brother ! His shoes are on the back porch there they were , naked and smiling at me ! Rose , open this door immediately !
ROSE: There ai n't nobody here , Mr. Hillyer ! Honest , there ai n't !
DADDY: Where is he ? Where have you got him hid ? Ah , ha !
ROSE: Well , it 's Billy .
DADDY: And what , may I ask , was Billy doing here ?
ROSE: Well , Mr. Hillyer , Billy 's very poor , he do n't have no money and there was n't no place else to go .
DADDY: Well , it was a silly question .
ROSE: He 's a nice boy , you 'd like him . He wants to be a fireman .
DADDY: Ye gods and little fishes , a fireman . Put on some clothes , Rose , you 're naked as a jay bird . When you 're dressed , come on downstairs . I 'm afraid your friend Billy is injured , where are his clothes ?
ROSE: Under the mattress . I hid 'em so you would n't be mad . He wants to marry me , he loves me . I ca n't marry him , he 's too young and has n't got no job , but he loves me now you would n't hurt him , would you ?
DADDY: I wo n't hurt him , honey .
ROSE: Mr. Hillyer , I know it was bad and I had n't ought to of done it . But I 'm only a human girl and I I ai n't always perfect . I promise I wo n't let him in the house no more , I promise . Wo n't you and Mrs. Hillyer forgive me ?
DADDY: Rose , darlin ' , you break my heart . But I am only a human man myself of the father variety . Rose , pack you ag , baby , as of this moment you are hired , mired and fired .
ROSE: What 's the use , there ai n't none .
DADDY: Mmm . Would you get me another half a-cup of coffee , dear ?
MOTHER: She ca n't get a job , it 's a depression . And we ca n't just throw her out on the street .
DADDY: The hell we ca n't .
MOTHER: Rose , you do n't look well and you have n't eaten a bit of breakfast .
ROSE: I 'm not hungry . I ca n't eat nothin ' , I have n't been able to eat since I got fired . I think maybe I 'm sick .
DADDY: God forbid . You 're not sick , Rose , forget it . Do n't get any notions in your head , you 're not sick .
ROSE: Yes , sir .
MOTHER: She does look a little peaky .
DADDY: No , she does n't , she 's fine , fine . She 's perfectly healthy , do n't give her ideas .
ROSE: Well , I 'll do the dishes , then I 'm goin ' to lie down a minute and est . My stomach hurts .
DADDY: Her plan is obvious , plain as day . She 's going on a hunger strike . The question is , how do we foil her ?
MOTHER: She 's just nervous and worried . And you would be , too , if you had no job and no place to go .
DADDY: Something has got to be done o Rose is going to be in this house forever .
ROSE: Tennessee ?
DADDY: Yes , Tennessee , a lovely state !
ROSE: Well . What kinda job is it ?
DADDY: Ahh-hh , you 'll like it . It 's a fine , outdoor-type job .
ROSE: You mean a farm ?
DADDY: No , no , not exactly . It is n't a farm in the sense that it 's a farm . Not at all . It 's a dairy establishment . You 'll 1ike it ! I 'm sure you 'll like it because it 's so peaceful ! Rose bows her head and begins crying .
MOTHER: Honey , Rose was born on a farm and has terrible memories of farm life . Now I do n't think
DADDY: Just a minute , Rose , you do n't understand . This is n't a dirt farm like the one you were born on , it 's nice . A neighbor of Cousin Hop 's , I talked to him on the phone , a fine man it 's not a farm , damn it , it 's a beautiful dairy establishment ! Stop crying , Rose ! Do you hear me ? Stop crying , it 's ideal !
MOTHER: I do n't know how you can call it ideal do n't you know what the word `` farm '' means to her ?
DADDY: I do n't give a hoot in hell 's hollow what it means to her ! She ca n't stay in this house forever ! I fired her , damn it !
MOTHER: It sounds like a farm to me . Calling it a dairy establishment , that 's just trickery and flummery .
DADDY: Trickery and flummery or not , she 's going there tomorrow on the bus ! It 's settled ! And I must say we 've een more than fair to you , Rose , it 's pretty selfish and mean hearted of you to sit there and cry like that ! Rose sits head bowed at the kitchen table .
ROSE: I 'm not cryin ' because of me , I 'm cryin ' because of somebody else .
DADDY: What ?
ROSE: Well , I was born on a farm myself and I hate to think of the baby being born on one .
DADDY: What baby ? What baby ? What baby are you speaking about ?
ROSE: Mine .
DADDY: Your baby ?
ROSE: Yes , mine . I 'm going to have one .
DADDY: Good God almighty . This is a catastrophe , they wo n't hire her .
MOTHER: Brother , get out of that window !
DADDY: This is a total catastrastroke . As of this moment I am stumped , I admit , I am stumped and treed both , the hound dogs have me surrounded .
MOTHER: Poor thing , do n't cry , Rose . I know you feel awful , but do n't cry , honey , nobody 's perfect . Who 's the father , dear ?
ROSE: Well , I I I do n't know maybe it was but no , you ca n't e sure about a thing like that . It was n't Billy , I did n't know him .
MOTHER: I know it 's embarrassing but who were you exposed to , dear ?
ROSE: Well , now , Mrs. Hillyer , I ah-h , that 's kinda hard to say .
DADDY: You 're not going to get anywhere with that line of questioning . The problem is , what are we going to do ?
MOTHER: That 's why I 'm asking her who the father is . It 's the most vital question of all . Who 's the father , dear ?
DADDY: She already told you , she does n't know .
MOTHER: But she must know unless unless Rose , was there more than one person ?
ROSE: Oh-h , Mrs. Hillyer , I I ca n't think . I I 'm not really sure .
MOTHER: Rose , really , you should n't act like that .
ROSE: Oh , I know . But I did n't , really . Honestly , I did n't . There was only one , but he 's out of town and leave no forwardin ' address .
DADDY: Ah , ha ! Hold the phone ! No forwarding address , huh ? In the shock of this brilliant move , I forgot something .
MOTHER: What did you forget ?
DADDY: I forgot that Rose will lie like a child . She 's no more pregnant than I am , she just does n't want to go to that farm !
ROSE: Yes , I am .
DADDY: No , you 're not .
ROSE: Yes , Mr. Hillyer , I am .
DADDY: All right , tell us , Rose , what makes you think you 're pregnant ?
ROSE: I have n't had my period for three months and my stomach is getting ig .
DADDY: I do n't believe it .
ROSE: It 's so , Mr. Hillyer .
DADDY: All right , damn it . We 've seen you with your clothes off around here , stand up and pull up your dress and let 's take a look !
MOTHER: Honey !
DADDY: She does n't have to take he panties off , we can see her stomach with 'em on . All she has to do is pull up her dress and let us see her belly .
ROSE: Well , all right , if you just wo n't elieve me . Rose stands up .
MOTHER: Rose , you do n't have to .
ROSE: I do n't mind .
DADDY: Now , you will see , she 's lying like she always does that belly will e flat as a pancake !
MOTHER: I 'd say about three months . Are you satisfied ?
DADDY: I am poleaxed and in a non compos mentis condition . I wash my hands or the whole thing .
DOLL: What 's goin ' on ?
BUDDY: Rose says she 's goin ' to have a aby and she sure looks it , but I do n't think so .
DOLL: A baby and she is n't even married .
BUDDY: That 's the least of her troubles . Rose had a rare tropic disease and the little tubes in her that babies swim down are all stopped up , she told me all about it .
DOLL: If it is n't a baby what is it ?
ROSE: Oh , Buddy , they 're gon na cut me all up ! They 're gon na cut my stummick all open , I 'll die !
BUDDY: You wo n't die , Rose .
ROSE: Buddy , I 'm scared , I 'm scared !
DR. MARTINSON: I 'm not surprised you thought she was pregnant . An ovarian cyst can look very much like pregnancy . But it was pure wishful thinking on he part . The girl can never have children , she had gonorrhea at fifteen and it was untreated .
MOTHER: Gonorrhea ?
DR. MARTINSON: Do n't worry , Madam , she ca n't infect your dear little kiddies . She long ago fully recovered , but the disease did irreparable damage . The girl is permanently barren .
MOTHER: Well , that 's pathetic . Poor Rose , what a life she has had .
DR. MARTINSON: We make our own lives , Madam . As for malignancy , I do n't think so , it 's very unlikely . I probably should n't have even mentioned that possibility to her .
MOTHER: No , you should n't have , it was needlessly cruel . She thinks she has cancer and is going to die .
DR. MARTINSON: She 's an adult , Mrs. Hillyer , I was merely giving her the facts .
DADDY: Well , it 's a disaster . I do n't know what to say , Doctor , I am floored . How dangerous is the operation ?
DR. MARTINSON: Any major operation is dangerous . However , as we know from he previous illness , she 's a very strong girl .
DADDY: Well , if it is n't malignant and she can get through the operation all ight , it might be better than he eally being pregnant . She does n't even know who the father might have een .
DR. MARTINSON: Oh , it 's definitely better , beyond question . A fatherless child , an ignorant girl with no job , no money , no home . It 's fortunate , a lessing really , and a stroke of good luck for another reason I want to mention to you .
MOTHER: This conversation is making me a little sick .
DADDY: Honey , that 's no way to talk to the Doctor , he 's merely doing his job , dear .
BUDDY: I got ta find out what they 're saying . You lie back and rest , Rose , and I 'll give you a report on it .
ROSE: I do n't want to know
DR. MARTINSON: I 'm sorry the truth nauseates you , Mrs. Hillyer , because before you leave there 's a bit more of it I 'd like to put to you . This operation provides a therapeutic opportunity that I feel is quite important in egard to this particular girl , who suffers not only from an ovarian cyst but from a certain psychoneurotic condition as well .
MOTHER: What do you mean , what kind of gobbledygook talk is that ?
DADDY: Go ahead , Doctor , I think I am following you .
DR. MARTINSON: First , about the girl 's history . Evidently she 's been very promiscuous since early childhood , she has no control over her sexual impulses . Furthermore , she is permanently barren , she ca n't have children .
DADDY: Go on , Doctor .
MOTHER: Yes , go on .
DR. MARTINSON: I am thinking particularly of the other ovary . As a rule I do n't elieve in removing it . The woman 's hormonal system is profoundly disturbed , she is subject to possibly serious depression , she loses many of her secondary sexual characteristics for example , he easts might shrink and become flabby , facial hair might appea along with a coarsening of the features , and of course her sexual drive is greatly diminished , especially in a girl or young woman . For these reasons I am opposed to removing the othe ovary , as a rule . Do you follow me ?
DADDY: I am ahead of you .
DR. MARTINSON: Then may I speak quite frankly with you , Mr. Hillyer ?
DADDY: Please do .
DR. MARTINSON: I have of course observed the girl in treating her .
DADDY: Of course .
DR. MARTINSON: I think we both know her .
DADDY: Yes , we know her .
MOTHER: What are you talking about ? I do n't understand all this mumbo jumbo and the funny looks on your faces .
DR. MARTINSON: Mrs. Hillyer , this girl is sick in more ways than one . She is an extreme psychoneurotic with uncontrollable sexual impulses . It would be a mercy to spare her the suffering she causes herself and others . Therefore I recommend as a therapeutic measure the removal of her second ovary . It is ethically and medically the only prope decision in this case and I suspect your husband agrees with me .
DADDY: Reluctantly , I do . It would be a lessing to her and everyone else . The girl is oversexed and I say spay her !
MOTHER: Over my dead body !
DR. MARTINSON: Illusions , Madam ?
MOTHER: You 'd go so far as to mutilate a helpless girl who has no means to defend herself , you 'd go that far ? Do n't you think I know what you 've just said and do n't you think I understand the dreadful and evolting crime you 've just conspired to commit ?
DADDY: Well , now , darlin ' give me a chance to defend myself .
MOTHER: I ca n't believe you really meant it , if I did I 'd want to die . You are n't a male monster , that man is ut you are n't . Look me in the eye and tell me , do you really want to take Rose 's womanhood away from he when it 's all she has got ?
DADDY: Well , I I had n't thought about it that much . I was thinking well , it 's an idea , the girl is oversexed , and
MOTHER: Rose is n't oversexed , that 's idiculous . If you 're going to talk nonsense , I do n't want to talk to you at all . Rose is exactly the same as the rest of us , except more so .
DADDY: Well , I know , more so . That 's why I was thinking maybe she 'd be etter off .
MOTHER: Better off ? How could she ever find love and happiness , if you did what you 're talking about ? Are you insane ?
DR. MARTINSON: Now , may I say , I am against that particular procedure , as a general ule . But in a case of nea nymphomania , it does n't seem monstrous to me at all , but medically advisable .
DADDY: Well , now , I admit in Rose 's case , it would be cruel . If Rose was n't attractive and pretty well , it would probably be bad fo almost any young woman . I do n't know exactly what I was thinking about , the doctor said it and it sounded reasonable .
MOTHER: I will not cry like a woman . If I 'm upset it 's because of what my husband said , not because of you . You ca n't make me cry like a woman , a woman has got just as much intelligence and self-control as a man . And you get this in your head . If you hurt that girl , I 'll hire lawyers and sue you for malpractice for every penny you have got , I 'll do my level best to ruin you . Do you understand me ?
DR. MARTINSON: Yes , I understand you , but you have misunderstood me completely .
MOTHER: I understand you perfectly . You leave that girl alone , you wretched man , or you will be sorry .
DR. MARTINSON: Actually of course I wo n't operate , I do n't do major surgery . Dr. Hardy will operate and of course he 'll be guided by your wishes in this espect .
MOTHER: Let him be guided not by my wishes and not by Rose 's wishes , although I am sure they are identical . Let him be guided by the wishes of the creative power of life itself , ecause that is what has spoken through me tonight .
WASKI: Mother is Rose going to die ?
MOTHER: No , Waski , she wo n't die , because we are praying for her .
DOLL: Why is it taking so long ?
BUDDY: Here comes Daddy .
DADDY: Well , I thought I 'd seen the limit , ut these are the most great , gaga epizootics she 's ever had .
MOTHER: How is she ?
DADDY: Fine . As mother sighs in heartfelt relief
ROSE: Perfect , wonderful , good as I eve felt ! Except for a big old scar on my stummick , I would n't even know I een in the hospital .
DADDY: Well , we know you were there . The ill that hospital sent was absolutely horrendous .
ROSE: Well , I 'll pay you that back sometime , Mr. Hillyer .
MOTHER: Do n't worry about it , honey .
DADDY: Rose I hate to be mean , but Oh , nevermind , forget it .
ROSE: What was it , Mr. Hillyer ?
DADDY: Nothing , Rose .
MOTHER: Do n't worry , honey , you 'll find something .
ROSE: I was offered that job as a waitress .
MOTHER: Forget about it , I do n't want you working in one of those honky tonks .
ROSE: Hi , Buddy . How 's my sweetheart who never told on me when I was bad ?
BUDDY: Okay .
ROSE: Makin ' homes for purple martins , huh ? We had 'em on the farm . They 're the prettiest things . That 's what I wish I was , a bird . Just fly around catch bugs and have a lot of fun .
BUDDY: What are you going to do , Rose ?
ROSE: Take a little walk with me , huh ?
BUDDY: They 're dumb things . I got tired of them .
ROSE: Did you know when I was a child we had pretty near five hundred abbits ?
BUDDY: Five hundred rabbits ?
ROSE: Yep , we had 'em in orange crates all over . It was Daddy 's dream . He was goin ' to get rich raisin ' abbits . It was what killed Daddy . He did n't drown hisself till a long time later after Momma and Lunette died of typhoid , but it was them abbits what killed him .
BUDDY: How did the rabbits kill him ?
ROSE: He thought he could sell 'em , but nobody but country folks eat abbits , Buddy , and they ai n't got no money . We had to eat them dern abbits our own selves . Every dern one , and it took about four years to eat 'em all up .
BUDDY: Well , that doctor said you got protein somewhere and I guess he was right .
ROSE: Boy did I get sick of rabbit . But later on after Momma died and Daddy was n't doin ' nothin ' but drinkin ' , I sure would of been glad for a little rabbit stew . You know , I ought n't to of told you about what Daddy done when I was a child . Until them rabbits ruined him , he was a real good man , Buddy .
BUDDY: What was your mother like ?
ROSE: A saint just like your own mother . She 's up in heaven right now , he and Lunette , there ai n't no doubt about it .
BUDDY: Maybe it was eating all those abbits that made you sexy , Rose .
ROSE: Buddy , sex do n't mean a thing to me . It ai n't nothin ' but a mosquito ite . I 'll tell you a secret . Girls do n't want sex , Buddy , girls want love .
DADDY: It 's twenty after one .
MOTHER: I do n't understand it . Even in the wild days she was never as late as this .
DADDY: I 'm afraid it 's my fault . I made her feel guilty this morning Brother , what are you doing up ?
BUDDY: I heard you talking . Has n't Rose come in ?
DADDY: No , she has n't . I think I hear a car .
DAVE: I want to thank you for a wonderful afternoon and evenin ' . Can I see you in the mornin ' ?
ROSE: Yes . Year you can , you sure can .
DADDY: Why , that looks like Dave Wilkie ,
MOTHER: Who ?
DADDY: You know Dave , his wife used to do dressmaking for you before she died .
ROSE: You 'll never guess what happened ! I have met Mr . Right ! I been with him all day and he loves me , I know he does , he loves me and he 's going to marry met Be 's practi'cly ast me already !
MOTHER: Well well , that 's wonderful , Rose .
ROSE: And who do you suppose he is ? That policeman who arrested me , the one I bit ! He is Mr . Right !
WASKI: We like 'em ! We love 'em !
DAVE: Well , it is n't a picnic , honey . It 's a barbecue .
ROSE: Okay .
DAVE: A picnic does n't involve roast meat , hon . At a barbecue you have a lot of roast meat .
DADDY: Good luck , Dave . And good luck to you , too , Rosebud .
ROSE: Oh , Mr. Hillyer ! I just ca n't stand to say goodbye ! Daddy starts the Model A .
DADDY: Well , thank God we are rid of he at last . And the best thing of all is that she 's happy . The little nut is happy , she found Mr . Right in the nick of time !
MOTHER: Well , yes , she 's happy . Of course Dave does n't have her life force , not at all . There is n't much furniture in his house , just a table and one or two chairs , whereas Rose has furniture coming out of the windows .
DADDY: Honey , he is Mr . Right .
MOTHER: Yes , I think so . He adores her , it 's almost pitiful the way he worships her . I just hope she is n't too much for him .
DOLL: I do n't know . I think he 's cryin ' !
MOTHER: Maybe Brother is right . Maybe so .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Mr . Right . Dave Wilkie . Willcox slowly shakes his head .
DADDY: Well , you rascal , where 'd you come from ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Hello , Daddy . How are you ?
DADDY: About as good as can be expected with one foot in the grave . Good to see you , son . Did you bring any of that Yankee whisky with you ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: It is n't Yankee whisky , Daddy , it 's Scotch .
DADDY: It 's Yankee whisky to me .
WILLCOX HILLYER: I can use a drink after the plane ide I had .
DADDY: Your wife and children are back in New Hampshire in the snow ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Yeah , they 're in the snow .
DADDY: Are they polar bears , too ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Good God , the way you live here . This place has n't been dusted since Mother died . Look at that goddamned efrigerator .
DADDY: Got another twenty years in it , oy . By the way , son , do you recall Rose , that pretty blonde girl who came to our house way back in 1935 or 1936 and caused such a damnable commotion .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Of course I recall Rose . In fact I 've been thinking of no one else for the last hour and a half .
DADDY: How could that be , son ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: Dave Wilkie of all people was sitting by me on the plane he first husband . It 's funny you would mention Rose . Did you hear from her ? Willcox pours out whisky .
DADDY: Well , yes , in a manner of speaking . You 'll have the back bedroom , son , Mother 's old art room . Just be careful going down the stairs you do n't break your Yankee neck .
WILLCOX HILLYER: What 's all this about Rose ? What do you mean , you heard from her in a manner of speaking ?
DADDY: Oh , I heard from her , I got a letter from her , she 's fine . But there is some sad news .
WILLCOX HILLYER: What sad news ? Did her cancer come ack ?
DADDY: Oh , no , no , she got all over that . Rose is fine . Let 's sit down , son .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Is her husband sick or something ?
DADDY: No , it 's another thing . I was going to write you about it , but since you were coming down anyway I thought I 'd wait till you got here . What did Dave Wilkie have to say ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: The pitiful son of a bitch said Rose was a nymphomaniac .
DADDY: Um-hmm , and I suppose that incensed you ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: You 're damn right it incensed me , the miserable bastard . He also said the kikes and the niggers have taken over Washington . D.C .
DADDY: Yeah , I know , he was up here . It 's pitiful like you say . When he lost Rose it ruined the man , it destroyed him totally when he lost Rose .
WILLCOX HILLYER: He did n't lose her , he threw he away .
DADDY: Yes , I guess he did . He threw he away and it was the mistake of his life .
WILLCOX HILLYER: You know , I do n't know this town any more . All this traffic , new uildings , prosperity Where have the years gone , Daddy ? Where is the little town I knew as a boy ?
DADDY: At rest in the creative universe with Mother , son .
WILLCOX HILLYER: That 's what she would say herself .
DADDY: A wonderful woman , boy .
WILLCOX HILLYER: It always gives me a funny feeling to come home . Dear old Southland . Gone . It 's all gone , Daddy except you , you 're still here .
DADDY: Not for long , boy . I 've outstayed my welcome already .
WILLCOX HILLYER: It 's funny you would mention Rose , I was thinking about her all the way up in the car . Or maybe it is n't so funny .
DADDY: I 'm older than hell , boy . But this Yankee whisky is mighty fine , I 'll say that .
WILLCOX HILLYER: All right , Daddy . We have ou drink , we 're out on the patio , you have prepared me for it . Rose 's cancer has come back , has n't it ?
DADDY: No , son , she is dead .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Dead , Rose is dead ? You mean she died ?
DADDY: I am afraid so , son . About a week ago . Her husband phoned me , she had asked him to call me if anything happened .
WILLCOX HILLYER: But but how ? She was young ! Rose was n't old !
DADDY: She was fifty-six , son . Of course she did n't look it , nowhere nea it . The cancer came back , I 'm afraid I fibbed about that . But it was very quick , son . She was in the hospital only two weeks , and the last week she did n't know anything .
WILLCOX HILLYER: Excuse me , I 'll be right back .
DADDY: I know . You loved her . So did I . It was an awful shock to me , too . An awful shock . Rose was so alive it 's hard to believe .
WILLCOX HILLYER: I ca n't believe it , Daddy . I know it must be true , but I ca n't elieve it .
DADDY: It 's true , son . The girl with the cornflower eyes is dead , she is no more ,
WILLCOX HILLYER: Why Rose ? Why Rose , Daddy ?
DADDY: Nobody lives forever , boy . Who 'd want to ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: That 's a hell of a thing to say . Why , Rose ?
DADDY: Now look , boy , get a grip on yourself . Rose had a good life . She found her . Right , did n't she ? She triumphed over everything , what are you blubbering about ?
WILLCOX HILLYER: I 'm not blubbering .
DADDY: Rose is n't dead , son . Not really . Some of us die , but some of us do n't . Rose lives . As long as some little girl somewhere gets herself up and goes out , Rose lives .
LEWIS: Shit . Maintenance never gets down here .
SINGLETERRY: So what am I supposed to do ? Ca n't transfer him to Leavenworth . He 's civilian . So I put him in an isolation cell that has n't been used since the Spanish Inquisition .
TRAUTMAN: Maybe you should have tried cutting him some slack .
SINGLETERRY: Tranquilizer syrette gun . Borrowed it from the Animal Control Department .
TRAUTMAN: Gim me a break . Open it .
LEWIS: Thinks he 's the fucking Prince of Darkness .
TRAUTMAN: At ease , Rambo .
RAMBO: Colonel .
TRAUTMAN: Mind if I sit down ?
RAMBO: I could take it or leave it . Trautman sighs and leans back .
TRAUTMAN: Seems like I 'm always pulling you out of some goddamn toilet or other , does n't it ?
RAMBO: Am I out of here ?
TRAUTMAN: That depends on you . Christ , look at you . I give you this easy duty until I can get you an assignment all you have to do is eat ice cream and watch soap operas and you have to make it Rambo 's last stand .
RAMBO: There were treating me like a headcase .
TRAUTMAN: Hard to believe . You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun one little dogpatch town and everybody figures your wrapper 's broken . No sense of humor . What did you expect ? An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce ?
RAMBO: In 'Nam I flew gunships . Million dollar equipment . Back here nobody trusts me to park cars . I keep thinking it 's going to be okay ut I 've been out six years and it 's not okay . Sometimes I feel like I 'm coming right out of my skin .
TRAUTMAN: This your stuff ?
RAMBO: That 's it . My life .
TRAUTMAN: Hardcore outfit . The best I eve trained .
RAMBO: Those men are all dead .
TRAUTMAN: You 're not .
RAMBO: Yeah . Big time .
TRAUTMAN: Plus , what else ? Two Silver Stars , four Bronze Stars , two Soldier 's Medals , four Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry and uh , a handful of Purple Hearts .
RAMBO: Five . I never wanted that stuff .
TRAUTMAN: What did you want ?
RAMBO: I just wanted I do n't know after all that I just wanted one person , one person , to come up to me and say `` you did good , John . '' And mean it . That 's all . After all that .
TRAUTMAN: You just picked that wrong war to be a hero in .
KIRKHILL: Good to meet you , Rambo . How are you ?
RAMBO: You a spook ? Kirkhill drops the smile .
KIRKHILL: That 's right . CIA Special Operations Division . Rambo turns to Trautman .
RAMBO: I do n't work with spooks . Not afte that op in Cambodia .
KIRKHILL: I 'm authorized to get you out of here . I thought that 's what you wanted .
RAMBO: What 's the job ?
KIRKHILL: Classic special forces op hit fast in and out . Two men . Two days .
RAMBO: Why me ?
KIRKHILL: We like you . At least the computer at Langley likes you . Pulled your file because of various factors . Service record . Area familiarity .
RAMBO: Where ?
KIRKHILL: Not yet .
RAMBO: I 'm not jumping blind . Kirkhill 's eyes get hard .
KIRKHILL: It 's yes or no . In or out now . If it 's `` out , '' we will not have had this conversation . If you come in , you will not be working for us . No knowledge . No comment . Do you understand ? Rambo seems about to turn away .
TRAUTMAN: Tell him . I 'll take responsibility . Kirkhill looks pained , like he has gas .
KIRKHILL: North Vietnam . What they call the Democratic Republic of Vietnam now .
TRAUTMAN: We left some people behind there , John POWs .
RAMBO: This just occurred to somebody , now ?
KIRKHILL: We do n't leave our men , Rambo . Rambo and Trautman lock eyes .
RAMBO: You got it . I 'm in .
KIRKHILL: This is your mission packet
AIDE: Sign here , please . And here .
KIRKHILL: Memorize it here . It does n't leave this room .
RAMBO: What 's the plan ?
KIRKHILL: This operation is in two phases . Recon and rescue . You are phase one . Your two-man team will probe the site , confirm the presence of American POWs , if any , make photographic and tactical observations , then proceed to the extraction point without engaging the enemy .
RAMBO: We do n't try to pull out any of ou guys if we find them ?
KIRKHILL: Negative . Absolutely not . The phase two assault team will get them out .
RAMBO: We just take pictures ?
KIRKHILL: Do n't look so disappointed . It should be hairy enough even fo you .
MAN: Sorry old buddy , I saw it first .
RAMBO: Same place for me .
MAN: Ah , you fair flower of the Orient . She giggles , like a chirping bird .
RAMBO: Sometimes .
THAI GIRL: You got money ? I stay you whole week .
MAN: Sweet thing , there 's nothin ' I 'd like more than to wugga-wugga with you for a week , but tonight 's all we got .
RAMBO: That 's enough , Brewer .
BREWER: You 're Rambo ? Ke-rist ! Rambo speaks sharply to the girl in Thai .
RAMBO: Get out . Now !
BREWER: Jeez , I never would have guessed . You undercover , Lieutenant ? Great disguise .
TRAUTMAN: That 's correct .
BREWER: Begging the Colonel 's pardon but I understood I was up to lead my next mission .
TRAUTMAN: Not this one . You 're on communications and camera . Same image-intensified gear you used in El Salvador last year .
RAMBO: This clown almost blew mission security on the street . I 'm not jumping with him .
BREWER: Clown ? Now back up there , buddy
TRAUTMAN: Listen up . You two are married as of now . Get used to it .
RAMBO: I say we tape him to a chair .
KIRKHILL: I did n't know you were a stick man , Rambo .
RAMBO: I was crossed-trained in gunships .
TRAUTMAN: How long have you been setting up ?
KIRKHILL: About 22 hours on site .
TRAUTMAN: Nice work .
KIRKHILL: This is a covert operation , numbnuts .
BREWER: Mission control !
RAMBO: All this is for us ?
KIRKHILL: That 's right .
BREWER: They call us the field-unit meat- puppets .
RAMBO: No .
MAN: Just have to jump fast .
RAMBO: You the pilot ?
MAN: Yeah . Doyle . Lifer and Fuhrman .
RAMBO: You boys Air Force ?
DOYLE: Marines . 'Ex ' though . We 're private contractors now .
LIFER: You ever do a tour 'in-country ' ?
RAMBO: Two . 'Eye-corps ' mostly .
DOYLE: How about you ?
BREWER: Vietnam was a little before my time . So was Korea , know what I mean ?
DOYLE: A straight dash across the Laotian panhandle , through the Annamese Mountains some good dicey bits there and on to the drop zone . Eighteen minutes each way in communist airspace .
RAMBO: We go low to stay off radar ?
DOYLE: In the rhubarb , babe .
FUHRMAN: Mowin ' the lawn .
LIFER: Dig it .
TRAUTMAN: How long before you 're fully on line ?
KIRKHILL: Couple hours . Let me buy you a coffee .
TRAUTMAN: You think they 'll find any ?
KIRKHILL: POWs ? I do n't know . But eithe way it 'll get that subcommittee off our necks . Cream ?
TRAUTMAN: Black . No sugar .
KIRKHILL: The League of Families leans on Congress . Then they lean on us . Like we do n't have enough to worry about in a dozen dirtwate countries . Damnit ! He pounds the machine , which refuses to vend .
DOYLE: A couple klicks from insertion we go vertical to ten thousand and you punch out . Navigate in free fall like a regular HALO jump . You 'll have a good moon .
LIFER: I got your moon right here
BREWER: No problem . Duck soup .
DOYLE: Hey , man we got fuel on the deck . I do n't like flying without a plane .
RAMBO: No smoking on this mission . It 's not healthy .
BREWER: Son of a bitch ! Rambo saunters away .
DOYLE: Nice trick . Works nine times out of ten .
RAMBO: Again .
BREWER: Insertion . Call in to base camp by TRANSAT . Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with ou ground contact . Indigenous agent . Co Phuong Bao . We 've been over this three times .
RAMBO: You stopped . Brewer rolls his eyes .
BREWER: Co Phuong Bao . The guide takes us twelve klicks upriver to target at Ban at Ban Bo Peep . Shit !
RAMBO: Start over .
BREWER: to target at Ban Kia Na . We probe the site
RAMBO: Ninety .
BREWER: then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta . Doyle takes us out by helicopter , we all live happily ever after and that 's the last time , Rambo ! I swear to Christ .
RAMBO: One hundred .
BREWER: Gettin ' old , huh ?
RAMBO: Yeah . Second set . Let 's go .
BREWER: Transponder-satellite relay .
RAMBO: Show me how it operates .
BREWER: That 's what I 'm here for .
RAMBO: Show me in case you get zapped as soon as we land .
BREWER: We 're leaving tonight , not in a week . He sees Rambo 's expression .
BREWER: Yeah . Why not ?
RAMBO: You break your leg , I 'll have to shoot you . He turns and vanishes in the dark .
DOYLE: I think he means it .
BREWER: Crazy fucker .
DOYLE: Well , son . You got that right . Anybody ever tell you about that guy ? Brewer turns quizzically toward him .
BREWER: What about him ?
RAMBO: Let 's do it .
TRAUTMAN: Keep it clean , Rambo , or I 'll nail your hide to the shed .
RAMBO: You got it , sir . Trautman exits and the steps are rolled away .
DOYLE: Zen Rollercoaster , requesting clearance .
VOICE: You are cleared , Zen Rollercoaster .
FUHRMAN: Switching communications to burst mode .
TECHNICIAN: AWACS Two-Five has acquired . They are holding timeline .
DOYLE: Here comes the sexy part .
BREWER: Whoo-ya ! I love it !
RAMBO: Stay tight on me , Brewer . I do n't want to have to go looking for you .
BREWER: Check .
TECHNICIAN: AWACS Niner-One via Subic Bay eports them approaching insertion . Five-by-Five .
FARMER: Son of a bitch !
DOYLE: Approaching ten thousand . Eleven seconds to insertion . Ten , nine Slowing to two-thirty
LIFER: Go !
RAMBO: You read me , Brewer ?
RAMBO: Man , what are you doing back here ?
TECH: It 's coming in .
KIRKHILL: They 're in ! On the money .
RAMBO: What do you call that ?
BREWER: Modified M-16 A2 and over-under M-79 grenade launcher , with Sionics sound suppressor , Tracor starlight scope and LAC/R-100 Laser sighting system .
RAMBO: Batteries not included .
BREWER: This is state-of-the-art firepower .
RAMBO: What 's this ?
BREWER: AC-System 'Big-Ear ' telescopic mike with built-in audio processor . Can pull a whisper out of a loud cocktail party at 50 meters . Rambo gazes around him .
RAMBO: Cocktail party . Uh huh , right . Let 's saddle up .
BREWER: Where 's your stuff ? Rambo flips open his rucksack .
RAMBO: There 's a compass in the handle .
BREWER: And a beat-to-shit AK ? Every twelve-year-old in Nam 's got one of those .
RAMBO: Exactly .
BREWER: Uh this thing 's pretty heavy . You got room for it ? Rambo snorts disgustedly .
RAMBO: No .
BREWER: I was in the brig . They gave me a deal . I blew up this Colonel 's golf cart with an M-19 . He was n't in it or anything it was the symbolic value . Seemed like a good idea at the time .
RAMBO: That 's a real good reason to wind up in 'Nam .
BREWER: I 've seen worse places .
RAMBO: There are no worse places .
BREWER: This place is a trip .
RAMBO: Buddhist monastery . Fifteenth century .
BREWER: Damn ! Leeches .
RAMBO: Get used to 'em .
BREWER: You fucking crazy ? I need it to urn these things off .
RAMBO: No cigarettes .
BREWER: I had it cupped .
RAMBO: Listen real careful , freshmeat . I do n't know why they sent you . Maybe they did n't want to waste a good man . But you screw up once more and I 'll kill you myself . Rambo whips away , moves quietly off .
BREWER: Man , are you strict .
WOMAN: You come here see Buddha ask fo truth ? Or just lost ?
BREWER: Should I waste her ?
RAMBO: I 'm not lost . Just looking fo someone .
WOMAN: Someone called maybe 'Night Orchid ' ?
RAMBO: That 's right .
WOMAN: I 'm Co Phuong Bao .
RAMBO: She 's our contact .
BREWER: I did n't know you spoke Vietnamese .
RAMBO: I 'm Rambo . This is Brewer . Her name is Co .
CO: It means `` virgin . '' My mother was comedian .
BREWER: Howdy , Co .
CO: University of Saigon . Have Masters Degree in economics . Not use too much now Communists in charge . You got time want to eat ?
RAMBO: Sure . Whattaya got ?
CO: Nuac mam .
RAMBO: You really got a Masters Degree ?
CO: Sure . I only sound like forty-year- old in your language .
BREWER: What 's this stuff on the rice ?
RAMBO: Fermented fish sauce .
CO: I have arranged transportation . We meet soon . But I think you to be disappointed .
RAMBO: Why 's that ?
CO: I go up to this camp two months ago . Nobody there . Empty for years . Rambo stops , puzzled .
RAMBO: Why would they send us to a deserted camp ?
BREWER: Who cares ? Let 's just do it and get out . Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok . Know what I mean ?
RAMBO: We 'll check it out .
BREWER: How come we did n't just drop nea the camp save this hassle ?
RAMBO: Brewer . Does a jet make noise ?
BREWER: Yeah
CO: Where did you find this clown ?
RAMBO: I thought he was with you .
CO: Crazy motherfucker .
BREWER: What 's she saying ?
RAMBO: She likes you . Says you 're dinky- dau .
BREWER: What 's that ?
RAMBO: Powerful warrior .
BREWER: Yeah . Dinky-dau , that 's me . Hey , Co. You wan na meet Jake the one- eyed snake ?
RAMBO: Sometimes they do . They 're rive pirates . Opium runners .
BREWER: Pirates ? No kidding ?
RAMBO: Thank you , Captain , for you hospitality . You speak English very well .
BREWER: Looks like my room in college .
CO: We sleep here today . Safe here while go up river .
RAMBO: What about patrol boats ?
KIRKHILL: No , sir we 're already committed . They 're in the jungle right now . I say we play the hand through if they find something we just bury the eport later . It 's still airtight . Yes , sir . He hangs up . Runs a hand through his hair .
AIDE: Oh , boy . It 's getting dicey .
KIRKHILL: What 's up ?
TRAUTMAN: Listen , Kirkhill . I 'm a bit of a fifth wheel in your setup here I thought I 'd go out with the extraction team tonight . Unless you have an objection .
KIRKHILL: It 's not necessary .
TRAUTMAN: I know .
KIRKHILL: That 's a pretty hairy ride . Full Colonels are supposed to be above that sort of thing .
TRAUTMAN: I know
KIRKHILL: Have fun .
RAMBO: Have some armpit sauce . Brewer groans . Opens a C-ration can .
CO: Spooks ?
RAMBO: Intelligence work .
CO: Oh . They talk to me at university efore fall of Saigon . Make deal .
BREWER: Everybody 's makin ' deals .
CO: My brother captain in ARVN need papers to go United States , or North Vietnamese will execute . They make deal I stay here and do work my brother and my son can go United States .
RAMBO: Your son ?
CO: Nguyen . He twelve now . Not see him for eight years .
RAMBO: Where 's his father ? Co shrugs .
CO: Dead . Killed in war .
RAMBO: Where 's Nguyen now ? What city ?
CO: Huntington Beach , California .
RAMBO: It 's nice there . He 's probably digging every minute . Got a surfboard . Breaking girls ' hearts .
CO: Nguyen is good boy .
BREWER: Some hardened guerrilla fighter they gave us . Rambo freezes him out with an evil look .
CO: River patrol !
RAMBO: How you doing , Brewer ?
BREWER: I need a vacation .
RAMBO: Check the tower with your scope .
BREWER: Nobody home . Wait a minute ! Cigarette .
RAMBO: Guard barracks . Take some shots .
BREWER: Breathing . Moaning . Shit !
RAMBO: Bad dreams . Prisoner 's barracks . Shoot some . Brewer clicks away .
CO: Cyclo-girl whore from village . Business slow there .
RAMBO: She 's making him a pretty good deal .
BREWER: It 's a guy in a cage .
RAMBO: American ?
BREWER: Ca n't tell . Pretty tall . He 's real scrunched up in that thing .
RAMBO: Let me see .
BREWER: Alright . Home run .
RAMBO: Torture cage . Ca n't stand ca n't sit for days . Sometimes weeks .
BREWER: Bastards . Let 's get some shots .
RAMBO: That guy 's not going to make it .
BREWER: What ? Are you crazy ? We 're supposed to take pictures and split . You 're gon na blow the whole program .
RAMBO: You never been in one of those things .
BREWER: I suppose you have
RAMBO: You take pictures and split . I 'm going in .
BREWER: Fuck it . Fuck it . Aw ke-rist . Then a slow grin spreads .
PRISONER: Who 're you ?
RAMBO: American . Come to get you out .
PRISONER: Man , you are one scary-looking motherfucker !
RAMBO: Can you walk ?
PRISONER: I could a couple of days ago . Gon na e stiff .
RAMBO: What 's your name ?
PRISONER: De Fravio . Dave De Fravio . Lieutenant Air Force .
RAMBO: Good to meet you , Dave . I 'm Rambo . Okay , I 'm going to carry you . Do n't cough or make any noise .
DE FRAVIO: Sure thing , Rambo . You gettin ' the other guys , too ?
RAMBO: Not this time . We 'll be back .
DE FRAVIO: You guys are real are n't you ?
BREWER: Huh ?
DE FRAVIO: Sorry , I mean I talk to people all the time I know a lot of them are n't there . But this is real , is n't it ? You 're taking me home now ?
BREWER: That 's right , buddy .
DE FRAVIO: Thank God thank you
RAMBO: We 'd better go for the emergency LZ at point Zulu Sierra . Tell them we 've got some heat but do n't mention De Fravio . Brewer starts typing .
TECH: You 're go for extraction . Mr. Kirkhill says wind 'er up . Here 's the hardcopy . Trautman takes the printout .
TRAUTMAN: Alternate LZ Zulu Sierra at 0500 . It says `` May have heat . Do n't be late . All our love . ''
DOYLE: Let 's get that tent down !
DE FRAVIO: I got ta tell you , it 's just luck you guys came when you did . They move us around a lot We only been at that camp a week . Got a smoke ?
BREWER: No .
DE FRAVIO: What kind of raggedy-ass rescue you call this ?
RAMBO: Why were you in the box ?
DE FRAVIO: Well , I caught this cobra , see
BREWER: You mean the snake ?
DE FRAVIO: Yeah . It 's not hard once you get the hang of it . In the wrist . Anyway , I did what I always do when I get one
BREWER: What 's that ?
DE FRAVIO: Put it in the guard 's barracks . Man they got pissed . They beat the crap out of me , but it 's kind of a tradition . You oughta see 'em run around .
RAMBO: You got a bad attitude . De Fravio grins , showing bad teeth as well .
DE FRAVIO: I know it .
CO: Eat slowly . Do n't make yourself sick . She exits with the dirty cooking utensils .
BREWER: Twenty-five minutes . We 'd bette oll . Rambo freezes looks down .
KINH: Wa-ky number ten . Do-ma .
DE FRAVIO: Yeah , fuck your mama-san , too . In the Kinh backhands him to the deck .
BREWER: You slope bitch !
DE FRAVIO: Wow !
BREWER: What just happened ? Rambo moves over to Co. She seems to sag , depleted . In shock . He takes the .45 from her limp fingers .
RAMBO: Are you okay ?
CO: Yes . But I lose many merits in next life . Very bad .
RAMBO: Why 'd they want us ?
CO: They heard about escaped prisoner on adio . Make deal . More than we pay .
BREWER: They sold us out ? Now I 'm pissed .
CO: They were fools . To think there would be reward . And to ask my help . Rambo puts his hands on her shoulders .
RAMBO: Thanks .
CO: Rambo . NVA coming . Pig dog Kinh say meet them here . Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out .
RAMBO: Let 's go .
LIFER: Back in Indian country . Just like old times . He racks the bolt on his M-60 and grins .
BREWER: Let 's ditch this Transat . We do n't need it .
RAMBO: Bury it here . Work fast . Brewer gets out his entrenching tool .
BREWER: Ai n't you coming with us , sweet thing ?
CO: My orders stay here .
RAMBO: See you in California . Her grin is ironic .
CO: Land of big PX . Maybe I take you for a ride in my Cadillac .
FUHRMAN: Three minutes .
VOICE: Zen Hammer this is Slam Dunk One , do you copy ? Over .
FUHRMAN: Roger , Slam Dunk One what is you position ?
RAMBO: Zen Hammer the heat 's on . We 're taking fire . Watch for my smoke . Red and green . Northwest corner of a big paddy . Let 's move .
BREWER: Go for it , man . Good therapy .
FUHRMAN: Roger we have you on visual . We are coming in . How many are you ?
TRAUTMAN: Relay to command . They have one of ours .
TELECOM TECH: Mr. Kirkhill I have an AWACS elay . Zen Hammer reports the ground team has an American POW with them .
KIRKHILL: What did you say ?
TELECOM TECH: They 've got one of ours .
KIRKHILL: This station is now on Condition Bravo . Harrison . Meyers . Goodell . Out now !
FUHRMAN: Say again , Coach One ?
TRAUTMAN: Confirm it .
FUHRMAN: It is confirmed . Coach One we have them in sight Yes , sir . Doyle looks at both of them and shrugs .
DOYLE: Turnin ' around .
FUHRMAN: I thought you liked those guys .
DOYLE: I do . But they ai n't payin ' the ent , Jack .
TRAUTMAN: Stay on your heading , Captain .
DOYLE: Sorry , Sir . Ca n't do it .
TRAUTMAN: That 's an order .
DOYLE: Sorry , Sir .
LIFER: We ai n't Uncle Sam 's misguided children no more , Colonel . We 're independent contractors .
FUHRMAN: That 's right , Sir . We do n't like this , but we are working for Mr. Kirkhill .
TRAUTMAN: You pathetic scum .
DOYLE: Well , if there were n't POWs before , there are now .
BREWER: Where 's he going ? Hey , Zen Hammer , where are you going ? Do you read , Zen Hammer ? Over . Son of a bitch ! They 're ditching us !
DE FRAVIO: Oh God . It gets quiet .
KIRKHILL: Have a drink .
TRAUTMAN: Why ?
KIRKHILL: You got five hours ? I 'll tell you about Secretaries of State , and funding committees and diplomatic elations
TRAUTMAN: Take your time .
KIRKHILL: Look , Colonel we 're all adults here . This is a war . A very quiet , very intense war . People get sacrificed .
TRAUTMAN: Not my people . Kirkhill freezes , glancing down .
KIRKHILL: You think I 'm some whacko ? I like to hurt people ? I 'm doing a jo here . If I knew what 's right o wrong I 'd be a goddamned priest , ight ? So I follow directives I do what I 'm told . It 's simple . If your boy had done what he was told , there would n't be a problem .
TRAUTMAN: Do n't dance me , Kirkhill . You 'll be walking funny .
KIRKHILL: Look , it was a screw-up , alright ? They were n't supposed to find anything . We thought that camp was empty .
TRAUTMAN: This mission was a scam from the word go ?
KIRKHILL: Word came down they wanted an answer . And they knew the answe they wanted no POWs . But it had to look good . Best effort . The whole dog-and-pony show .
TRAUTMAN: Rambo and Brewer were selected as write-offs .
KIRKHILL: It was clean . Very clean Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet , a former POW himself if he came out and said `` No POWs '' the sub-committee would buy it . He gets himself caught he 's a private citizen , a whacko , acting on his own . If he gets proof , it gets lost somewhere etween here and D.C. Airtight . But no Rambo 's got ta be a hero . Thinks he 's starring in his own wa movie or something . He put me in a corner . No choice .
TRAUTMAN: `` Terminate with extreme prejudice . ''
KIRKHILL: That 's a crock . We do n't say that . Do you have any idea the shitstorm if he 'd gotten back with that guy ? If it went public ? The White House would have to act through channels . We 're talking ransom . Four billion ucks in war reparations to Vietnam to get the others back . That 's illion , Colonel . With a `` B '' . Fo a few guys that 've had their brains in a blender for ten years ? A pain in the ass to everybody ? No way . There 's no way .
TRAUTMAN: So there never was a Phase Two escue team ?
KIRKHILL: Of course not . You ca n't get approval to rescue a kitten from a tree after Tehran . After a long silence , Trautman nods .
TRAUTMAN: I understand .
KIRKHILL: Here . Drink . Trautman does n't take the glass .
TRAUTMAN: I understand your position . I understand how a maggot like you can just slide out of a jam on a trail of slime . And call it expedience . Expedience !
KIRKHILL: You 're out of your depth , Trautman . Way out . I 'm acting correctly here . Not you . Not your gung-ho jungle ace . It 's over . Walk away .
TRAUTMAN: It 's not over . You made one mistake .
KIRKHILL: What that ?
TRAUTMAN: Rambo .
BREWER: Are they going to torture us ?
RAMBO: Yes .
BREWER: What whattaya do ?
RAMBO: Hope they kill you by mistake .
GUARD: No talk !
BREWER: This ai n't happening .
JENSEN: We were pulling for you , Dave . We hoped you 'd make it .
DE FRAVIO: Next time .
JENSEN: It 's those Russian interrogators again . Everyone looks grim .
PODOVSK: Put him in the chair .
PODOVSK: I was sent here because of my command of your language . It will e frustrating if we can not have a nice chat . Very frustrating . Ready ?
BREWER: Bastards !
PODOVSK: Nyet ! Nyet !
CO: We get out . Split up . They not want me .
RAMBO: You are amazing . Co is furious at his dawdling .
CO: Di di mau ! Go ! Go !
PALYUSHIN: Find ! Now !
TAY: Where 's Trang ? The other guards look around , puzzled .
GUARD: Vuoc ? You alright ?
TAY: Bui ? Phong ? Than ? There is no answer .
TRAUTMAN: Bob , hi . Did you get my telex ? Yeah , I know what time it is there do you know what time it is here ? Look , is there anything you can do up the line ? You owe me one . I 'm calling it in . Yes , this time . I know you 're a general and I 'm only a colonel . So that 's it , huh ? Back off . Come home that 's it ? Thanks , buddy .
CORPORAL: Yes , sir .
DE FRAVIO: Hey , Brewer . You okay ?
BREWER: I could use a beer .
DE FRAVIO: Your buddy made it out last night . The place went apeshit .
BREWER: Really ? How come he did n't take me ?
DE FRAVIO: Maybe because you 're shot in the leg .
BREWER: Oh , yeah . Listen , how long do they keep you in this disease hole ?
JENSEN: Who knows ? I was in there for a month once . De Fravio did three months .
BREWER: How do you keep from coming unglued ?
JENSEN: Concentrate on a problem . Like , I uilt my dream house in my head , ick by brick . Board by board . If something really takes a day , I thought about it for a whole day . Like that .
DE FRAVIO: I built a shopping mall .
JENSEN: Guards . See ya .
BREWER: Watch it . Do n't fuck with me , man ! I 'm dinky dau ! The guards guffaw and drag him off .
PODOVSK: I think you know where he is going . Is there a rendezvous point ? Some guerrilla contract ? A transmitte perhaps .
BREWER: No way . If I say anything that 's three . The interrogator scowls , briefly perplexed .
PODOVSK: I can not be responsible for the safety of the prisoners if he is not captured . This government now considers the existence of POWs an embarrassment . An unmarked grave in the jungle may be their solution . I am only an advisor .
BREWER: Advise my dick , you Siberian scumbag .
RAMBO: Keep driving .
VINH: You see ? Not a demon . A man . Now , we find where he 's crawled to die .
BREWER: This your first day ?
PODOVSK: You think you can provoke us into eating you unconscious ? We are not that unskilled .
BREWER: I 've had it with you , ratface . Do n't piss me off !
TECH: More AWACS intercepts . The Russian takes time to translate . Kirkhill scans a long PRINTOUT TRANSCRIPT .
KIRKHILL: He 's giving them a run for thei money . Says here they 've got two Hueys from Danang . I did n't know those dinks had Hueys .
TECH: Half their air force is our stuff . Captured .
KIRKHILL: Typical
TECH: Sir , there 's something else a TRANSAT relay . Just came through .
KIRKHILL: What ? He snatches the sheet from the tech .
VOICE: You not so hard to catch , dinky dau Rambo .
RAMBO: Christ . How 'd you get here ?
CO: Took bus , most of way . I knew you would come here .
RAMBO: And how 'd you sneak up like that ?
CO: Carefully . Do n't want to get shot y you . Bad karma . Anyway , you need me .
RAMBO: I do ?
CO: You think you are .
RAMBO: Invulnerable .
CO: In-vul-nerabo . But you get ass kicked without me . Rambo has to laugh .
RAMBO: Yeah . We 're a pretty good team .
CO: You look like hell . Wounds infected . Come up to the ruins , I have medical kit .
RAMBO: Yeah . Got some business there . What are you gon na do ?
CO: Go United States . See Nguyen . Maybe teach economics . Buy Cadillac . Watch `` Dynasty . ''
RAMBO: How you going to get there ? You ca n't trust the spooks to pull you out . They 'll use you up and throw you away .
CO: I know . I go with you .
RAMBO: I could n't get you in . Co stops her work and replies very quietly .
CO: Yes you can .
RAMBO: How ?
CO: As wife .
RAMBO: Okay . Done . You got it .
CO: You too easy .
RAMBO: Look , Co
CO: Why you do n't feel love ? Not allowed ? Dead inside , maybe ? You make yourself dead already so they ca n't kill you ? In-vulnerabo ? Bullshit !
PALYUSHIN: Get your men back . I 'm beginning an attack run .
CO: What was that ?
RAMBO: Minigun . Come on . Let 's move . He 's coming in on our open side .
PALYUSHIN: Return to staging area . We have to eload .
CO: Dinky-dau-Rambo .
RAMBO: John . My name is John .
CO: It does n't hurt . Why does n't it hurt ?
PALYUSHIN: Air Two , circle in a holding pattern . Air Three , are you in position ?
PILOT: Ready , Air Command .
PODOVSK: One .
RAMBO: you 're gon na love it there . It 'll be great . We can do what we want you and me go to the each with Nguyen watch him idin ' his surfboard
PILOT: 500 meters . Final approach .
RAMBO: 'Palm . He spins and runs , leaving his rifle .
KIRKHILL: Well , have they got him yet ? The tech rereads the COMINT transcript .
TECH: Um actually , no . It looks like he shot down one of thei gunships
KIRKHILL: Christ almighty .
TECH: and then he , uh took the other one .
KIRKHILL: What ?
TECH: He took it . Kirkhill sinks slowly into a chair .
BREWER: Gawd , you look awful .
RAMBO: You comin ' ?
BREWER: Hold your pantyhose . Here , gim me a hand .
RAMBO: Can you handle the door gun ?
BREWER: Duck soup .
DE FRAVIO: Am I dreaming this ? This is not eal , right ? I oughta grease you pricks , but I 've known you too long .
RAMBO: Let 's go , De Fravio . Move it !
BREWER: We got company . You better pull some pitch , buddy .
RAMBO: Brewer ! You know what that thing 's packing ?
BREWER: It 's a Soviet MIL MI-24 . Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon , heat-seeking ockets and wire guided missiles , plus
RAMBO: Forget it .
DE FRAVIO: I think I 'm gon na be sick .
PILOT: They 're approaching the border . Should we notify the Laotian Ai Force ?
PODOVSK: No . We 'll take them ourselves .
BREWER: Hell . This is just like fucking Star Wars , man !
DE FRAVIO: Star Wars ?
BREWER: You 're gon na love it .
RAMBO: How much we got left in that minigun ?
BREWER: Pretty low . Couple of seconds worth .
PILOT: We 're in Laos , Sir .
PODOVSK: I know that ! Fire all your rockets . Take him down !
BREWER: The thrill of victory , the agony of defeat !
LIFER: Hey , Colonel . You 're not cleared to e on this base anymore .
TRAUTMAN: I know .
BREWER: and there 's this guy with a lack helmet and cape , right , and he 's got this sword except it 's not a sword , it 's light
DE FRAVIO: There 's the Mekong .
KIRKHILL: When the unidentified helicopter has crossed the river into Thailand , shoot it down with air-to-ai ockets . Then proceed to the crash site and fire your remaining rockets into the wreckage . Is this understood , Zen Hammer ?
TRAUTMAN: Escort them on in .
RAMBO: Mission accomplished . Pulls the trigger . The weapon CLICKS , EMPTY . HOLD ON KIRKHILL , trembling .
BREWER: Cover of Time Magazine , baby ! Rambo walks away alone .
DE FRAVIO: You did good , buddy . Real good !
BRIGITTE: You did n't wake me .
MICHAEL: You were sleeping .
BRIGITTE: You let me sleep because you ca n't ear to have breakfast with me .
MICHAEL: Nothing could be further from the truth . I boiled you an egg . See ?
BRIGITTE: Does any woman ever stay long enough to find out what the hell goes on in your head ?
MICHAEL: I 'm seeing my daughter .
BRIGITTE: Your daughter ? You 've kept very quiet about her .
MICHAEL: Have I ? She 's been abroad for a year . Did you say tea ?
BRIGITTE: I 'm going . Give my love to you daughter .
HANNA: Hey . Hey !
MICHAEL: I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry .
HANNA: Where do you live ?
MICHAEL: It 's here . I 'll be fine now . Thank you .
HANNA: Look after yourself .
CARLA: I 'm worried about him . He looks terrible .
PETER: The boy 's saying he does n't need a doctor .
EMILY: He does .
MICHAEL: I do n't need a doctor .
PETER: Good then .
CARLA: Peter .
PETER: We 're not going to argue about this . People have to take esponsibility for their own lives .
DOCTOR: Remind me , how old are you now ?
CARLA: Michael 's fifteen .
DOCTOR: It 's scarlet fever . He 'll be in bed for several months . At least .
CARLA: Keep away . He 's contagious .
DOCTOR: Burn the sheets . Complete isolation . And three months is the minimum .
CARLA: How are you feeling ?
MICHAEL: Better . By the way , I meant to tell you , the day I got ill a woman helped me . A woman in the street .
CARLA: She helped you ?
MICHAEL: Yes . She brought me home .
CARLA: Do you have her address ?
HANNA: Come in .
MICHAEL: I brought you these flowers . To say thank you .
HANNA: Put them down there .
MICHAEL: I would have come earlier , but I 've een in bed for three months .
HANNA: You 're better now ?
MICHAEL: Thank you .
HANNA: Have you always been weak ?
MICHAEL: Oh no . I 'd never been ill before . It 's incredibly boring . There 's nothing to do . I could n't even be othered to read .
HANNA: I have to go to work . I 'll walk with you . Wait in the hall while I change .
MICHAEL: You 're so incredibly beautiful .
HANNA: Now , kid , you know that 's not true .
PETER: You 've inconvenienced your mother .
MICHAEL: How many more times ? I 've said I 'm sorry .
PETER: You scared her .
MICHAEL: It 's hardly my fault , I got lost , that 's all . That 's why I was late . Can I have some more ?
EMILY: How can anyone get lost in thei own home town ?
MICHAEL: The doctor told me I had to take walks .
EMILY: So ?
MICHAEL: I meant to head for the castle , I ended up at the sports-field .
EMILY: They 're in opposite directions .
MICHAEL: It 's none of your business .
EMILY: He 's lying .
CARLA: He 's not lying . Michael never lies .
MICHAEL: Dad , I 've decided , I want to go ack to school tomorrow .
CARLA: The doctor says you need anothe three weeks .
MICHAEL: Well I 'm going .
CARLA: Peter ?
PETER: If he wants to go back , then he must .
HANNA: All right , kid , it 's not just about you .
MICHAEL: What 's your name ?
HANNA: What ?
MICHAEL: Your name .
HANNA: Why do you want to know ?
MICHAEL: I 've been here three times . You have n't told me your name .
HANNA: It 's Hanna . What 's yours , kid ?
MICHAEL: Michael .
HANNA: Michael . Hmm . So I 'm with a Michael .
MICHAEL: ` Hanna ' .
TEACHER: The notion of secrecy is central to Western literature . You may say the whole idea of character in fiction is defined by people holding specific information which fo various reasons - sometimes perverse , sometimes noble - they are determined not to disclose .
HANNA: You never tell me what you 've been studying .
MICHAEL: Studying ?
HANNA: At school . Do you learn languages ?
MICHAEL: Yes .
HANNA: What languages ?
MICHAEL: Latin .
HANNA: Say something in Latin .
MICHAEL: Oh
HANNA: It 's wonderful .
MICHAEL: Do you want some Greek ?
HANNA: It 's beautiful .
MICHAEL: How can you tell ? How do you know when you 've no idea what it means ?
HANNA: What about in German ?
MICHAEL: In German ?
HANNA: Do you have anything ?
MICHAEL: Well , I 'm writing an essay . It 's about a play . By a writer called Gotthold Ephraim Lessing . Perhaps you 've heard of him ?
HANNA: Have you got it ?
MICHAEL: Here . You can read it .
HANNA: I 'd rather listen to you .
MICHAEL: All right . I 'm not very good .
HANNA: You 're good at it , are n't you ?
MICHAEL: Good at what ?
HANNA: Reading .
MICHAEL: Because I did n't think I was good at anything .
HANNA: Poor little baby . Got up at fou thirty - and on your holidays too .
MICHAEL: What is this ? I was on your tram ! You totally ignored me ! What do you think I was doing ? Why the hell do you think I was there ?
HANNA: I have n't the slightest idea . And what you do is your business not mine .
MICHAEL: I did n't mean to upset you .
HANNA: You do n't have the power to upset me . You do n't matter enough to upset me .
MICHAEL: I do n't know what to say . I 've never been with a woman . We 've been together four weeks and I ca n't live without you . I ca n't . Even the thought of it kills me .
HANNA: Kid , you thought we could make love in a tram ?
MICHAEL: Is it true what you said ? That I do n't matter to you ?
HANNA: Do you have a book ?
MICHAEL: Oh . Well I do . I took something with me this morning .
HANNA: What is it ?
MICHAEL: It 's another play .
HANNA: We 're changing the order we do things . Read to me first , kid . Then we make love .
MICHAEL: Intrigue and Love , a play by Friedrich Schiller
HANNA: What 's an odyssey ?
MICHAEL: It 's a journey . He sets out on a journey .
HANNA: Come here .
MICHAEL: I poked into the place aways and encountered a little open patch as ig as a bedroom , all hung around with vines and found a man lying there asleep , and by Jinks it was my old Jim
HANNA: This is disgusting . Where did you get this ?
MICHAEL: I borrowed it from someone at school .
HANNA: You should be ashamed . Go on .
MICHAEL: ` Blistering Barnacles and a thundering typhoon . It is water . ' ` But what on earth did you expect it to be ? '
HANNA: Whisky .
MICHAEL: Whisky ! By thunder , whisky . ` Whisky ? Come now captain , you ca n't be serious . '
HANNA: All right , kid , that 's enough fo today .
MICHAEL: I was wondering , do you think you could get some time off ? Maybe we could go for a trip .
HANNA: What sort of trip ?
MICHAEL: I 'd love to go bicycling . Just fo two days .
HANNA: I think you like planning , do n't you ?
MICHAEL'S VOICE: `` I 'm not frightened . I 'm not frightened of anything . Why should I be ? I welcome obstacles , because they 'll be like mountains I can fly over to be in your arms . The more I suffer , the more I 'll love
WAITRESS: So what would you like to have ?
MICHAEL: What are you having ?
HANNA: You order . I 'll have what you have .
BOYS: There 's sausages , sausages o sausages . Give it to me , come on , give it here . Let me have a look . You always have the same thing .
WAITRESS: I hope your mother was happy .
MICHAEL: Thank you . She enjoyed her meal very much .
HANNA: It 's OK , kid . I do n't want to know .
MICHAEL: I 'm writing a poem . About you .
HANNA: Can I hear it ?
MICHAEL: It 's not ready . I 'll read it to you one day .
GERHARD: You all right , Michael ?
MICHAEL: I 'm fine .
GERHARD: You 'd better hurry . You know what she 's like .
SOPHIE: I 'm just going to pretend I 've been here for years , I 'm not going to ehave in any special way .
GIRL: You just wait . You wait and see .
TEACHER: Good morning , ladies . Gentlemen , please welcome your new fellow- students , treat them with courtesy , please .
SOPHIE: Hello . My name 's Sophie .
MICHAEL: I 'm Michael .
TEACHER: Everyone believes that Homer 's subject is homecoming . In fact , The Odyssey is a book about a journey . Home is a place you dream of , it 's not a place you ever attain .
HOLGER: Michael the water 's fantastic .
MICHAEL: It 's wonderful , is n't it ?
HOLGER: Wonderful . It 's going to be a great summer .
SOPHIE: Why are they so loud ?
HOLGER: You should see their stores . They have everything .
MICHAEL: Oh sure . Everything mankind could ever dream of .
SOPHIE: You do n't like Americans ?
MICHAEL: Just it 's more fun without them .
SOPHIE: Why do you leave early ?
HOLGER: He always leaves early .
MICHAEL: I 'm sorry I 'm late . I was held up at school .
SUPERVISER: Schmitz , one moment . We 've got good news for you . Your work is good , we 're going to promote you . To work with me in the office . It 's more money . Congratulations .
HOLGER: Get a move on , we 're leaving early today .
MICHAEL: Why ? What for ?
HOLGER: We 're going back to Sophie 's . It 's your birthday . We 're giving you a party .
SOPHIE: Come on , it 's a surprise . We thought you 'd like it . We 've been planning it for weeks .
MICHAEL: I 'm sorry . Really . I promised someone I 'd do something else .
HANNA: Oh kid , kid . Stop .
MICHAEL: What 's wrong ?
HANNA: Nothing 's wrong . It 's nothing .
MICHAEL: You never ask , you never bother to ask how I am .
HANNA: You never say .
MICHAEL: It just happens to be my birthday . It 's my birthday , that 's all . In fact , you 've never even asked when it is .
HANNA: Look if you want a fight , kid
MICHAEL: No , I do n't want a fight . What 's wrong with you ?
HANNA: What business is it of yours ?
MICHAEL: It 's always on your terms . Everything . We do what you want . It 's always what you want . My friends were giving me a party !
HANNA: Well then why are you here ? Go back to your party . Is n't that what you want ?
MICHAEL: And it 's always me that has to apologize .
HANNA: You do n't have to apologize . No-one has to apologize . No-one can make you .
SOPHIE: Michael . You all right ?
EMILY: It 's him .
CARLA: Where were you last night ? What happened ?
MICHAEL: I stayed at a friend 's .
PETER: Carla .
ASSISTANT: Mr Berg . It is eight o'clock . You daughter .
MICHAEL: Thank you .
JULIA: I was early .
MICHAEL: Julia .
JULIA: I do n't know . I 'm happy back in Berlin , I suppose .
MICHAEL: You 've seen your mother ?
JULIA: I wanted to get away . There was nothing more to it . It was Paris , ut it could have been anywhere .
MICHAEL: Away from your parents ?
JULIA: I knew you were distant . I 'd always assumed it was my fault .
MICHAEL: Julia . How wrong can you be ?
JULIA: I was nervous too . It 's silly is n't it ?
MICHAEL: It is silly .
JULIA: Thank you for dinner .
MICHAEL: I 'll see you very soon .
JULIA: Good night , Dad .
MICHAEL: Julia , wait . I want to ask you a favour .
JULIA: What favour ?
MICHAEL: I want to take you on a trip . I want to show you something .
JULIA: When ?
MICHAEL: Tomorrow , maybe . Can I pick you up in the car ?
LECTURER: Those of you for the special seminar group on The Legal System in the Third Reich , please stay on in this room . Professor Rohl will e here in a moment .
ROHL: Well , we seem to be quite a small group . A small group and a select one . Clearly , this is going to be a unique seminar . Let me start by thanking those of you who 've chosen to take part . Good for you . A eading list , gentlemen .
MARTHE: And ladies .
MICHAEL: Yes . Come in .
MARTHE: You take work seriously .
MICHAEL: Oh I do n't know .
MARTHE: You 're rather a serious boy .
MICHAEL: It 's how I was brought up . What about you ? Are you serious ?
MARTHE: You 're sure you want to work tonight ?
MICHAEL: Well I do . But I wo n't work every night .
MARTHE: See you tomorrow .
MICHAEL: Why all the police ?
ROHL: They 're worried about demonstrators .
MICHAEL: For or against ?
ROHL: Both .
CLERK: All photographers are now asked to leave .
JUDGE: The defendants , please .
JUDGE: I am going to take these cases one y one .
MICHAEL: Do you want a pen ?
MARTHE: I 've got a pen .
JUDGE: Hanna Schmitz .
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: Can you speak louder please ?
HANNA: My name is Hanna Schmitz .
JUDGE: Thank you . You were born on Octobe 21st , 1922 ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: At Hermannstadt . And you 're now 43 years old ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: You joined the SS in 1943 ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: What was your reason ? What was you eason for joining ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: You 'd recently been offered a promotion . Why did you prefer to join the SS ?
HANNA: I heard there were jobs .
JUDGE: Go on .
HANNA: I was working at Siemens when I heard the SS was recruiting .
JUDGE: Did you know the kind of work you 'd e expected to do ?
HANNA: They were looking for guards . I applied for a job .
JUDGE: And you worked first at Auschwitz ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: Until 1944 . Then you were moved to a smaller camp near Cracow ?
HANNA: Yes .
ROHL: Are you OK ?
MICHAEL: I 'm fine .
JUDGE: You then helped move the prisoners west in the winter of 1944 in the so-called death marches ?
ROHL: So what did you think ?
MICHAEL: I do n't know . It was n't quite what I expecting .
ROHL: Was n't it ? In what way ? What were you expecting ?
DIETER: I thought it was exciting .
ROHL: Exciting ?
DIETER: Yes .
ROHL: Why ? Why did you think it exciting ?
DIETER: Because it 's justice .
ROHL: I need to correct an impression . Dieter said yesterday this was about justice . But is it ?
DIETER: I 'd have thought it was obvious .
ROHL: Say .
DIETER: Cowardice . It 's cowardice , is n't it ? It 's bad conscience . It 's the ig cover-up .
ROHL: Go on .
DIETER: After the war . The German people did n't want to look at what they 'd done .
ROHL: Is that right ?
DIETER: Because they had too much to hide . All our parents are liars . All ight , mine are . So it 's left to us , is n't it ?
ROHL: How so ?
DIETER: Because we 're not implicated .
ROHL: Are n't you ? Good . So that 's all ight then .
MARTHE: No , but seriously , Dieter 's right . My parents , I ca n't even talk to them . I do n't love them . How could I ? How could anyone love them ? Because they 've told themselves so many lies , they ca n't remember the truth , let alone admit it . Is n't that why we signed up for this seminar ?
ROHL: I do n't know . You tell me .
MARTHE: Speaking for myself .
ROHL: Michael ?
MICHAEL: I 'm not sure any more .
ROHL: What did your father do , Dieter ?
DIETER: If you want to know , he was in the Waffen SS .
ROHL: That 's exactly my point . That 's why it 's better not to pretend this is about justice . Forgive me , nor is it about getting into an emotional state . It has no purpose if it 's just the young giving their parents a bad time .
MARTHE: So what is it about ? What do you think ?
ROHL: Societies think they operate by something called morality . But they do n't . They operate by something called law . You 're not guilty of anything merely by working at Auschwitz . 8,000 people worked at Auschwitz . Precisely 19 have been convicted , and only 6 for murder . To prove murder you have to prove intent . That 's the law . Remember , the question is never ` Was it wrong ? ' but ` Was it legal ? ' And not y our laws , no , by the laws at the time .
DIETER: But is n't that
ROHL: What ?
DIETER: Narrow ?
ROHL: Yes . The law is narrow .
JUDGE: Miss Schmitz , you 're familiar with this book
HANNA: Yes
JUDGE: Parts of it have already been read out in court .
HANNA: Yes I know . I know Ilana Mather .
JUDGE: She was in the camp , was n't she , when she was a child ? She was with her mother .
HANNA: Yes , it 's right .
JUDGE: And so far , each of your fellow defendants has specifically denied eing part of that process . Now I 'm going to ask you . Were you part of it ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: So you helped make the selection ?
HANNA: Yes .
JUDGE: You admit that ? Then tell me , how did that selection happen ?
HANNA: There were six guards , so we decided we 'd choose ten people each . That 's how we did it - every month . We 'd all choose ten .
JUDGE: Are you saying your fellow defendants took part in the process ?
HANNA: We all did .
JUDGE: Even though they 've denied it ? But you admit it . You 're saying you took part in the process .
HANNA: Yes but there were new arrivals , new women were arriving all the time , so of course we had to move some of the old ones on .
JUDGE: I 'm not sure you understand
HANNA: We could n't keep everyone . There was n't room .
JUDGE: No , but what I 'm saying let me ephrase to make room , you were picking women out and saying ` You you and you have to be sent back to e killed . '
HANNA: Well , what would you have done ?
CLERK: Ms. Mather , they 're ready for you now .
PROSECUTOR: In your book you describe the process of selection
ILANA: Yes . You were made to work and then , when you were no longer any use to them , then they sent you ack to Auschwitz to be killed .
PROSECUTOR: Are there people here today who made that selection ?
ILANA: Yes .
PROSECUTOR: I need you to identify them . Can you please point them out ?
ILANA: Her . And her . And her . And her . And her . And her .
JUDGE: In what way differently ?
ILANA: She had favourites . Girls , mostly young . We all remarked on it , she gave them food and places to sleep . In the evening , she asked them to join her . We all thought - well , you can imagine what we thought .
JUDGE: I want to move on now to the march . As I understand it , you and you daughter were marched for many months .
ROSE: Yes . It was the winter of 1944 . Ou camp was closed down , we were told we had to move on . But the plan kept changing every day . Women were dying all around us in the snow . Half of us died on the march . My daughter says in the book , less a death march , more a death gallop .
JUDGE: Please tell us about the night in the church .
ROSE: That night we actually thought we were lucky because we had a roof over our heads . We 'd arrived in a village , as always , the guards took the best quarters , they took the priest 's house . But they let us sleep in a church . There was a ombing raid . In the middle of the night . At first we could only hea the fire , it was in the steeple . Then we could see burning beams , and they began to crash to the floor . Everyone rushed , rushed to the doors . But the doors had been locked on the outside .
JUDGE: The church burned down ? Nobody came to open the doors ? Is that right ?
ROSE: Nobody .
JUDGE: Even though you were all burning to death ?
ROSE: Everyone was killed .
JUDGE: How did you survive ?
ROSE: I needed to get away from the othe women . Because they were panicking , they were screaming . I could n't stand it . I could n't stand thei screaming . I was more frightened of the other women than I was of the fire . So I too my daughter and led her to the upper floor . I ca n't defend what I did . It 's impossible to defend . I took Ilana in my arms and I led her towards the fire . There was a small gallery at the side of the church on the uppe level . It saved our lives . The gallery did n't burn .
JUDGE: Thank you . I want to thank you fo coming to this country today to testify .
DIETER: I do n't know . I do n't know what we 're doing any more .
ROHL: Do n't you ?
DIETER: You keep telling us to think like lawyers , but there 's something disgusting about this .
ROHL: How so ?
DIETER: This did n't happen to the Germans . It happened to the Jews .
MICHAEL: We 're trying to understand .
DIETER: Six women locked three hundred Jews in a church , and let them burn . What is there to understand ? Tell me , I 'm asking what is there to understand ?
ROHL: Yes ? Diversion from what ?
DIETER: You choose six women , you put them on trial , you say ` They were the evil ones , they were the guilty ones ' . Brilliant !
DIETER: People go on about how much did everyone know ? ` Who knew ? ' ` What did they know ? ' That is n't the question . The question is ` How could you let it happen ? ' And - etter - ` Why did n't you kill yourself when you found out ? '
MICHAEL: Which woman ?
DIETER: The woman you 're always staring at . I 'm sorry but you are .
MICHAEL: I do n't know which woman you mean .
DIETER: You know what I 'd do ? Put the gun in my hand , I 'd shoot her myself .
JUDGE: Why did you not unlock the doors ?
HANNA: I do n't know what you 're asking .
JUDGE: The first thing I 'm asking is , why did n't you unlock the doors ?
HANNA: Obviously . For the obvious reason . We could n't .
JUDGE: Why ? Why could n't you ?
HANNA: We were guards . Our job was to guard the prisoners . We could n't just let them escape .
JUDGE: I see . And if they escaped , then you 'd be blamed , you 'd be charged , you might even be executed ?
HANNA: No .
JUDGE: Well then ?
HANNA: If we opened the doors , then there would have been chaos . How could we have restored order ?
JUDGE: So you did know what was happening ? You did know ? You made a choice . You let them die rather than risk letting them escape .
HANNA: It is n't true . I was just one of the guards .
JUDGE: Did you write the report ?
HANNA: No . No . We all discussed what to say . We all wrote it together .
BECKHART: She wrote it ! She wrote the report . She was in charge .
JUDGE: Is that true ?
HANNA: No . And I did n't write the report . Does it matter who did ?
JUDGE: I need to see a sample of you handwriting .
HANNA: My handwriting ?
JUDGE: Yes . I need to establish who wrote the report .
HANNA'S COUNSEL: I 'm sorry , but I really do n't see how that 's appropriate . Nearly twenty years have gone by .
JUDGE: Somebody take her this piece of paper .
HANNA'S COUNSEL: Are you really going to compare handwriting of twenty years ago , with handwriting of today ?
JUDGE: Give her the paper . Counsel , approach the bench .
HANNA: There 's no need . I wrote the eport .
ROHL: You 've been skipping seminars .
MICHAEL: I have a piece of information . Concerning one of the defendants . Something they 're not admitting .
ROHL: What information ?
MICHAEL: It happens this information is favourable to the defendant . It can help her case . It may even affect the outcome , certainly the sentencing .
ROHL: So ?
MICHAEL: There 's a problem . The defendant herself is determined to keep this information secret .
ROHL: A moment , please . Please .
MICHAEL: Because she 's ashamed .
ROHL: Ashamed ? Ashamed of what ?
MICHAEL: Of course not .
ROHL: Why of course not ?
MICHAEL: I ca n't . I ca n't do that . I ca n't talk to her .
ROHL: What we feel is n't important . It 's utterly unimportant . The only question is what we do .
GUARD: You have a visitor . Michael Berg .
MARTHE: You 've taken your time .
MICHAEL: I 'm sorry . I need to sleep by myself .
JUDGE: The court finds guilty the defendants Rita Beckhart , Karolina Steinhof , Regina Kreutz , Angela Zieber , Andrea Luhmann jointly aiding and abetting murder in three hundred cases . The court finds the defendant Hanna Schmitz guilty of murder in three hundred cases .
JULIA: Where are we going ?
MICHAEL: I said I 'll tell you when we get there . You told me you liked surprises .
JULIA: I like surprises .
MICHAEL: She 's grown , has n't she ?
CARLA: I do n't know . It 's so long since I saw her , Michael , how can I tell ?
MICHAEL: My fault . We should n't have come unannounced .
JULIA: Daddy , why 's she angry ?
MICHAEL: I 'm afraid I 've have some bad news . Julia knows .
JULIA: Daddy 's going to live in his own house .
CARLA: You did n't come for your father 's funeral , but you come for this ?
MICHAEL: You know , it 's not easy for me to visit this town .
CARLA: Were you really so unhappy ?
MICHAEL: That 's not what I 'm saying . It 's not what I meant .
CARLA: Well then ?
MICHAEL: You must n't worry about Gertrud . I 'm going to look after her . And anyway , let 's face it , she 's already a state prosecutor , she earns far more than I do .
CARLA: Michael , I 'm not worried about Gertrud . I 'm worried about you .
JULIA: Hello Mummy .
GERTRUD: Hello beautiful .
MICHAEL: I do n't mind at all . I 've a lot to do , in fact .
GERTRUD: You went to the West ? My God , what a trip .
JULIA: We went to say hello to granny .
GERTRUD: Oh . Daddy took you to see Carla , did he ?
JULIA: She was strange .
GERTRUD: Come on , let 's see what 's on TV .
MICHAEL: You could say .
GERTRUD: She always was . Why on earth did you decide to do that ?
MICHAEL: I do n't know . Impulse .
GERTRUD: With your mother ? And did you succeed ?
MICHAEL: Are you all right ?
GERTRUD: Michael you 're meant to be an intelligent man . Do n't you know , it 's very hard to receive contact if you 're not willing to give it ?
JULIA: Goodbye , Daddy .
MICHAEL: `` Sing to me of the Man , Muse , the man of twists and turns Driven time and again off course , once he had plundered The hallowed heights of Troy
MICHAEL'S VOICE: The Odyssey by Homer .
MICHAEL: The Odyssey by Homer . `` Sing to me of the Man , Muse , the man of twists and turns Driven time and again off course , once he had plundered The hallowed heights of Troy Many cities of men he saw and learned their minds , Many pains he suffered , heartsick at the open sea , Fighting to save his life and bring his comrades home
MICHAEL'S VOICE: Zeus from the very start , the thunder king Has hated the race of Atreus with a vengeance -
MICHAEL: The Lady with the Little Dog , by Anton Chekhov . `` The talk was that a new face had appeared on the promenade , a lady with a little dog ''
HANNA: I want to take out a book .
LIBRARIAN: Which book ?
HANNA: Do you have The Lady with the Little Dog ?
LIBRARIAN: What 's your name ?
HANNA: Hanna Schmitz .
MICHAEL'S VOICE: The Lady with the Little Dog , a story by Anton Chekhov . The talk was
MICHAEL: I have it here .
MS BRENNER: Hanna has been in prison for ove twenty years . She has no family . She has no friends . You 're her only contact . And I 'm told you do n't visit her .
MICHAEL: No . I do n't .
MS BRENNER: When she gets out , she 's going to need a job . She 's going to need somewhere to live . You ca n't imagine how frightening the modern world will seem to her .
MICHAEL: Yes . I 'm still here .
MS BRENNER: I have no-one else to ask . If you do n't take responsibility for her , then Hanna has no future at all .
MICHAEL: It 's kind of you . Thank you fo letting me know .
MS BRENNER: You 're Michael Berg ?
MICHAEL: Yes .
MS BRENNER: Louisa Brenner . We were expecting you earlier .
HANNA: You 've grown up , kid .
MICHAEL: I 've got a friend who 's a tailor , he makes my suits . He 'll give you a job . And I 've found you somewhere to live . It 's a nice place . Quite small but nice . I think you 'll like it .
HANNA: Thank you .
MICHAEL: There are various social programmes , cultural stuff I can sign you up for . And there 's a public library very close .
HANNA: I prefer being read to .
MICHAEL: I did . Yes I did . We have a daughter . I 'm not seeing as much of her as I would like . I 'd like to see a great deal more of her .
HANNA: You mean , with you ?
MICHAEL: No . No , I did n't mean with me .
HANNA: Before the trial I never thought about the past . I never had to .
MICHAEL: And now ? What do you feel now ?
HANNA: It does n't matter what I think . It does n't matter what I feel . The dead are still dead .
MICHAEL: I was n't sure what you 'd learnt .
HANNA: I have learnt , kid . I 've learnt to ead .
MICHAEL: I 'll pick you up next week , OK ?
HANNA: That sounds a good plan .
MICHAEL: Good . Quietly , or shall we make a ig fuss ?
HANNA: Quietly .
MICHAEL: OK . Quietly .
HANNA: Take care , kid .
MICHAEL: You too .
MS BRENNER: She left me a message , a sort of will . I 'll read out the bit that concerns you .
MICHAEL: Ms Mather ?
ILANA: Yes . You 're Michael Berg . I was expecting you .
MICHAEL: I was already here . I was at a conference in Boston .
ILANA: You 're a lawyer ?
MICHAEL: Yes .
ILANA: I was intrigued by your letter but I ca n't say I wholly understood it . You attended the trial ?
MICHAEL: Yes . Almost twenty years ago . I was a law student . I remember you , I emember your mother very clearly .
ILANA: My mother died in Israel - a good many years ago .
MICHAEL: I 'm sorry .
ILANA: Go on , please .
MICHAEL: Perhaps you heard . Hanna Schmitz ecently died . She killed herself .
ILANA: She was a friend of yours ?
MICHAEL: A kind of friend . It 's as simple as this . Hanna was illiterate for the greater part of her life .
ILANA: Is that an explanation of he ehaviour ?
MICHAEL: No .
ILANA: Or an excuse ?
MICHAEL: No . No . She taught herself to read when she was in prison . I sent he tapes . She 'd always liked being ead to .
ILANA: Why do n't you start by being honest with me ? At least start that way . What was the nature of you friendship ?
MICHAEL: When I was young I had an affai with Hanna .
ILANA: I 'm not sure I can help you , Mr. Berg . Or rather , even if I could I 'm not willing to .
MICHAEL: I was almost sixteen when I took up with her . The affair only lasted a summer . But .
ILANA: But what ?
MICHAEL: She 'd done much worse to othe people . I 've never told anyone .
ILANA: People ask all the time what I learned in the camps . But the camps were n't therapy . What do you think these places were ? Universities ? We did n't go there to learn . One ecomes very clear about these things .
MICHAEL: What she wantedwhat she wanted was to leave you her money . I have with me .
ILANA: To do what ?
MICHAEL: As you think fit .
ILANA: When I was a little girl , I had a tea-tin for my treasures . Not quite like this . It had Cyrillic lettering . I took it with me to the camp , but it got stolen .
MICHAEL: What was in it ?
ILANA: Oh . Sentimental things . A piece of hair from our dog . Some tickets to operas my father had taken me to . It was n't stolen for its contents . It was the tin itself which was valuable , what you could do with it .
MICHAEL: I was thinking maybe an organization to encourage literacy .
ILANA: Good .
MICHAEL: Do you know if there 's a Jewish organization ?
ILANA: I 'll be surprised if there is n't . There 's a Jewish organisation fo everything . Not that illiteracy is a very Jewish problem .
MICHAEL: Shall I do it in Hanna 's name ?
ILANA: As you think fit .
JULIA: Where are we going ?
MICHAEL: I thought you liked surprises .
JULIA: I do . I do like surprises .
MICHAEL: That 's what I wanted to tell you . That 's why we 're here .
JULIA: So tell me .
MICHAEL: I was 15 , I was coming home from school , I was ill
REAL GENIUS: < LINK rel= '' stylesheet '' type= '' text/css ''
ANNOUNCER: The time 7 15 A.M. , WOR , New York . The temperature , outside , 84 Friends is your life worth one dollar ?
GUNNISON: Indo-China Jeff predicted it would go sky-high .
BRYCE: From the looks of Davidson 's cable , it might even go higher than that . And we have n't even got a camera over there .
GUNNISON: This could go off in a month o an hour .
BRYCE: I 'll pull somebody out of Japan .
GUNNISON: Bryce , the only man for this job is sitting right here in town . Get me L. B. Jefferies .
BRYCE: Jefferies ?
GUNNISON: Name me a better photographer .
BRYCE: But his leg !
GUNNISON: Do n't worry it comes off today . Bryce gives Gunnison a startled look .
JEFF: Jefferies .
GUNNISON: Congratulations , Jeff .
JEFF: For what ?
GUNNISON: For getting rid of that cast .
JEFF: Who said I was getting rid of it ?
GUNNISON: This is Wednesday .
JEFF: Gunnison how did you get to be such a big editor with such a small memory ?
GUNNISON: Wrong day ?
JEFF: Wrong week . Next Wednesday I emerge from this plaster cocoon .
GUNNISON: That 's too bad , Jeff . Well , I guess I ca n't be lucky every day . Forget I called .
JEFF: Yeah . I sure feel sorry for you , Gunnison . Must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week .
GUNNISON: That one week is going to cost me my est photographer and you a big assignment .
JEFF: Where ? We hear Gunnison 's reply .
GUNNISON: There 's no point in even talking about it .
JEFF: Where ?
GUNNISON: Indo-China . Got a code tip from the ureau chief this morning . The place is about to go up in smoke .
JEFF: Did n't I tell you ! Did n't I tell you it was the next place to watch ?
GUNNISON: You did .
JEFF: Okay . When do I leave ? Half-hour ? An hour ?
GUNNISON: With that cast on you do n't .
JEFF: Stop sounding stuffy . I 'll take pictures from a jeep . From a wate uffalo if necessary .
GUNNISON: You 're too valuable to the magazine for us to play around with . I 'll send Morgan or Lambert .
JEFF: Swell . I get myself half-killed fo you and you reward me by stealing my assignments .
GUNNISON: I did n't ask you to stand in the middle of that automobile race track .
JEFF: You asked for something dramatically different ! You got it !
GUNNISON: So did you . Goodbye , Jeff .
JEFF: You 've got to get me out of here ! Six weeks sitting in a two-room apartment with nothing to do but look out the window at the neighbors !
GUNNISON: Read some good books .
JEFF: I 've been taking pictures so long I do n't know how to read anymore .
GUNNISON: I 'll send you some comic books .
JEFF: Listen if you do n't pull me out of this swamp of boredom I 'll do something drastic .
GUNNISON: Like what ?
JEFF: I 'll I 'll get married . Then I 'll never be able to go anywhere .
GUNNISON: It 's about time you got married efore you turn into a lonesome and itter old man .
JEFF: Can you see me rushing home to a hot apartment every night to listen to the automatic laundry , the electric dishwasher , the garbage disposal and a nagging wife .
GUNNISON: Jeff wives do n't nag anymore they discuss .
JEFF: Yeah ? Maybe in the high rent districts they discuss but in my neighborhood , they still nag .
GUNNISON: Well you know best . Call you later , Jeff .
JEFF: Next time , have some good news .
STELLA: The New York State sentence for a peeping Tom is six months in the workhouse ! He does n't turn .
JEFF: Hello Stella .
STELLA: And there are n't any windows in the workhouse .
JEFF: Readers ' Digest , April , 1939 .
STELLA: Well , I only quote from the best .
JEFF: Now look , Stella She shoves the thermometer into his mouth .
STELLA: See it you can break a hundred .
JEFF: How ?
STELLA: Simple . I was nursing a director of General Motors . Kidney ailment they said . Nerves , I said . Then I asked myself what 's General Motors got to be nervous about ? Overproduction . Collapse , I answered . When General Motors has to go to the athroom ten times a day the whole country 's ready to let go .
JEFF: Stella in economics , a kidney ailment has no relationship to the stock market . Absolutely none .
STELLA: It crashed , did n't it ?
JEFF: Right now I 'd even welcome trouble .
STELLA: You 've got a hormone deficiency .
JEFF: How can you tell that from a thermometer !
STELLA: Those sultry sun-worshipers you watch have n't raised your temperature one degree in four weeks .
JEFF: I think you 're right . There is going to be some trouble around here .
STELLA: I knew it !
JEFF: Do n't you ever heat that stuff up .
STELLA: Gives your circulation something to fight . What kind of trouble ?
JEFF: Lisa Fremont .
STELLA: You must be kidding . A beautiful young woman , and you a reasonably healthy specimen of manhood .
JEFF: She expects me to marry her .
STELLA: That 's normal .
JEFF: I do n't want to .
STELLA: That 's abnormal .
JEFF: I 'm not ready for marriage .
STELLA: Nonsense . A man is always ready fo marriage with the right girl . And Lisa Fremont is the right girl fo any man with half a brain , who can get one eye open .
JEFF: She 's all right .
STELLA: Behind every ridiculous statement is always hidden the true cause . What is it ? You have a fight ?
JEFF: No .
STELLA: Her father loading up the shotgun ?
JEFF: Stella !
STELLA: It 's happened before , you know ! Some of the world 's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun ' you might say .
JEFF: She 's just not the girl for me .
STELLA: She 's only perfect .
JEFF: Too perfect . Too beautiful , too talented , too sophisticated , too everything but what I want .
STELLA: Is what you want something you can discuss ? Jeff gives an exasperated look .
JEFF: It 's very simple . She belongs in that rarefied atmosphere of Park Avenue , expensive restaurants , and literary cocktail parties .
STELLA: People with sense can belong whereve they 're put .
JEFF: Can you see her tramping around the world with a camera bum who neve has more than a week 's salary in the ank ? If only she was ordinary .
STELLA: You 're never going to marry ?
JEFF: Probably . But when I do , it 'll be to someone who thinks of life as more than a new dress , a lobster dinner , and the latest scandal . I need a woman who 'll go anywhere , do anything , and love it .
STELLA: I can just hear you now . `` Get out of here you perfect , wonderful woman ! You 're too good for me ! ''
JEFF: That 's the hard part .
STELLA: Look , Mr. Jefferies . I 'm not educated . I 'm not even sophisticated . But I can tell you this when a man and a woman see each other , and like each other they should come together wham like two taxies on Broadway . Not sit around studying each other like specimens in at ottle .
JEFF: There 's an intelligent way to approach marriage .
STELLA: Intelligence ! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble . Modern marriage ! Jeff swings his chair back to look at her .
JEFF: We 've progressed emotionally in
STELLA: Baloney ! Once it was see somebody , get excited , get married Now , it 's read books , fence with fou syllable words , psychoanalyze each other until you ca n't tell a petting party from a civil service exam
JEFF: People have different emotional levels that
STELLA: Ask for trouble and you get it . Why there 's a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years . Then he efused to marry her . Why ? Because she only scored sixty-one on a Look Magazine marriage quiz ! Jeff ca n't help smiling .
JEFF: That 's fine , Stella . Now would you make me a sandwich ? She relaxes .
STELLA: Okay but I 'm going to spread some common sense on the bread . Lisa Fremont 's loaded to her fingertips with love for you . I 'll give you two words of advice . Marry her .
JEFF: She pay you much ?
STELLA: Window shopper . He freezes , turns slowly to look up at her .
LISA: How 's your leg ?
JEFF: Mmmm hurts a little .
LISA: And your stomach ?
JEFF: Empty as a football .
LISA: And you love life ?
JEFF: Not too active .
LISA: Anything else bothering you ?
JEFF: Uh-huh .
LISA: Reading from top to bottom Lisa
JEFF: The Lisa Fremont who never wears the same dress twice ?
LISA: Only because it 's expected of her .
JEFF: Depends on the quote . Let 's see there 's the plane tickets over , import duties , hidden taxes , profit markups
LISA: A steal at eleven hundred dollars .
JEFF: That dress should be listed on the stock exchange .
LISA: We sell a dozen a day in this price ange .
JEFF: Who buys them ? Tax collectors ?
LISA: Even if I had to pay , it would be worth it just for the occasion .
JEFF: Something big going on somewhere ?
LISA: Going on right here . It 's a big night .
JEFF: It 's just a run-of-the-mill Monday . The calendar 's loaded with them .
LISA: It 's opening night of the last depressing week of L. B. Jefferies in a cast .
JEFF: Has n't been any big demand fo tickets .
LISA: That 's because I bought out the house . This cigarette box has seen bette days .
JEFF: Picked it up in Shanghai which has also seen better days .
LISA: It 's cracked and you never use it . And it 's too ornate . I 'm sending up a plain , flat silver one with just your initials engraved .
JEFF: Now that 's no way to spend your hard- earned money !
LISA: I wanted to , Jeff . Oh !
JEFF: You have , perhaps , an ambulance outside ?
LISA: Better than that . The `` 21 . ''
CARL: Good evening , Mr Jefferies .
JEFF: Hello . Carl goes into the kitchen .
LISA: Just put everything right in the oven Carl . On `` low . ''
CARL: Yes ma'am .
LISA: Let 's open the wine now . It 's a Montrachet .
JEFF: A big glassful .
LISA: Big enough ?
JEFF: Fine . Corkscrew 's on the right .
LISA: I could n't think of anything more oring and tiresome than what you 've een through . And the last week must e the hardest .
JEFF: Yeah I want to get this thing off and get moving .
LISA: Well , I 'm going to make this a week you 'll never forget .
CARL: Let me , madam .
LISA: This will take care of the taxi as well .
CARL: Thank you , Miss Fremont . He picks up the warning oven .
JEFF: Thank you .
LISA: What a day I 've had !
JEFF: Tired ?
LISA: Not a bit . I was all morning in a sales meeting . Then over to the Waldorf for a quick drink with Madame Dufresne just over from Paris . With some spy reports . Back to the `` 21 '' for lunch with the Harper 's Bazaar people that 's when I ordered dinner . Then two Fall showings twenty blocks apart . Then I had to have a cocktail with Leland and Slim Hayward we 're trying to get his next show . Then I had to dash back and change .
JEFF: Tell me what was Slim Hayward wearing ?
LISA: She looked very cool . She had on a mint green
JEFF: That 's good news .
LISA: Someday you might want to open up your own studio here .
JEFF: How could I run it from say Pakistan ?
LISA: Jeff is n't it time you came home ? You could pick your assignment .
JEFF: I wish there was one I wanted .
LISA: Make the one you want .
JEFF: You mean leave the magazine ?
LISA: Yes .
JEFF: For what ?
LISA: For yourself and me . I could get you a dozen assignments tomorrow fashion , portraits Jeff interrupts her with soft laughter .
JEFF: That 's what I 'm afraid of . Could you see me driving down to the fashion salon in a jeep wearing combat boots and a three day beard ?
LISA: I could see you looking handsome and successful in a dark blue flannel suit .
JEFF: Let 's not talk any more nonsense , huh ? She stands up . THE CAMERA PULLS BACK .
LISA: I 'd better start setting up fo dinner . She moves away behind him , into the kitchen .
JEFF: Miss Lonely Hearts . At least that 's something you 'll never have to worry about .
LISA: Oh ? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street ?
JEFF: Not exactly but we have a little apartment here that 's probably about as popular as yours . You , of course , remember Miss Torso .
LISA: She 's not in love with him or any of them .
JEFF: How can you tell that from here ?
LISA: You said it resembled my apartment , did n't you ?
JEFF: Oh some songwriter . In the studio apartment . Lives alone . Probably had an unhappy marriage .
LISA: I think it 's enchanting .
JEFF: No wonder he 's having so much trouble with it .
LISA: Well , at least you ca n't say the dinner is n't right .
JEFF: Lisa , it 's perfect As always .
LISA: There ca n't be that much difference etween people and the way they live ! We all eat , talk , drink , laugh , sleep , wear clothes Jeff raises both his hands .
JEFF: Well now , look
LISA: If you 're saying all this just because you do n't want to tell me the truth , ecause you 're hiding something from me , then maybe I can understand
JEFF: There 's nothing I 'm hiding . It 's just that
LISA: It does n't make sense to me . What 's so different about it here from ove there , or any place you go , that one person could n't live in both places just as easily ?
JEFF: Some people can . Now if you 'll let me explain
LISA: What is it but traveling from one place to another , taking pictures ? It 's just like being a tourist on an endless vacation .
JEFF: All right . That 's your opinion . You 're entitled to it , but
LISA: It 's ridiculous for you to say that it can only be done by a special , private little group of anointed people .
JEFF: I made a simple , but true statement and I 'll back it up , if you 'll just shut up for a minute !
LISA: If your opinion is as rude as you manner , I 'm not sure I want to hea it .
JEFF: Lisa , simmer down will you ?
LISA: You ca n't fit in here I ca n't fit in there . According to you , people should be born , live an die on the same
JEFF: Lisa ! Shut up !
LISA: Of course not .
JEFF: You might have to , if you went with me . Ever try to keep warm in a C-54 , at fifteen thousand feet , at twenty elow zero ?
LISA: Oh , I do that all the time . Wheneve I have a few minutes after lunch .
JEFF: Ever get shot at , run over , sandbagged at night because people got unfavorable publicity from you camera ?
LISA: Three .
JEFF: Well , they 'd be very stylish in Finland just before you froze to death . Begin to get the idea ? She turns at last , and looks across at him .
LISA: If there 's one thing I know , it 's how to wear the proper clothes .
JEFF: Huh ? Try and find a raincoat in Brazil . Even when it is n't raining Lisa , on this job you carry one suitcase . Your home is the available transportation . You sleep rarely , athe even less , and sometime the food you even look at when they were alive !
LISA: Jeff , you do n't have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I 'm wrong .
JEFF: If anything , I 'm making it sound good . Let 's face it , Lisa you are n't made for that kind of a life . Few people are .
LISA: You 're too stubborn to argue with .
JEFF: I 'm not stubborn ! I 'm truthful !
LISA: I know . A lesser man would have told me it was one long holiday and I would have awakened to a rude disillusionment .
JEFF: Now if you want to get vicious , I 'd e very happy to accommodate you !
LISA: No . I do n't particularly want that . So that 's it . You wo n't stay here I ca n't go with you .
JEFF: It would be the wrong thing .
LISA: You do n't think either one of us could ever change ?
JEFF: Right now , it does n't seem so .
LISA: I 'm in love with you . I do n't care what you do for a living . Somehow I would just like to be part of it .
JEFF: There 's nothing wrong with you , Lisa . You have the town in the palm of your hand .
LISA: Not quite it seems . Goodbye , Jeff .
JEFF: You mean `` goodnight . ''
LISA: I mean what I said .
JEFF: Lisa !
LISA: Without any future ?
JEFF: Well when 'll I see you again ?
LISA: Not for a long time . Not , at least until tomorrow night .
GUNNISON: Hello .
JEFF: Gunnison ?
GUNNISON: Yeah . Is that you , Jeff ?
JEFF: It 's me .
GUNNISON: Something wrong ?
JEFF: The word is `` everything . '' Now what time does my plane leave Tuesday ?
GUNNISON: Jeff
JEFF: I do n't care where it goes just as long as I 'm on it .
GUNNISON: Okay . Indo-China . Tuesday . We 'll pick you up .
JEFF: That 's more like it . Goodnight , old uddy .
GUNNISON: Yeah .
STELLA: You 'd think the rain would have cooled things off . All it did was make the heat wet .
JEFF: That 's a stiff one .
STELLA: The insurance Company would be a lot happier if you slept in your bed , not the wheelchair .
JEFF: How did you know !
STELLA: Eyes bloodshot . Must have been staring out the window for hours .
JEFF: I was .
STELLA: What 'll you do if one of them catches you ?
JEFF: Depends one which one . She stops massaging , reaches for the oil .
STELLA: Keep your mind off her .
JEFF: She 's real eat , drink and be merry girl .
STELLA: And she 'll end up fat , alcoholic and miserable .
JEFF: Speaking of misery , Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again . Alone .
STELLA: Poor girl . Someday she 'll find he happiness .
JEFF: And some man will lose his .
STELLA: Is n't there anyone in the neighborhood who might cast an eye in he direction ?
JEFF: Well , the salesman could be available soon .
STELLA: He and his wife splitting up ?
JEFF: It 's hard to figure . He went out several time last night , in the rain carrying his sample case .
STELLA: Is n't he a salesman ?
JEFF: Now what could he sell at three in the morning ?
STELLA: Flashlights . Luminous dials fo watches . House numbers that light up .
JEFF: He was taking something out of the apartment . I 'm certain . She helps him to a sitting position .
STELLA: His personal effects . He 's probably unning away the coward .
JEFF: Sometimes it 's worse to stay than it is to run .
STELLA: But it takes a particularly low type of man to do it .
JEFF: No . The shades are still drawn in their apartment .
STELLA: In this heat ? They 're up now .
JEFF: Get back ! Out of sight ! Quick !
STELLA: What is it ? What 's the matter ? Jeff keeps his eyes trained on the window .
JEFF: The salesman 's looking out his window .
STELLA: A Federal offense .
JEFF: Get back there ! He 'll see you ! She moves back into the shadows .
STELLA: I 'm not shy . I 've been looked at efore .
JEFF: It 's not an ordinary look . It 's the kind of look a man gives when he 's afraid somebody might be watching him .
STELLA: Goodbye , Mr. Jefferies . I 'll see you tomorrow .
JEFF: Uh-huh .
STELLA: And do n't sleep in the chair again .
JEFF: Uh-huh .
STELLA: Uh-huh . Uh-huh . Great conversationalist .
JEFF: Stella .
STELLA: Trouble . I cam smell it . I 'll be glad when they crack that cast , and I get out of here .
LISA: How far does a girl have to go efore you notice her ?
JEFF: If she 's pretty enough , she does n't have to go anywhere . She just has to `` be '' .
LISA: Well , `` ai n't I ? '' Pay attention to me .
JEFF: I 'm not exactly on the other side of the room .
LISA: Your mind is . And when I want a man , I want all of him . She starts kissing him .
JEFF: Do n't you ever have any problems ?
LISA: I have one now .
JEFF: So do I .
LISA: Tell me about it .
JEFF: Why would a man leave his apartment three times , on a rainy night , with a suitcase ? And come back three times ?
LISA: He likes the way his wife welcomes him home .
JEFF: Not that salesman 's wife . And why did n't he go to work today ?
LISA: Homework . It 's more interesting .
JEFF: What 's interesting about a butcher 's knife and a small saw wrapped up in a newspaper ?
LISA: Nothing , thank heaven .
JEFF: Why has n't he gone into his wife 's edroom all day ?
LISA: I would n't dare answer that .
JEFF: Lisa there 's something terribly wrong .
LISA: And I 'm afraid it 's with me .
JEFF: What do you think ?
LISA: Something too frightful to utter .
JEFF: He went out a few minutes ago in his undershirt and he has n't come ack yet .
LISA: Jeff I 'll be honest with you you 're beginning to scare me a little .
JEFF: Be quiet ! Shhh ! He 's coming back !
LISA: Jeff if you could only see yourself .
JEFF: Now , Lisa
LISA: Sitting around , looking out a window to kill time , is one thing but doing it the way you are with , with binoculars , and with wild opinions about every little movement you see is , is diseased !
JEFF: Do you think I consider this ecreation ?
LISA: I do n't know what you consider it ut if you do n't stop it , I 'm getting out of here .
JEFF: You 'd better before you catch the disease !
LISA: What is it you 're looking for ?
JEFF: I want to find out what 's wrong with the salesman 's wife . Does that make me sound like a madman ?
LISA: What makes you think something 's wrong with her ?
JEFF: Where 's the doctor the undertakers ?
LISA: She could be under sedatives , sleeping . He 's in the room now .
JEFF: Lisa , please !
LISA: There 's nothing to see .
JEFF: There is I 've seen things through that window ! Bickering , family fights , mysterious trips at night , knives , saws , rope and since last evening , not a sight or sound of his wife ! Now you tell me where she is and what she 's doing !
LISA: Maybe he 's leaving his wife . I do n't know , and I do n't care . Lots of people have saws , knives and ropes around their houses . Lots of men do n't speak to their wives all day . Lots of wives nag , and men hate them , and trouble starts but very , very , very few of them end up in murder if that 's what you 're thinking .
JEFF: It 's pretty hard to stay away from that word is n't is ?
LISA: You could see all the things he did , could n't you ?
JEFF: What are you getting at ?
LISA: You could see that he did because he had the shades in his apartment up , and walked along the corridor , and the streets and the backyard ?
JEFF: Yeah .
LISA: Jeff , do you think a murderer would let you see all that ? That he should n't keep his shades down and hide behind them ?
JEFF: That 's where he 's being clever . Acting nonchalant .
LISA: And that 's where you 're not being clever . He would n't parade his crime in front of the open shades .
JEFF: No comment .
LISA: Do n't you see how silly you 're being ?
JEFF: Okay , Lisa probably you 're right . He 's probably in the bedroom now , entertaining his wife with the indian ope trick . I 'll admit to criminal insanity . Now when do I start the cure ?
LISA: Let 's start from the beginning again , Jeff . Tell me everything you saw and what you think it means .
JEFF: Yeah ?
LISA: The name on the second floor rea mailbox reads Mr. And Mrs. Lars , that 's L-A-R-S , Lars Thorwald .
JEFF: What 's the apartment house number ?
LISA: 125 West Ninth Street .
JEFF: Thanks , Lisa .
LISA: Okay , chief . What 's my next assignment .
JEFF: To get on home .
LISA: All right but what 's he doing now ?
JEFF: Just sitting in the living room . In the dark . And he has n't gone nea the bedroom . Now get some sleep . Goodnight .
STELLA: Police ?
JEFF: Huh ?
STELLA: You called the police ?
JEFF: Oh . Well , yes and no . It was n't an official call . He 's just a friend . An old , ornery friend .
STELLA: Now just where do you suppose he cut her up ?
STELLA'S VOICE: He 'd better get that trunk out of there before is starts to leak .
GIRL'S VOICE: H-a-a-r-r-e-e
STELLA'S VOICE: Look ! Look Mr. Jefferies !
JEFF: I thought Doyle would get here before the trunk went or I 'd have called the police . Now we 're going to lose it .
STELLA: I 'm just going to get the name of their truck !
JEFF: I 'll watch the alleyway in case it goes that way .
DOYLE: You did n't see the killing , or the ody ? How do you know there was a murder ?
JEFF: Because everything that man 's done has been suspicious . Trips at night in the rain , saws , knives , trunks with rope , and a wife that is n't there any more .
DOYLE: I 'll admit it all has a mysterious sound but is could mean a numbe of different things . Murder is the least likely .
JEFF: Go ahead , Doyle tell me he 's an unemployed magician amusing the neighborhood with sleight-of-hand . Doyle paces a little .
DOYLE: It 's too stupid and obvious a way to murder in full view of fifty windows and then sit over there smoking a cigar waiting fo the police to pick him up .
JEFF: Well , officer do your duty .
DOYLE: You 've got a lot to lean about homicide , Jeff . Morons have committed murder so shrewdly that it took a hundred trained police minds to catch them . That salesman would n't just knock off his wife after dinner , toss her in a trunk and put her in storage .
JEFF: I 'll bet it 's been done .
DOYLE: Almost everything 's been done under panic . But this is a thousand to one shot . That man 's still sitting around his apartment ; he is n't panicked .
JEFF: You think I made all this up ?
DOYLE: I think you saw something that probably has a very simple explanation .
JEFF: For instance ?
DOYLE: His wife took a trip .
JEFF: She was an invalid !
DOYLE: You told me . I 've got to run , Jeff .
JEFF: All right you do n't believe me .
DOYLE: I uh wo n't report it to the Department . Let me poke into a little on my own . No point in you getting any ridiculous publicity .
JEFF: Thanks .
DOYLE: We know the wife is gone . I 'll see if I can find out where .
JEFF: Do that .
DOYLE: You have any headaches lately ?
JEFF: Not 'til you showed up .
DOYLE: Uh-huh . Well , it 'll wear off in time along with the hallucinations . See you around .
JEFF: I was jaywalking .
DOYLE: During the race ?
JEFF: Yup . It sure stopped traffic .
DOYLE: He has a six months lease , and has used up a little over five and a half months of it . Quiet . Drinks , but not to drunkenness . Pays his bill promptly , with money earned as a consume jewelry salesman wholesale . Keeps to himself , and none of the neighbors got close to him , or his wife .
JEFF: I think they missed their chance with her .
DOYLE: She never left the apartment
JEFF: Then where is she in the ice box ?
DOYLE: until yesterday morning .
JEFF: What time ?
DOYLE: Six ayem .
JEFF: I think that 's about the time I fell asleep .
DOYLE: Too bad . The Thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that time .
JEFF: Not yet .
DOYLE: Oh oh , she 's fine . Just fine .
JEFF: Who said they left then ?
DOYLE: Who left where ?
JEFF: The Thorwalds at six in the morning ?
DOYLE: The building superintendent , and two tenants . Flat statements no hesitation . And they all jibed to the letter . The Thorwalds were leaving for the railroad station .
JEFF: Now how could anybody guess that ? They had , perhaps , signs on thei luggage , `` Grand Central Or Bust ! `` ?
DOYLE: The superintendent met Thorwald coming ack . He said Thorwald told him he had just put his wife on the train for the country .
JEFF: A very convenient guy this superintendent . Have you checked his ank deposits lately ?
DOYLE: Jeff huh ?
JEFF: Well what good is his information ? ! ! It 's a second-hand version of an unsupported statement y the murderer himself Thorwald ! Anybody actually see the wife get on the train ?
DOYLE: I hate to remind you but this all started because you said she was murdered . Now did anyone , including you , actually see her murdered ?
JEFF: Doyle are you interested in solving a case , or making me look foolish ?
DOYLE: If possible both .
JEFF: Well then do a good job of it ! Get over there , and search Thorwald 's apartment ! It must be knee-deep in evidence .
DOYLE: I ca n't do that .
JEFF: I mean when he goes out for a paper , or a drink , or something . What he does n't know wo n't hurt him .
DOYLE: I ca n't do it even if he 's gone .
JEFF: What 's the matter ? Does he have a courtesy card from the police department ?
DOYLE: Now do n't get me mad ! Even a detective ca n't walk in anybody 's apartment and search it . If I were ever caught in there , I 'd lose my badge inside of ten minutes !
JEFF: Just make sure you 're not caught . If you find something , you 've got a murderer and nobody will care about a couple of house rules . If you find nothing he 's clear .
DOYLE: At the risk of sounding stuffy , Jeff I 'll remind you of the Constitution , and the phrase `` search warrant '' issued y a judge who knows the Bill of Rights verbatim . He must ask fo evidence .
JEFF: Give him evidence .
DOYLE: I can hear myself starting out . `` You Honor I have a friend who 's an amateur sleuth , an one night , afte a heavy supper `` He 'd throw the New York State Penal Code right in my face . And it 's six volumes .
JEFF: By morning there might not be anything left to find in his apartment .
DOYLE: A detective 's nightmare .
JEFF: What do you need before you can search loody footsteps leading up to the door ?
DOYLE: One thing I do n't need is heckling ! You called and asked me for help and now you 're acting like a taxpayer !
JEFF: You know , every day for three years I asked myself that same question ?
DOYLE: Ever get an answer ?
JEFF: Yeah frequently it ran something like this `` Your request for transfe turned down `` He ca n't help smiling , and neither can Doyle .
DOYLE: Sorry I had to turn it down . I 'm going over to the railroad station and check Thorwald 's story .
JEFF: Forget the story find the trunk . Mrs. Thorwald 's in it !
DOYLE: Oh I almost forgot !
JEFF: Is is Anna who I think it is ?
DOYLE: Mrs. Thorwald . He puts on his hat , and goes toward the door .
JEFF: Yeah . A good detective .
MRS. DOYLE: Hello .
JEFF: Mrs. Doyle ?
MRS. DOYLE: Yes .
JEFF: Jeff again . Has Tom come in yet ?
MRS. DOYLE: Not yet , Jeff .
JEFF: You have n't even heard from him ?
MRS. DOYLE: Not a word .
JEFF: I 'm afraid it is , Tess .
MRS. DOYLE: I 'll have him call the moment I hea from him .
JEFF: Tell him not to waste time calling . To get over here soon as he can . I think Thorwald 's pulling out tonight .
MRS. DOYLE: Who 's Thorwald ?
JEFF: He knows . Do n't worry , Tess . It 's a man .
MRS. DOYLE: Goodnight , you idiot .
JEFF: Goodnight , Mrs Doyle .
LISA: It does n't seem to be in any hurry .
JEFF: He was just laying all his things out on one of the beds ! Coats , suits , shirts , sox , even his wife 's
LISA: What about it ?
JEFF: He had it hidden in the dresser ! Well , at least it was in there . He took it out , went to the phone and called somebody long distance . His wife 's jewelry was in the handbag . And something about it worried him . He was asking somebody advice ove the phone .
LISA: Someone not his wife ?
JEFF: I never saw him ask her for advise efore . But she volunteered plenty . Jeff turns back to the window .
LISA: I wonder where he 's going now ?
JEFF: I do n't know .
LISA: Suppose he does n't come back again ?
JEFF: He will . All his things are still piled on the bed .
LISA: Well , I guess it 's safe to put on some lights now .
JEFF: Not yet !
LISA: All day long I 've tried to keep my mind on work .
JEFF: Thinking about Thorwald ?
LISA: And you , and you friend Doyle Did you hear from him again since he left ?
JEFF: Not a word . He was going to check on the railroad station , and the trunk . He must be still on it .
LISA: It does n't make sense to me .
JEFF: What does n't ?
LISA: Women are n't that unpredictable .
JEFF: Lisa I ca n't guess what you 're thinking .
LISA: A woman has a favorite handbag it always hangs on her bedpost where she can get at it . Then she takes a trip and leaves it behind . Why ?
JEFF: Because she did n't know she was going on a trip and where she was going she would n't need a handbag . THE CAMERA eases back .
LISA: But only her husband would know that . And the jewelry ! Women do n't keep all their jewelry in a purse , all tangled , getting scratched and twisted up .
JEFF: Do they hide it in their husband 's clothes ?
LISA: They do not ! And they do n't leave it ehind them . A woman going anywhere ut the hospital would always take makeup , perfume and jewelry .
JEFF: Inside stuff ?
LISA: Basic equipment . You do n't leave it ehind in your husband 's drawer in your favorite handbag .
JEFF: I 'm with you , sweetie , but Detective Thomas J. Doyle has a pat answer fo that .
LISA: That Mrs. Thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband ?
JEFF: That 's what the witnesses told him .
LISA: Well , I have a pat rebuttal for Mr. Doyle that could n't be Mrs. Thorwald or I do n't know women .
JEFF: Still those witnesses .
LISA: We 'll agree they saw a woman but she was n't Mrs. Thorwald . That is , yet .
JEFF: Come here .
LISA: I 'd like to see your friend 's face when we tell him . He does n't sound like much of a detective .
JEFF: Do n't be too hard on him . He 's a steady worker . I wish he 'd get there , though .
LISA: Do n't rush me . We have all night .
JEFF: We have all what ?
LISA: Night . I 'm going to stay with you .
JEFF: You 'll have to clear that through my landlord
LISA: I have the whole weekend off .
JEFF: Well that 's fine , but I only have one bed , and
LISA: Say anything else , and I 'll stay tomorrow night too .
JEFF: Lisa , I wo n't be able to give you any
LISA: You said I 'd have to live out of one suitcase I 'll bet yours is n't this small ?
JEFF: That 's a suitcase ?
LISA: A Mark Cross overnight case , anyway . Compact , but ample enough .
JEFF: I 'd be no better than Thorwald , to efuse .
LISA: There 's that song again .
JEFF: From his landlord once a month .
LISA: It 's utterly beautiful . I wish I could be creative .
JEFF: You are . You have a talent fo creating difficult situations .
LISA: I do ?
JEFF: Staying the night here , uninvited .
LISA: Surprise is the most important element of attack . And beside , you 're not up on you private eye literature . When they 're in trouble , it 's always their Girl Friday who gets them out of it .
JEFF: The same girl who keeps him out of the clutches of seductive show girls , and over-passionate daughters of the ich .
LISA: The same .
JEFF: But he never ends up marrying her . Strange .
LISA: Weird . Why do n't I slip into something comfortable ?
JEFF: You mean like the kitchen ? And make us some coffee ?
LISA: Exactly what I had in mind along with some brandy .
GIRL'S VOICE: H-a-a-r-r-e-e- !
DOYLE: What else do you have on this man Thorwald ?
JEFF: Enough to scare me that you would n't get here in time , and we 'd lose him .
DOYLE: You think he 's getting out of here ?
JEFF: Everything he owns is laid out on the bedroom , ready for packing .
LISA: I 'm just warming some brandy .
JEFF: Tom , this is Miss Lisa Fremont .
DOYLE: How do you do ? Lisa smiles in return .
LISA: We think Thorwald 's guilty .
JEFF: Careful , Tom .
DOYLE: Doyle speaking . Uh-huh . Yeah . Mummmm Mmm . Hmm Okay . Thank you , and goodbye .
LISA: The coffee will be ready soon . Jeff , are n't you going to tell him about the jewelry ?
DOYLE: Jewelry ?
JEFF: He has his wife 's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there .
DOYLE: You sure it belongs to his wife ? He turns his head to Lisa , who answers .
LISA: It was in her favorite handbag And , Mr. Doyle , that can lead to only one conclusion .
DOYLE: Namely ? His head snaps back to Jeff , who answers
JEFF: That was n't Mrs. Thorwald who left with him yesterday morning ?
DOYLE: You figured that out , huh ?
LISA: It 's just that women do n't leave jewelry behind when they go on a trip .
JEFF: Come on , Tom you do n't really need any of this information , do you ?
DOYLE: As a matter of fact , I do n't .
JEFF: You mean you can explain everything that went on over there and is still going on ?
DOYLE: No ! He starts to place the room .
LISA: Like disposing of their wives ?
DOYLE: Get that idea out of your mind . It will only lead you in the wrong direction .
JEFF: But Tom the saw , the knives
DOYLE: Did you ever own a saw ?
JEFF: Well , in the garage , back home , we
DOYLE: And how many people did you cut up with the couple of with it ? Or hundred knives you 've probably owned in you lifetime ?
JEFF: But I 'm not a killer !
DOYLE: Your logic is backward . Lisa cuts in spiritedly .
LISA: You ca n't ignore the wife disappearing ! And the trunk and the jewelry !
DOYLE: I checked the railroad station . He ought a ticket . He put her on the train ten minutes later . Destination Merritsville . Witnesses . This deep .
LISA: It might have been a woman but it could n't have been Mrs. Thorwald . That jewelry
DOYLE: Look , Miss Fremont . That feminine intuition sells magazines but in eal life , it 's still a fairy tale . I do n't know how many wasted years I 've spent running down leads based on women 's intuitions .
JEFF: I take it you did n't find the trunk And this is just an old speech you once gave at the Policeman 's Ball .
DOYLE: I found the trunk a half hou after I left here .
LISA: Of course , it 's normal for a man to tie his trunk up with a heavy rope .
DOYLE: When the lock is broken yes .
JEFF: What was in the trunk ? A surly note to me ?
DOYLE: Mrs. Thorwald 's clothes . Clean carefully packed not too stylish but presentable .
LISA: Did n't you take it to the crime lab ? Doyle gives her a scathing look .
DOYLE: I sent it on its merry and legal way .
JEFF: Why when a woman only goes on a simple trip , does she take everything she owns ?
DOYLE: Let the female psychology department handle that one .
LISA: I would say that is looked as if she was n't coming back .
DOYLE: That 's what they call a family problem .
JEFF: If his wife was n't coming back why did n't he tell his landlord ? I 'll answer it for you because he had something to hide .
DOYLE: Do uh you tell your landlord everything ?
JEFF: I told you to be careful . Lisa looks down at Jeff , not comprehending .
DOYLE: If I 'd been careful piloting that econnaissance plane , you would n't have taken the kind of pictures that got you a medal , a big job , fame , money
JEFF: All the things I hate .
DOYLE: Now what do you say we sit down to a quiet , friendly drink or two forget all about this , and tell lies about the old days in the war ? Hmmm ? He looks from one to the other .
LISA: You 're through with the case ?
DOYLE: There is n't any `` case '' to be through with , Miss Fremont . Now let 's get down to that friendly drink .
LISA: I hate funny exit lines .
JEFF: Who was the trunk addressed to ?
DOYLE: Mrs. Anna Thorwald . He starts up the steps to the door .
JEFF: Let 's wait and see who picks it up .
DOYLE: Oh that phone call ! I gave them your number hope you do n't mind .
JEFF: That depends on who `` they '' were .
DOYLE: The police Department at Merritsville . They called to report . The trunk was just picked up by Mrs. Anna Thorwald . He puts on his hat , smiles , and says .
LISA: Look .
JEFF: As much as I hate to give Thomas J. Doyle too much credit , he might have gotten a hold of something when he said this was pretty private stuff going on out there .
LISA: I 'm not much on rear window ethics .
JEFF: Of course , they have the same chance . They can look at me like a bug unde glass , if they want to .
LISA: Jeff if anybody walked in here , I do n't think they 'd believe what they see .
JEFF: Huh ?
LISA: You and me with long faces plunged into despair because we find out that a man did n't kill his wife . We 're two of the most frightening ghouls I 've ever known . Jeff starts to smile at the realization .
JEFF: I think I 'll start reviving it tomorrow , with say Miss Torso fo a start ?
LISA: Not if I have to move into an apartment across the courtyard and do the dance of the seven veils once an hour . Show 's over for tonight .
JEFF: No , Lisa I do n't think he did .
LISA: What do you think ?
JEFF: Thank you . Lisa holds out the folds of her kimono .
LISA: Do you like it ?
JEFF: Well , if there was one less thread this way and two less that way I might give up bachelorhood . Lisa turns playfully toward the kitchen .
LISA: I 'll be right back .
LONELY HEARTS: It 's dead ! It 's been strangled and the neck is broken !
SIFFLEUSE: Which one of you did it ? Which one of you killed my dog ? You do n't know the meaning of the word `` neighbor '' . Neighbors like each other speak to each other care if anybody lives or dies . But none of you do ! You do n't talk , you do n't help , you you do n't - Even see . But I could n't imagine any Even of you being so low that you 'd kill a little helpless , friendly dog ! The only thing in this whole neighborhood who liked anybody !
JEFF: For a minute , Doyle almost had me convinced I was wrong .
LISA: But you 're not ?
JEFF: In the whole courtyard , only one person did n't come to the window .
LISA: Why would Thorwald want to kill a dog ? Because it knew too much ?
JEFF: Do you think this was worth waiting all day to see ?
LISA: Is he cleaning house ?
JEFF: He 's washing down the bathroom walls .
STELLA: Must have splattered a lot .
LISA: Stella , your choice of words Stella also turns , interrupting he
STELLA: Nobody 's invented polite words yet for killing .
JEFF: Lisa Lisa on the shelf ove there get me the small yellow box
LISA: Jeff what are you looking for ?
JEFF: Something that if I 'm right might solve a murder . He looks back through the viewer .
STELLA: Mrs. Thorwald ?
JEFF: Uh-uh . The dog . I think I know now why Thorwald killed it .
LISA: It 's just a picture of the backyard , that 's all .
JEFF: I know . But there 's one important change . The flowers in Thorwald 's pet flower bed .
STELLA: You mean the one the dog was sniffing around ?
JEFF: And digging in . Look at that flower bed . They all lean forward to look .
STELLA: There 's something buried there .
LISA: Mrs. Thorwald !
STELLA: You have n't spent much time in cemeteries , have you ? Mr. Thorwald could hardly put his wife into a plot of ground scarcely one foot square .
LISA: Stella , please .
JEFF: Something 's in there . Those flowers have been taken up , and put back again .
LISA: It could be the knife , and the saw .
STELLA: Call Lieutenant Doyle !
LISA: No let 's wait . Let 's wait until it gets dark . I 'll go over and dig it up !
JEFF: I 'm not going to call Doyle until I show him the body of Mrs. Thorwald And you 're not going to dig up anything , an get your neck broken too .
STELLA: He 's starting to pack .
JEFF: You did it , Thorwald ! You did it !
STELLA: You should n't have let her do that ! If he ever
JEFF: Look !
STELLA: Thank heaven that 's over !
JEFF: I have a feeling we 've just begun .
STELLA: Mind if I use the portable keyhole ? Jeff hands it to her .
JEFF: Not as long as you tell me what you 're looking at . She lifts it to her eye .
STELLA: I wonder .
JEFF: What ?
STELLA: Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules .
JEFF: You can tell that from here ?
STELLA: I handled enough of those red pills to put everybody in New Jersey asleep for the winter .
JEFF: Would four of them ?
STELLA: No but it makes the rest easy to take . And she 's reading the Bible .
JEFF: Then I would n't worry too much . But let 's keep an eye on her .
STELLA: You know ? You might not be too bad a argain for Lisa after all .
JEFF: You do n't say ! I might just take that compliment as an insult .
LISA: Was n't that close ?
JEFF: Too close . She comes down the stairs .
LISA: What was his reaction ? I mean when he looked at the note ?
STELLA: Well , it was n't the kind of expression that would get him a quick loan at the bank . Lisa comes close to Jeff , speaks warmly .
LISA: Jeff how did I do ? He takes her hands .
JEFF: Real professional . Would have made a great layout for the Bazaar . The model pressed back against a brick wall , eyes wild , tense . Low cut odice , in new suspicious black , with a
STELLA: You 'd make a good door prize at a wake .
LISA: Jeff the handbag .
JEFF: Suppose Mrs. Thorwald 's wedding ring was among the jewelry he has in the handbag . During that phone conversation he held up three rings one with a diamond one with a big stone of some kind and one plain gold band .
LISA: And the last thing she 'd leave behind would be her wedding ring ! Do you ever leave yours at home ?
STELLA: The only way anybody could get that off would be to chop my finger Let 's go down and find out what 's uried in the garden .
LISA: Why not ? I always wanted to meet Mrs. Thorwald . Jeff looks at them aghast .
JEFF: What are you two talking about ?
STELLA: Got a shovel ?
JEFF: No .
STELLA: There 's probably one in the basement .
JEFF: Now wait a minute
LISA: Jeff , if you 're squeamish , just do n't look .
JEFF: Now hold on . I 'm not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers but I do n't care to watch two women end up like that dog
STELLA: You know , Miss Fremont he might just have something there .
JEFF: There 's no point in taking unnecessary chances . Give me the phone book , Lisa .
LISA: What for ?
JEFF: Maybe I can get Thorwald out of the apartment . Lisa hands him the book .
STELLA: We only need a few minutes .
JEFF: I 'll try to give you at least fifteen minutes .
LISA: How ?
JEFF: Chelsea 2-7099 . We scared him once . Maybe we can scare him again . I 'm using that word `` we '' a little too freely , I guess . I do n't take any of the chances .
LISA: Shall we vote him in , Stella ?
STELLA: Unanimously .
JEFF: Go ahead , Thorwald pick it up . You 're curious . You wonder if it 's your girl friend calling . The one you killed for . Pick it up , Thorwald ! Quickly Thorwald does pick it up .
THORWALD: Hello .
JEFF: Did you get my note ?
THORWALD: Who are you ?
JEFF: I 'll give you a chance to find out . Meet me in the bar at the Brevoort and do it right away .
THORWALD: Why should I ?
JEFF: For a little business meeting to settle the estate of your late wife .
THORWALD: I do n't know what you mean .
JEFF: Now stop wasting time , Thorwald , o I 'll hang up and call the police .
THORWALD: I only have a hundred dollars or so .
JEFF: That 's a start . I 'm at the Brevoort now . I 'll be looking for you .
LISA: Let 's go , Stella .
JEFF: One of you watch this window . If I see him coming back , I 'll signal with a flashbulb .
BABY SITTER: This is Doyle 's house .
JEFF: This is L. B. Jefferies , a friend of Tom 's . Who am I talking with ? He squints out the window .
BABY SITTER: This is the baby sitter .
JEFF: Oh . When are they expected home ?
BABY SITTER: I 'm hired 'til one . They went to dinner and maybe night-clubbing .
JEFF: Well , if he calls in , tell him to get in touch with L. B. Jefferies ight away . I might have quite a surprise for him .
BABY SITTER: Does he have your number , Mr. Jefferies ?
JEFF: He has it . Thank you .
BABY SITTER: Goodnight .
JEFF: Lisa no !
STELLA: Ring Thorwald 's phone the second you see him on the way back !
JEFF: I 'm going to ring him now !
STELLA: Give her another minute She 's doing this for you .
JEFF: Lisa ! Lisa !
POLICE: Precinct Six Sergeant Allgood .
JEFF: A man is assaulting a woman at one two five west ninth street . Second floor rear . Make it fast .
POLICE: Your name ?
JEFF: L. B. Jefferies .
POLICE: Phone number ?
JEFF: Chelsea 2-5598 .
POLICE: Two minutes .
JEFF: Stella what can we do ?
STELLA: There they are . Jeff looks up quickly .
JEFF: Smart girl .
STELLA: Smart ? She 'll be arrested !
JEFF: That 'll get her out of there , wo n't it ?
STELLA: Mrs. Thorwald 's ring !
JEFF: Stella ! The lights ! He 'd seen us !
STELLA: When you took your first snapshot did you ever think it would bring you to this ?
JEFF: Stella how long do you think he 'll stay there ?
STELLA: Unless he 's dumber than I think , he wo n't wait 'til his lease is up . Jeff points to a drawer in the wall cabinets .
JEFF: My billfold ! In the right hand drawer . Stella moves to get it .
STELLA: What do you need money for ?
JEFF: To bail Lisa out of jail .
STELLA: You know you could just leave he there until after next Tuesday so you could sneak away safely as planned .
JEFF: One hundred and twenty-seven .
STELLA: How much do you think you 'll need ?
JEFF: First offense burglary probably two-fifty . The piggy bank .
STELLA: Ten here .
JEFF: Thirty-three here . Totals one-ninety . Not enough .
STELLA: I got twenty or so in my purse . Give me what you 've got . Jeff does , as Stella gets her purse .
JEFF: What about the rest ?
STELLA: When those cops get a look at Miss Fremont they 'll even contribute .
JEFF: Just a minute . I 'll tell you who it is when you get ack .
DOYLE: This is Doyle , Jeff .
JEFF: Tom , I 've got something real big fo you .
DOYLE: Look Jeff , do n't louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be
JEFF: Listen to me ! Lisa 's been arrested .
DOYLE: Your Lisa ?
JEFF: My Lisa . She went into Thorwald 's apartment , and he came back . The only way I could get her out was to call the police .
DOYLE: I told you that
JEFF: I know what you told me ! She went in to get evidence , and she came out with it .
DOYLE: Like what ?
JEFF: Like Mrs. Thorwald 's wedding ring . If that woman were still alive , she 'd e wearing it .
DOYLE: A possibility .
JEFF: A fact ! Last night he killed a dog for pawing in his garden . Why ? Because he had something buried in there . Something a dog could scent .
DOYLE: Like an old hambone ?
JEFF: I do n't know what pet name Thorwald had for his wife . And that night he went out half a dozen times with the metal suitcase . He was n't taking his possessions , because they 're up in his apartment now !
DOYLE: You think perhaps it was `` old hambone ? ''
JEFF: In sections ! And one other thing , doubting Tom it just occurred to me that all the calls Thorwald made were long distance ! If he called his wife the day she left after she arrived in Merritsville why did she need to send him a postcard saying she 'd arrived ?
DOYLE: Where 'd they take Lisa ?
JEFF: Precinct Six . I sent a friend ove with bail money .
DOYLE: Maybe you wo n't need it . I 'll run it down , Jeff .
JEFF: Just do n't dally . Thorwald knows he 's being watched . He wo n't hang around long .
DOYLE: If that ring checks out , we 'll give him an escort . So long .
MISS TORSO: Have you heard that song he 's been writing ?
JEFF: Hello . Hello , Doyle ? Tom ? Tom , I think Thorwald 's left . I do n't see anything of Hello .
THORWALD: What do you want from me ?
JEFF: No .
THORWALD: Tell her to bring it back ! He advances a step .
JEFF: I ca n't . The police have it by now .
THORWALD: Then if the police get me you wo n't be around to laugh !
LISA: Jeff ! Jeff !
DOYLE: Creel ! Your Thirty-eight !
LISA: Jeff Jeff darling ! He opens his eyes . Winces with pain .
JEFF: Lisa I I ca n't tell you how scared I was that you you might
LISA: Shut up . I 'm all right .
JEFF: Think you 've got enough for a search warrant now ?
DOYLE: Oh sure . Sure . I can make it .
DETECTIVE: Lieutenant Doyle ?
DOYLE: Did he say what was buried in the flower bed ?
DETECTIVE: Yeah . It 's over in his apartment . In a hat box . Wan na look ? Doyle turns quizzically at Stella .
STELLA: Oh , no thanks I do n't want any of part of he What did I say ?
THE END: < /pre
BUZZ: That was pretty what you were whistling . Whistle some more .
MAN: Oh , I think so
BUZZ: You smoke it . Smoke it , Dad .
SERGEANT: Mixed up in that beating on Twelfth Street ?
OFFICER: No . Plain drunkenness .
SERGEANT: This says he was picked up there .
OFFICER: They had him on the carpet for an hour at Headquarters . He 's clear . Plain drunkenness .
SERGEANT: Young squirt . All rightYou want to lean him against something ? Stand him over there .
GENE: You going to tell me your name now ? The little boy shakes his head .
LITTLE BOY: Where 's your hair ?
GENE: It 's all gone .
LITTLE BOY: Did you get a haircut ?
GENE: Noit just fell out !
LITTLE BOY: Aw
RAY: What gang does he belong to ?
GENE: Give him a couple of years .
RAY: Where 's your mamma , honey ?
LITTLE BOY: I do n't know .
RAY: Judywe 're ready for you now .
JUDY: He hates me .
RAY: What ?
JUDY: He hates me .
RAY: What makes you think he hates you , Judy ?
JUDY: I do n't think . I know . He looks at me like I 'm the ugliest thing in the world . He does n't like my friendshe RAY leads her into the office .
RAY: He makes you feel pretty unhappy ?
JUDY: He calls me a dirty trampmy own father !
RAY: Do you think your father means that ?
JUDY: Yes ! I do n't know ! I mean maybe he does n't mean it but he acts like he does . We 're altogether and we 're going to celebrate Easter and catch a double bill . Big deal . So I put on my new dress and I came out and he
RAY: That one ?
JUDY: Yeshe started yelling for a handkerchiefscreaming . He grabbed my face and he rubbed all my lipstick offhe rubbed till I thought I would n't have any lips left . And all the time yelling at methat thingthe thing I told you he called me . Then I ran out of the house .
RAY: Is that why you were wandering around at one o'clock in the morning ?
JUDY: I was just talking a walk . I tried to call the kids but everybody was out and I could n't find them . I hate my life . I just hate it .
RAY: You were n't looking for company , were you ?
JUDY: No .
RAY: Did you stop to talk to anyone , Judy ? Do you enjoy that ?
JUDY: No . I do n't even know why I do it .
RAY: Do you think you can get back at your Dad that way ? I mean sometimes if we ca n't get as close to somebody as we 'd like we have to try making them jealousso they 'll have to pay attention . Did you ever think of that ?
JUDY: I 'll never get close to anybody .
RAY: Some kids stomped a man on Twelfth Street , Judy .
JUDY: You know where they picked me up ! Twelfth Street ! I was n't even nea there !
RAY: Would you like to go home if we can arrange it ? Did you notify the parents ?
WOMAN OFFICER: She would n't give me their number .
RAY: What 's your number , Judy ? We 'll see if your Dad will come and get you . JUDY looks up hopefully .
JUDY: Lexington 05549 .
OFFICER: Hey ! JIM continues for a moment .
JIM: Want me to imitate a stupid cop ?
OFFICER: Cut it out now . I 'm warning you .
JIM: Yes , ma'am .
NEGRO WOMAN: You shivering , John ? You cold ? PLATO shakes his head . JIM notices him .
JIM: Want my jacket ? PLATO looks up at JIM .
RAY: Your mother will be down in a few minutes , Judy
JUDY: What ?
RAY: Your mother will be down in a few minutes .
JUDY: My mother ?
RAY: She 's being called for .
JUDY: You said you 'd call my father .
RAY: Goodbye , Judy . Take it easy .
GENE: John Crawford ?
NEGRO WOMAN: Yes , sir .
GENE: Come with me , John .
JIM: Happy Easter . Tight shot . The family .
MOTHER: Where were you tonight ? They called us at the club and I got the fright of my life ! Silence .
FATHER: Where were you tonight , Jimbo ? Close shot . JIM . He says nothing . Close shot . FATHER laughing uncomfortably . Med . shot . JIM .
JIM: You think I 'm funny ?
GENE: Do you know why you shot those puppies , John ? Is that what they call you or do you have a nickname ?
PLATO: Plato .
NEGRO WOMAN: You talk to the man nice now , hear ? He 's going to help you .
PLATO: Nobody can help me .
GENE: Can you tell me why you killed the puppies , Plato ?
PLATO: No , sir . I just went next door to look at them like I always do . They were nursing on their mothe and I did it . I guess I 'm just no good ?
GENE: What do you think 's going to happen , you do things like that ?
PLATO: I do n't know . End up in the electric chair ?
GENE: Where did you get the gun ?
PLATO: In my mother 's drawer .
NEGRO WOMAN: She keep it to protect herself , sir . She scared without a man in the house .
GENE: Where 's your mother tonight , Plato ?
PLATO: She 's away .
NEGRO WOMAN: Seems like she 's always going somewhere . She got a sister in Chicago and she go for the holiday . She says her sister is all the family she has .
GENE: Where 's your father ? PLATO is silent .
NEGRO WOMAN: They not together , sir . We do n't see him in a long time now .
GENE: Do you hear from him , son ?
PLATO: Head-shrinker ?
NEGRO WOMAN: Oh , Mrs. Crawford do n't believe in them !
GENE: Well maybe she better start .
FATHER: I do n't see what 's so bad about taking a little drink .
RAY: You do n't ?
FATHER: No . I definitely do n't . I did the sa
RAY: He 's a minor , Mr. Stark , and it looks to me like he had more than a little drink .
FATHER: Say , listen
MOTHER: Jimdo n't hum .
FATHER: I guess I cut pretty loose in my day too .
MOTHER: Really , Frank ? When was that ?
FATHER: Listenca n't you wait till we get home ?
RAY: Whoa ! Whoa ! I know you 're a little upset but
FATHER: Sorry .
RAY: What about you , Jim ? Got anything to say for yourself ? JIM stops humming and shrugs .
MOTHER: Ca n't you answer ? What 's the matter with you anyhow ?
FATHER: He 's just loaded , honey .
MOTHER: I was talking to Jim .
FATHER: Let me just explain to youwe just moved here , y'understand ? The kid has no friends yet and
JIM: Tell him why we moved here .
FATHER: Hold it , Jim .
JIM: You ca n't protect me .
FATHER: You mind if I try ? You have to slam the door in my face ? I try to get to himwhat happens ? Do n't I give you everything you want ? A bicycleyou get a bicycle . A car
JIM: You buy me many things . Thank you .
FATHER: Not just buy ! You hear all this talk about not lovely your kids enough . We give you love and affection , do n't we ?
MOTHER: A minute ago you said you did n't care if he drinks .
GRANDMA: He said a little drink .
JIM: You 're tearing me apart !
MOTHER: What ?
JIM: Stop tearing me apart ! You say one thing and he says another and then everybody changes back
MOTHER: That 's a fine way to behave !
GRANDMA: Well you know who he takes after !
RAY: Outside , Jim . Come outside .
FATHER: Sure . Sure . GENE 's office . RAY and JIM alone .
JIM: Someone should put poison in he epsom salts .
RAY: Grandma ? No answer . JIM turns away from RAY .
JIM: Get lost .
RAY: Hang loose , boy . I 'm warning you .
JIM: Wash up and go home .
RAY: Big tough character . You do n't kid me , pal . How come you 're not wearing your boots ?
JIM: No .
RAY: Sure it is . You want to bug us till we have to lock you up . Why ?
JIM: Leave me alone .
RAY: No .
JIM: I do n't know why !
RAY: Go ondo n't give me that . Someone giving you hard looks ?
JIM: I just get so Boy , sometimes the temperature goes way up .
RAY: Okay . Okay . Let it out . JIM starts crying .
JIM: All the time ! I do n't know what gets into mebut I keep looking for trouble and I alwaysI swea you better lock me up . I 'm going to smash somebodyI know it .
RAY: Try the desk .
JIM: And they think they are protecting my by moving .
RAY: You were getting a good start in the wrong direction back there . Why did you do it ?
JIM: Mess that kid up ? RAY just nods .
RAY: And your folks did n't understand ?
JIM: They never do .
RAY: So then you moved ?
JIM: They think I 'll make friends if we move . Just move and everything 'll e roses and sunshine .
RAY: But you do n't think that 's a solution . JIM is silent ; he picks at his nails .
JIM: She eats him alive and he takes it .
RAY: What ?
JIM: A zoo . He always wants to be my pal , you know ? But how can I give him anything when he'sI mean I love him and I do n't want to hurt himbut I do n't know what to do anymore except maybe die .
RAY: Pretty mixed up ?
JIM: If he could
RAY: `` If he could '' what ? You mean you father ?
JIM: I mean if he had the guts to knock Mom cold once I bet she 'd be happy and I bet she 'd stop picking . They make mush out of him . Just mush . One thing I know is I never want to e like him .
RAY: Chicken ?
JIM: I bet you see right through me , do n't you ? RAY shrugs .
RAY: You got me , Jimbut they do . Want some water ?
JIM: Boyif I had one day when I did n't have to be all confused and ashamed of everythingor I felt I belonged some place .
RAY: Here . Look , will you do something for me ? If the pot starts boiling again , will you come and see me efore you get yourself in a jam ? Even if you just want to talkcome in and shoot the breeze . It 's easier sometimes than talking to your folks .
JIM: Okay
RAY: Any timeday or night . You calmed down enough to go back now ?
JIM: You serious ? RAY smiles and opens the door .
MOTHER: All right , darling .
GRANDMA: This was all very unfortunate , but he made a mistake and he 's sorry so we 're not going to have any more trouble . He 's always been a lovely oy
JIM: Lovely ! Grandmaif you tell another lie you 're going to turn to stone .
RAY: Luck , Jim . Do n't forget .
FATHER: Have some cigars .
RAY: No thanks , I do n't smoke .
FATHER: Go onGive 'em to your friends .
RAY: Nothanks , very much , Mr. Stark .
MOTHER: Frankhe does n't want any .
JUDY: Beau !
BEAU: Yes !
MOTHER: Sit down and eatyou 'll be late .
JIM: It 'd stick in my throat , Mom . I 'm nervous or something
GRANDMA: It 's a wonder we do n't all have TB or some other terrible disease after living in all those smokey cities !
MOTHER: Well , drink your milk anyhow .
GRANDMA: There are n't so many factories here .
FATHER: Mother
JIM: You make any sandwiches ?
FATHER: My first day of school , mother 'd make me eat and by golly I could never even swallow till recess
MOTHER: There 's nothing to be nervous about . Here 's peanut butter and meat loaf
GRANDMA: What did I tell you ? Peanut butter !
MOTHER: Well , there 's a thermos of orange juice and some apple-sauce cake in the wax paper to wash it down .
GRANDMA: I baked that !
JIM: 'Bye , Mom .
MOTHER: Goodbye , dear .
FATHER: So long , young fella . Knock 'em dead , like your old man used to !
JIM: Sure You know something ? I have a feeling we 're going to stay here .
FATHER: And listenwatch out about the pals you chooseKnow what I mean ? Do n't let them choose you But JIM is on his way out .
JUDY: Beau ! All rightgo to school alone !
JIM: Hey !
JUDY: Bully for you .
JIM: You do n't have to be unfriendly .
JUDY: Now that 's true !
JIM: See ?
JUDY: `` Life is crushing in on me . ''
JIM: `` Life can be beautiful . '' Hey , I know where it was .
JUDY: Where what was .
JIM: Where I saw you . Everything going okay now ? You live around here ?
JUDY: Who lives ?
JIM: See , I 'm new .
JUDY: Wo n't mother be proud .
JIM: You 're really flippedare n't you . JUDY looks up a little surprised .
JUDY: You going there ?
JIM: Yeahwhy
JUDY: Dig the square wardrobe !
JIM: Yeah . So where 's the high school ?
JUDY: University and 10thWant to carry my books ? An auto horn , stuck , in the distance .
JIM: I was just getting my car . I could take you . The horn approaches , loud .
JUDY: The kids take me .
JIM: Oh .
JUDY: I 'll bet you 're a real yo yo .
JIM: A what ?
JUDY: Goodbye ! See you !
JIM: I 'm not so bad . JUDY is moving toward the car .
BUZZ: Stella-a-a-a ! JUDY comes to them quickly , smiling .
JUDY: Steady Marlon !
BUZZ: Wan na make the colored lights go around and around ?
JUDY: A new disease .
BUZZ: Friend of yours ?
JUDY: I 'm glad they let you out .
BUZZ: Nobody chickened .
JUDY: I heard about it . You 're lucky he lived .
BUZZ: They always live .
JIM: Where 's University and 10th ?
JUDY: That way !
CHICK: That way !
BUZZ: That way !
JIM: Hican you tell we where I go ? I 'm just starting here .
MONITOR: Mr. Bassett 's office203 . He 'll tell you where your home room is
JIM: Thanks a lot . JIM moves out .
PLATO: Hi .
JIM: Hi there .
PLATO: You remember me ?
JIM: No . I do n't think so
PLATO: I 'm sorryI made a mistake .
LECTURER: The last of us search the heavens and stand amazed . For the stars will still be there , moving through their ancient rhythms .
JIM: Boy !
PLATO: What ?
JIM: Once you been up there , you know you been some place !
BUZZ: I 'm a crab ! She laughs . So do the others .
JIM: Moo ! He waits for approval .
CRUNCH: Yeah , moo .
BUZZ: Moo . That 's real cute . Moo .
GOON: Hey , he 's real rough
CRUNCH: I bet he fights with cows .
BUZZ: Moo .
PLATO: You should n't monkey with him .
JIM: What ?
PLATO: He 's a wheel . So 's she . It 's hard to make friends with them .
JIM: I do n't want to make friends .
PLATO: What does he know about Man alone ?
TEACHER: May I have your attention ? May I please have your attention ? Classes will meet at the busses outside . May I have your attention ? The heck with it . She picks up her coat and bag .
PLATO: Excuse me . Excuse me .
MALE TEACHER: John , where you going ?
PLATO: I forgot something . I 'll get a hitch .
BUZZ: What you looking at ? Med . shot . PLATO wild-eyed with fear .
PLATO: Nothing .
JIM: Jim . What 's yours ?
PLATO: Plato . It 's a nickname .
JIM: I know . That 's why I came back .
PLATO: You scared ?
JIM: I just do n't want trouble .
PLATO: He has a knife .
JIM: I saw it . Gee , look at that thing swing , will you ? Do you think it never stops ?
PLATO: No . It 's perpetual motion .
JIM: Oh , I bet some little guy comes in here at night and pushes it . Go- go-go !
PLATO: Jim ?
JIM: I 'm here .
PLATO: They 're still there !
JIM: No . In the morning .
PLATO: If you do n't want trouble , I know a place we can go JIM looks up at him .
JIM: The shadows are getting long . PLATO turns to look too .
HELEN: Le soleil tombe dans la mer .
JIM: You know something ?
BUZZ: What ?
JIM: You watch too much television .
BUZZ: Hey , he 's real abstract and different .
JIM: I 'm cute , too .
BUZZ: What ?
JIM: Chicken ? The group gives a quick , short laugh .
BUZZ: Who 's fighting ? This is the test , man . It 's a crazy game .
HELEN: Les jeux de courage !
CRUNCH: Machismo . Machismo . Med . shot . Group .
JIM: Machismo ?
BUZZ: Somebody find him a knife .
PLATO: Jim !
BUZZ: You know the action ? No cutting . Just stickingjab real cool .
GOON: Moo !
BUZZ: Come onFascinate us . Impress us . What 's happening ? Let 's go !
JIM: I do n't want trouble .
BUZZ: You crud chicken ! You 're wasting our time !
GUIDE: Mr. Minton ! Mr. Minton ! Trouble !
LECTURER: Oh , I do n't think so . From the school ?
GROUP: Ole ! Ole ! Suddenly , with a cry , PLATO pushes through .
MIL: Buzzy ! Look out ! He 's got a chain !
BUZZ: Hey ! Chicken Little !
JIM: All rightyou want it , you got it !
CRUNCH: Honk . Let 's split .
BUZZ: Split for what ? Couple old poopheads ?
JIM: You satisfied or you want more ?
BUZZ: How 'bout you ? Say the word and you 're cold , Jackyou 're dead .
JUDY: Buzziewe better get out of here .
BUZZ: What 's eating you , Judy ? You want him alive ?
JIM: Where can we meet ?
BUZZ: Know the Millertown bluff ?
COOKIE: The bluff , Buzz ! That 's dangerous up there .
BUZZ: Draw him a picture , Chicken Little . Eight o'clock . Cookie , you call Moose and get a couple cars . We 're going to have us some real kicks . Little chickie-run . You been on chickie-runs before ?
JIM: Surethat 's all I do .
GUIDE: All rightall of youstart moving !
JUDY: You mean l'il ol ' us ? What 's the matter with the nice man ?
GUIDE: Do n't clown with me .
BUZZ: Why'nt you go suck on something sweet ?
GUIDE: You think you 're tough ? I got a son twice your size and I can still handle him .
LECTURER: Do n't lose control , Mr. Jamison . I think if we just explain
GUIDE: Explain to these ? They think they own the world !
CRUNCH: The world is round !
MIL: The world is flat !
COOKIE: All the world 's a stage !
KIDS: The world goes round the sun ! Goodbye proud world ! I got the world on a string ! The world 's my oyster ! Hey ! A fish-eater ! Brain food .
LECTURER: Sometimes the world is too much with us , is n't it , son ? What was the disturbance ?
JIM: Nothing .
LECTURER: You 're bleeding . Are you all right ?
JIM: I scratched my mosquito bites . I 'm fine . LECTURER hesitates .
PLATO: Are you really going to meet them ?
JIM: Who knows . Plato ?
PLATO: What ?
JIM: What 's a chickie-run ?
FATHER: Hiya , Jimbo .
JIM: Yeah !
FATHER: It 's just this get-up . The girl 's out and I was bringing Mom 's supper .
JIM: And you dropped it ?
FATHER: Yeah ! Shh !
JIM: That 's funny !
FATHER: I better clean this up before she sees it .
JIM: Let her see . What could happen . The FATHER continues dabbing .
ANNOUNCER: Time now for the seven o'clock news . Friends , the next time you go shopping .
JUDY'S FATHER: What are you wishing for , Judy ? Med . shot . JUDY . She has n't moved .
JUDY: I was n't wishing . I was looking at the moon .
JUDY'S FATHER: `` Man in the Moon , how came you there Up in the sky where you are shining Floating so high in the frosty air ? Oh , sayMan in the Moon ! ''
JUDY: How did you know that ?
JUDY'S FATHER: We used to sing it in school . Do n't look at me with such horror . They had schools in those days .
JUDY: But the same song . I think it 's fantastic !
JUDY'S FATHER: We were romantic then too
JUDY: Are you and Mom home tonight ?
JUDY'S FATHER: No . Why ?
JUDY: Nothing , only it 'd be nice to spend an evening together for a change .
JUDY'S FATHER: With us old creeps ? Come on , we have to eat .
JUDY: Daddy He looks at her .
JUDY'S FATHER: Hi .
JUDY: Did n't you forget something ?
JUDY'S FATHER: What ?
JUDY: I did n't want to stop .
JUDY'S MOTHER: Did n't want to stop what ?
JUDY'S FATHER: Nothing .
JUDY: I was talking to Dad .
JUDY'S FATHER: I did n't kiss her so it 's a big thing .
JUDY'S MOTHER: Bertha ! You can serve the souffle ! Fish souffle . You do n't have to stand there , darling . Drink your tomato juice .
JUDY: I guess I just do n't understand anything .
JUDY'S FATHER: I 'm tired , Judy . I 'd like to change the subject .
JUDY: Why ?
JUDY'S FATHER: I 'd like to , that 's all . Girls your age do n't do that . You need an explanation ?
JUDY: Girls do n't love their father ? Since when ? Since I got to be sixteen ? She half-rises to kiss him again .
JUDY'S FATHER: Stop it now ! Sit down !
BEAU: Hi . JUDY rises , weeping .
JUDY: May I please be excused ?
JUDY'S FATHER: Hey , hey , Glamorpuss . I 'm sorry .
JUDY'S MOTHER: She 'll outgrow it , dear . It 's just the age .
BEAU: The atomic age ! The door slams .
JUDY'S MOTHER: It 's the age when nothing fits .
FATHER: You awake ?
JIM: Yes .
FATHER: ListenI took a steak out of the freezer . I thought we could have a eal old-fashioned stag partyjust the two of us , what do you say ?
JIM: I 'm not hungry . The FATHER turns away .
FATHER: Shoot , Jimbo .
JIM: Suppose you knew that you had to do something very dangerouswhere you have to prove something you need to knowa question of honor . Would you do it ?
FATHER: Is there some kind of trick answer ?
JIM: What would you do , Dad ?
FATHER: I would n't do anything hasty . Let 's get a little light on the subject .
JIM: Blood .
FATHER: How 'd that happen ! What kind of trouble you in ?
JIM: The kind we 've been talking about . Can you answer me now ?
FATHER: Listennobody should make a snap decisionThis is n't something you justwe ought to consider all the pros and cons
JIM: We do n't have time .
FATHER: We 'll make time . Where 's some paper . We 'll make a list and if we 're still stuck then we ought to get some advice
JIM: What can you do when you have to be a man ?
FATHER: Well , now
JIM: Just give me a direct answer ! You going to stop me from going , Dad ?
FATHER: You know I never stop you from anything . Believe meyou 're at a wonderful age . In ten years you 'll look back on this and wish you were a kid again .
JIM: Ten years ? Now , DadI need an answer now !
FATHER: I just want to show you how foolish you are . When you 're older you 'll laugh at yourself for thinking this is so important
BUZZ: Hey , Chicken-Little . PLATO stops .
PLATO: He 's not scared of you .
BUZZ: Yeah ? Goon ! You seen that adolescent type anywheres ?
COOKIE: He wo n't show .
GOON: Well , you going to wait all night ? I 'm getting nervous , man ! We got to do something !
CRUNCH: Hey , Buzz !
BUZZ: What ?
COOKIE: Over there .
JIM: How 'd you get here ?
PLATO: I hitched .
JIM: Boy , I bet you 'd go to a hanging .
PLATO: My personality 's showing again . Should I leave ?
JIM: No . It 's okay . BUZZ enters .
BUZZ: Come on . Let 's see what we 're driving . JIM gets out ; PLATO starts to follow .
JIM: Stay there .
BUZZ: What you say your name was ?
JIM: Jim Stark .
BUZZ: Buzz Gundersen .
JIM: Hi .
BUZZ: Glad to meet you .
MOOSE: Got some goodies for you , Buzzie-boy .
BUZZ: Flashlight ?
MOOSE: Clean as a whistle . They both got plenty breeze .
BUZZ: Look good to you ?
JIM: Sure . It 's fine .
BUZZ: Okay .
JUDY: Is he your friend ?
PLATO: Yes . My best friend .
JUDY: What 's he like ?
PLATO: Oh , I do n't know . You have to get to know him . He does n't say much ut when he does you know he means it . He 's sincere .
JUDY: Well , that 's the main thingdo n't you think so ?
PLATO: Maybe next summer he 's going to take me hunting with himand fishing . I want him to teach me how and I bet he wo n't get mad if I goof . His name 's Jim . It 's really James but he likes Jim more . People he really likeshe lets call him `` Jamie . ''
JUDY: Want to finish my hamburger ? I only took a bite .
PLATO: Okay .
BUZZ: Better try the doors . Jump out . JIM opens his door .
JIM: Yeah .
BUZZ: I like you , you know ?
JIM: Buzz ? What are we doing this for ?
BUZZ: We got to do something . Do n't we ?
JUDY: Feel okay ?
BUZZ: Give me some dirt .
JUDY: Good luck , Buzz . She starts out , without kissing him again .
JIM: Judy . Med . shot . JIM 's car as JUDY comes to him .
BUZZ: Hit your lights !
CROWD: Oh !
JIM: Where 's Buzz ! Where 's Buzz ! PLATO working his way through the crowd .
PLATO: Jim ! Jim !
CRUNCH: Down there ! Down there is Buzz ! JIM looks over the edge .
PLATO: Come on , Jim ! We got to get out of here !
JUDY: This is fine
JIM: Judy . Will you be okay ?
PLATO: Why do n't you come home with me ? I mean nobody 's home at my houseand I 'm not tired , are you ? I do n't have manypeople I can talk to .
JIM: Who has ?
PLATO: If you want to come we could talk and then in the morning we could have breakfast like my dad used to Geeif you could only have been my fatherwe could
JIM: Heyyou flippedor something ? You better take off
PLATO: O.K . G'night . I got to pick up my scooter . See you tomorrow .
JIM: Yeah .
BEAU: Hello , darling , baby-pie , glamor- puss , sweetie JUDY touches BEAU 's head and tries to smile .
JUDY'S FATHER: Beau ! You belong in bed !
MOTHER: He 's home ! You 're home ! You 're all right ! The camera rights itself suddenly .
JIM: I have to talk to someone , Mom . I have to talk to you both . And Dad this time you got to give me an answer .
FATHER: Go ahead .
JIM: I 'm in terrible trouble.You know that big high bluff near Miller- town Junction ?
FATHER: Surethere was a bad accident there . They showed the pictures on
JIM: I was in it .
MOTHER: How !
JIM: It does n't matter how . I was driving a stolen car
MOTHER: Do you enjoy doing this to me o what
JIM: MomI 'm not
MOTHER: And you wanted him to make a list !
FATHER: Will you let him tell it !
JIM: She never wants to hear . She does n't care !
MOTHER: I guess when I nearly died giving irth to youthat shows how much I do n't care !
FATHER: Just relax , please relax !
JIM: I told you Dad , it was a question of honor . They called me chicken you know , chicken ! I had to go o I would never have been able to face any of those kids again . So I got in one of these cars and a boy called Buzz got in the other . We had to drive fast and jump before the cars went over the edge of the luff . I got out okay but Buzz did n't . He was killed .
MOTHER: Good Lord !
JIM: I ca n't keep it to myself anymore
FATHER: Well , just get it off your chest , son .
JIM: That 's not what I mean . I 've neve done anything right . I 've been going around with my head in a sling for yearsI do n't want to drag you into this but I ca n't help it . I do n't think I can prove anything by going around pretending I 'm tough any more , so maybe you look like one thing but you still feel like another .
FATHER: You 're absolutely right !
JIM: Are you listening to me ? You 're involved in this ! I want to go to the police and tell them I was mixed up in this thing tonight ?
FATHER: You what ?
MOTHER: No !
FATHER: Did anyone see you there ? I mean did they get your license number o anything ?
JIM: I do n't think so
FATHER: Well
MOTHER: What about the other boysDo you think they 'll go to the police ?
JIM: What 's that got to do with it ?
MOTHER: Why should you be the only one .
FATHER: Look Jim . Far be it from me to tell you what to do , but there 's
MOTHER: Are you going to preach now ? Are we going to have a sermon ?
FATHER: I 'm just explaining what you mean ! You ca n't be an idealist all you life ! Nobody thanks you fo sticking your neck out !
MOTHER: That 's right !
JIM: Except yourself !
FATHER: Will you wait a minute ?
JIM: You do n't want me to go .
MOTHER: No ! I do n't want you to go to the police ! There were other people and why should you be the only one involved !
JIM: But I am involved ! We 're all involved , Mom ! A boy was killed ! I do n't see how we can get out of that by pretending it did n't happen !
FATHER: You know you did wrong . That 's the main thing , is n't it ?
JIM: No ! It 's nothing ! Just nothing ! You always told me to tell the truth . You think you can just turn that off ?
MOTHER: He 's not saying that ! He 's saying do n't volunteer !
JIM: Just tell a little white lie ?
FATHER: You 'll learn as you get a little older , Jim .
JIM: I do n't want to learn that !
MOTHER: Well , it does n't matter anyhow ecause we 're moving .
JIM: No ! You 're not tearing me loose any more .
MOTHER: Do I have to spell it out ?
JIM: You 're not going to use me as an excuse again , Mom . Every time you ca n't face yourself you want to move and you say it 's because of me or the neighborhood or some othe phony excuse . Now I want to do one thing right and I 'm not letting you un away . Dad ?
FATHER: Sonthis is all happening so fast
JIM: You better give me something , Dad . You better give me something Mom ?
MOTHER: Jimmy , you 're very youngand a foolish decision now could wreck your whole life .
JIM: Dadanswer herare n't you going to stand up for me ?
MOTHER: Stop it ! You 'll kill him ! Jim ! Do you want to kill your father ?
MOOSE: Let go of me
MOOSE'S FATHER: You want a good crack in the mouth ?
CRUNCH: This place appeal to you or something ?
MOOSE: Nothing , Crunch . They picked him up like the rest of
CRUNCH: You see any cops ?
MOOSE'S FATHER: You monsters start home . We 're going to
MOOSE: Yeah . Yeah .
MOOSE'S FATHER: We 're following you so better get there .
CRUNCH: You see any cops ?
MOOSE: No
CRUNCH: He 's going to cheese , I tell you . Nobody arrested him !
MOOSE: I think I should go home .
CRUNCH: No . We 're going to bring him down .
MOOSE: Crunchmy father'sYou going to kill him ?
CRUNCH: You clean out of your head ? Come on !
SERGEANT: W-O-J-T-what ?
HOODLUM: O-W-I-C-Z . Wojtowicz . What 's the matter , man ? That 's the craziest name in town ! It swings !
JIM: Excuse mebutYou know where I can findI mean I do n't remembe his last name
SERGEANT: Lookca n't you see I 'm writing ?
HOODLUM: Man , this cat never stops . He just keeps going like Big Jay at a session !
OFFICER: Shut up .
HOODLUM: He 's writing a book about me
SERGEANT: What I could write about you they would n't print .
JIM: I think his first name 's RayI have to see him . It 's very important .
SERGEANT: What 's the charge ?
OFFICER: Assault with a deadly weapon .
JIM: Listen
SERGEANT: He 's not here . He 's not at Juvenile Hall . I do n't know where he is . He 's out on a call and he 'll be out all night . How old are you ?
JIM: My parents know I 'm out . They know I 'm here .
SERGEANT: Come back tomorrow .
JIM: I 'll wait for him .
SERGEANT: Why do n't you come back tomorrow , son ? Ever been booked before ?
JUDY'S FATHER: Who wants her ? Who ? Jim who ? Never heard of you .
PLATO: What do you want !
CRUNCH: You know what we want . We want your friend .
GOON: We got eyes for him .
PLATO: Listen , you guys ought to go home . The cops are cruising every
GOON: Where does he live ?
CRUNCH: You better tell us and I 'm not kidding .
PLATO: My old man 's got a gun .
GOON: His old man 's got a gun . What do you think of that ! Your friend talked Now you talk ! Talk !
NEGRO WOMAN: What you doing ! What you doing to him ! You clear out of here 'fore I call the police !
MOOSE: Let 's go , Crunch .
NEGRO WOMAN: Why you like to mix with bad boys like that ? Why you get in trouble all the
PLATO: I have to go out . I have to warn him .
NEGRO WOMAN: You not going anywhere ! You staying home while your mama 's away .
ANNOUNCER: Coming up now another requestthis time from the boys down at Anna 's Pizza ParadiseA new arrangement of a great oldie in rhythm and lues . Jim , this is dedicated to youfrom Buzz . JIM stares at the radio , then turns it off . Another angle .
JUDY: They 'll be looking for you .
JIM: They saw where I jumped ! I did n't chicken ! What do I have to do kill myself ?
JUDY: It does n't matter to them .
JIM: You were looking for me , were n't you ?
JUDY: NoI was justmaybe
JIM: I tried to call you before .
JUDY: I thought so .
JIM: Want some milk ? JUDY comes forward .
JUDY: I 'm numb . She is shuddering a little .
JIM: You cold ?
JUDY: Even if I 'm near a fire , I 'm cold . I guess just about everybody 's cold .
JIM: I swear , sometimes , you just want to hold onto somebody ! Judy , what am I going to do ? I ca n't go home again .
JUDY: Neither can I .
JIM: No ? Why not ? You know something ? Sometimes I figure I 'll never live to see my next birthday . Is n't that dumb ?
JUDY: No .
JIM: Every day I look in the mirror and say , `` What ? You still here ? '' Man ! They laugh a little .
JUDY: I 'm sorry I treated you mean today . You should n't believe what I say when I 'm with the kids . Nobody acts sincere .
JIM: Why 'd you get mixed up with them ? You do n't have to prove anything .
JUDY: If you knew me you would n't say that .
JIM: I do n't think you trust anybody , do you ?
JUDY: Why ?
JIM: I 'm getting that way , too .
JUDY: Have you ever gone with anyone who
JIM: Sure . Lots of times .
JUDY: So have I . But I 've never been in love . Is n't that awful ?
JIM: Awful ? No . It 's just lonely . It 's the loneliest time . She looks up . He kisses her forehead .
JUDY: Why did you do that ?
JIM: I felt like it .
JUDY: Your lips are soft when you kiss . JUDY rises .
JIM: Where you going ?
JUDY: I do n't know , but we ca n't stay here .
JIM: Where can we go ? I ca n't go back into that zoo .
JUDY: I 'm never going back .
JIM: Listen ! I know a place ! PLATO showed me before . An old deserted mansion near the planetarium Would you go with me ? JUDY hesitates .
JUDY: I feel as if I 'm walking under water . They start out .
MOTHER: Frank ? I 'm frightened .
FATHER: What 's that pounding ?
MOTHER: I do n't know . First I thought it was Jim but
FATHER: He 's home . I heard the car .
MOTHER: Are you going down there ?
FATHER: Lookjust relax , will you ? The pounding ceases .
MOTHER: I still think you should go down . He goes out of the bathroom , into the hall .
FATHER: Who 's there ? Anyone there ?
MOTHER: Open it .
FATHER: Who 's out there ?
VOICE: Where 's your son ?
FATHER: What ?
ANOTHER VOICE: Where 's your baby boy gone to , Daddy ? We want him .
FATHER: Look in his room ! The MOTHER disappears .
JUDY'S FATHER: Is anything wrong ? I 'm your neighbor . Med . shot . JIM 'S FATHER . He smiles feebly .
FATHER: Oh , no , thanks . I just wanted to to be sure my garage was closed .
JUDY'S FATHER: Judy ?
FATHER: What are you doing ?
PLATO: Where 's Jim ?
FATHER: I do n't know . Do youdo you know where he is ?
PLATO: No . No , I do n't .
FATHER: Hey , come back here . Who are you ?
PLATO: Jim !
JIM: Who 's that !
PLATO: It 's me !
JIM: How 'd you find me ? What 's happening ?
PLATO: They 're looking for you !
JIM: Yeah ?
PLATO: Everybody ! Crunch and Goon and everybody ! I think they 're going to kill you .
JIM: We know .
PLATO: They think you told the police on them . Theywho 's in there ?
JIM: Judy .
PLATO: Help me in ! JIM gives PLATO a hand over the windowsill .
JIM: Hey where 'd you go ?
PLATO: I 'm here . Shut up .
JIM: Come out come out wherever you are !
PLATO: Shut up . Are you nuts ?
JIM: No . I 'm scared .
PLATO: We 're safe here . I hope . What do you think ?
JIM: Wow ! Well now-there-then !
PLATO: Is n't it crazy ?
JIM: Wowee ow wow ! Let 's take it fo the summer .
JUDY: Oh , Jim !
JIM: Nocome on . Should we rent or are we in a buying mood , dear ?
JUDY: You decide , darling . Remember ou udget .
PLATO: Do n't give it a thought . Only three million dollars a month !
JUDY: Oh , we can manage that ! I 'll scrimp and save and work my fingers to the bone
JIM: Why do n't we just rent it for the season ?
JUDY: You see , we 've justoh , you tell him , darling . I 'm so embarrassed I could die !
JIM: Wellwe 're newlyweds .
JUDY: There 's just one thing . What about
PLATO: Children ? Well , we really do n't encourage them . They 're so noisy and troublesome , do n't you agree ?
JUDY: Yes . And so terribly annoying when they cry . I just do n't know what to do when they cry , do you dear ?
JIM: Of course . Drown them like puppies .
JUDY: See , we 're very modern .
PLATO: Shall I show you the nursery ? It 's far away from the rest of the house . If you have childrenOh I hate the word ! or if you decide to adopt onethey can carry on and you 'll never even notice . In fact , if you lock them in you never have to see them again , much less talk to them .
JUDY: Talk to them ! Heavens !
JIM: Nobody talks to children ! They just tell them one thing and mean another .
PLATO: It 's wonderful that you understand so welland so young too ! You know the most wonderful feature about the nursery ?
JIM: What ?
PLATO: There 's only one key .
JIM: We 'll take it !
PLATO: Come on !
MOOSE: What time is it ?
CRUNCH: Hang loose . We got all night .
MOOSE: That maid saw us . She could identify us too .
CRUNCH: You still want to go home , Moose ?
MOOSE: No .
CRUNCH: Then shut your mouth before you guts run out !
GOON: What guts ?
JIM: Quick ! Fill the pool ! JIM falls in . PLATO rushes to him .
PLATO: Man , you 're schizoid !
JIM: I 'm what ? What ?
JUDY: You ca n't talk underwater !
JIM: I bet you hear everything I say !
PLATO: Is n't he schizoid ?
JIM: Hey ! How 'bout that !
PLATO: Have n't you noticed your personality splitting ?
JIM: Not lately . They all sit on the blanket .
PLATO: I had to go to a head-shrinker . I only went twice though . My mothe said it cost too much , so she went to Hawaii instead .
JIM: No . Seriously . What 's your trouble ?
PLATO: I do n't know but whatever it is , it 's gone now . I mean I 'm happy now . Here . JIM puts his arm under PLATO 's chin .
JIM: When was that ?
PLATO: When I was here ? When I ran away . I used to run away a lot but they always took me back .
JIM: Who ?
PLATO: Mom and Dad . I used to be in my crib and I 'd listen to them fight .
JIM: You remember that far back ? Boy , I ca n't even remember yesterday .
JUDY: Plato , where 's your father now ?
PLATO: He 's dead . He was a hero in the China Sea .
JIM: You told me he 's a big wheel in New York !
PLATO: I did ? Well , he might as well be dead . What 's the difference ?
JUDY: It 's all right .
JIM: Sure .
JUDY: So have you . She kisses it , holds her cheek against it .
JIM: Ever been in a place like this before ?
JUDY: Not exactly . It 's certainly huge .
JIM: How many rooms do you think there are ?
JUDY: I do n't know .
JIM: Should we explore ?
JUDY: Hi .
JIM: Hi .
JUDY: Your hand 's all wet and it 's shaky . You 're so funny .
JIM: Why ?
JUDY: I do n't knowyou just are . Leaving a light for Plato . That was nice .
JIM: Maybe he 's scared of the dark .
JUDY: Are you ?
JIM: Here we are out of cigarettes Junior 's in the nurs'ry See how late it gets
JUDY: You do n't need to do that .
JIM: There 's something I should tell you , Judy .
JUDY: I know already . We do n't have to pretend now .
JIM: What a relief !
JUDY: Is this what it 's like to love somebody ?
JIM: You disappointed ?
JUDY: Funny Jimmy . You 're so clean and youthis is silly .
JIM: What ?
JUDY: You smell like baby powder .
JIM: So do you .
JUDY: I never felt so clean before .
JIM: It 's not going to be lonely , Judy . Not for you and not for me .
JUDY: I love somebody . All the time I 've een looking for someone to love me and nowI love somebody . And it 's so easy . Why is it easy now ?
JIM: It is for me too .
JUDY: I love you , Jim . I really mean it .
JIM: I mean it too . He kisses her again
GOON: What you stopping for ?
CRUNCH: You scam a car up there ?
MOTHER: So what ?
CRUNCH: Nobody 's lived in that hunk of junk for five-six years .
OFFICER: This is Unit 17 . Unit 17 .
RADIO: Come in , Unit 17 .
OFFICER: We just zeroed three kids in a heap . Crest Drive and Observatory . Looks like house-breaking . Send us some help . They may be armed . Over .
CRUNCH: Good morning .
PLATO: Save me !
JIM: Plato ! There is a rush of boys coming forward .
PLATO: I do n't want you for my father !
JIM: Your father !
PLATO: Get away from me !
JUDY: Jim !
OFFICER: Halt ! PLATO stops , confused .
JIM: Plato !
PLATO: No !
JIM: Plato !
JUDY: Jim ! Watch out !
FIRST OFFICER: Take the house ! I 'll head him off .
RADIO: located at Summit Drivethe Planetarium .
RAY: The planetarium ? One kid inside five housebreaking in area . Will proceed . There are some kids in trouble you 'll have to go with me .
FATHER: Perfectly all right .
JIM: Plato !
JUDY: Did he hit you ? She is on the verge of hysteria .
JIM: No !
JUDY: We have to go back !
JIM: No ! I got to find him . He starts to rise .
JUDY: After he tried to shoot you ?
JIM: He did n't mean itwe should n't have left him . He needed us .
JUDY: He needed you , maybe . So do I .
JIM: He needs you too . Come on .
JUDY: You should have heard him talk about you tonight . Like you were the hero in the China Seas .
JIM: Sure . He was trying to make us his family .
JUDY: They 're killing him !
OFFICER: You 're making it tough on yourself , kid . Come out quietly now . You did n't kill anybody yet .
CHIEF: We heard firing . He get anybody ? You alone ?
OFFICER: We got a cookaboo inside . He wounded some kid earlier .
CHIEF: How 'd he get in ?
OFFICER: Smashed the front door .
CHIEF: Any other entrance ?
OFFICER: Down in back .
CHIEF: Silence . Please maintain silence . Keep back and stay off the pavements . Keep back and stay off the pavements . There will be emergency vehicles coming through . This warning is for your own protection .
NEGRO WOMAN: What 's going on ?
OFFICER: I do n't know , lady . Some kid 's in trouble . Stand back , please .
NEGRO WOMAN: I got to know . My boy run off tonight . He had a gun with him , too . Med . shot . CHIEF 's car as RAY hurries in .
CHIEF: Hello , RayKnow anything about this ?
RAY: As much as you doLoan me you mike , will you ?
CHIEF: Help yourself .
RAY: I am addressing the boy in the planetarium . I am speaking to the oy inside . This is Ray Framek from the Juvenile Division
MOTHER: Frank !
FATHER: Stay here . That was my son !
RAY: You sure ?
FATHER: I think I know my son .
CHIEF: Officers ! Another boy and girl just ran into the planetarium . We do not know if they are armed . Hold your positions until furthe instruction .
JIM: Plato ?
PLATO: I 'm here .
JIM: Boy , I 'm blind as a bat ! You got a match ? I 'm going to break my neck in here . Where are you ?
PLATO: I 've got a gun .
JIM: I know . Light a match , will you ? PLATO obeys .
PLATO: I 'm fine .
JIM: No . At dawn .
PLATO: Why ?
JIM: I just have a feeling . Where are you ?
PLATO: Here .
JIM: Well , stop hiding and stand up . I ca n't talk to you if I do n't see you . JIM waits . Nothing happens .
PLATO: Why did you run out on me ?
JIM: We did n't run out . We were coming ight back .
PLATO: You sure ?
JIM: Sure I 'm sure . Judy 's waiting . You ready to come out now ? A siren is heard .
PLATO: No .
JIM: I promise nothing 'll happen if you do . You want my jacket ? It 's warm .
PLATO: Can I keep it ?
JIM: What do you think ? JIM gives him the jacketPLATO puts it on .
PLATO: My gun ?
JIM: In your pocket . Give it to me .
PLATO: I need it .
JIM: You trust me , do n't you ? Just give it to me for a second .
PLATO: You promised to give it back .
JIM: Friends never break promises , do they ? Okay . Here . Now listen . There are a lot of people outside and they all want you to be safe . You understand that ? They said I could come in and bring you out .
PLATO: Why ?
JIM: They like you . Okay ?
PLATO: Come on !
JUDY: Hi , Plato !
PLATO: Hi .
JIM: Just a guard .
PLATO: I shot at one of them .
JIM: But you did n't hurt anybody .
PLATO: Those are n't my friends . Make them go away .
JIM: Ray ! Will you tell these guys to move back ? Suddenly PLATO bolts . JIM wheels after him .
MOTHER: It 's Jim !
JIM: Plato !
PLATO: Keep away from me ! I do n't believe you anymore !
JIM: But I 've got the bullets ! The gun was empty !
FATHER: Let him alone ! He 's mine ! I 'll take care of him !
RAY: It 's all right ! It 's all right !
FATHER: For a minutethat jacketI thought You could n't help it , son . You did everything a man could do .
JIM: He depended on me .
FATHER: And you can depend on me , son . Trust me . Whatever comes we 'll face it together , I swear .
NEGRO WOMAN: This poor baby got nobody . Just nobody . As he is carried past her , she follows .
JIM: He was always cold .
RED PLANET: < LINK rel= '' stylesheet '' type= '' text/css ''
TEENAGE BOY: Did you hear that ?
FAT KNIGHT: Hear what ?
TEENAGE BOY: The innkeeper told me
FAT KNIGHT: I know what he told you . He told you about the Wolf . The Beast of Villiers la Croise . The people of that village have een spreading that nonsense since efore you were a tickle in you daddy 's prick . I 'd give you a whipping for believing it if I thought it would do any good .
OLD KNIGHT: I used to travel these woods . They told the same stories then that they do now . Only I heard them from a man who actually saw the beast with his own eyes .
FAT KNIGHT: Half the people in these parts claim to have seen it .
OLD KNIGHT: This man claimed it was the last thing he ever saw . The Wolf took his eyes . And half his face . I saw his scars and empty eye sockets . His skin looked like it was on inside-out . It did n't seem to me like the kind of thing a man would make up a story about .
FAT KNIGHT: What the devil are you ? !
TEENAGE BOY: Wait , wait ! Be quiet !
LUCIE: Honestly , Isabelle . Just kill it .
ISABELLE: I ca n't . It 's the fifth commandment . Thou shalt not kill .
SUZETTE: All right . Do n't be long .
CARPENTER: Hey , there ! Let one of these young lads get that for you .
ISABELLE: I can do it myself . The Carpenter smiles . Of course she can .
CESAIRE: That was very thoughtful of her .
PETER: I 'm taking a break .
WOODCUTTER BOSS: A break ? Does that mean you 're going to start working ?
PETER: I was afraid you were n't coming .
ISABELLE: You should know better than that .
ISABELLE: I think my sister 's starting to suspect something .
PETER: Do you think she 'll tell you father ?
ISABELLE: I do n't care . I wish she would tell him . I want everyone to know . Besides , my father likes you .
PETER: Of course he does . Right up until the point where he figures out what I 'm doing with his daughter .
ISABELLE: What 's going on ?
PETER: You have n't heard ? Three men . They found them this morning just off the Center Road . At least they think it was three men . There was n't enough left to piece them back together . A long beat as Isabelle takes this in . Then
ISABELLE: Was it the Wolf ?
PETER: Could it have been anything else ? Isabelle shudders . No , it could n't have been .
ISABELLE: I know . You say that every month .
ISABELLE: I 'd better go .
PETER: Same time tomorrow ?
ISABELLE: Do n't get used to this . I start my sewing lessons next week .
PETER: You really think you can go all day without seeing me ?
ISABELLE: I 'll manage somehow . Pride is a cardinal sin , by the way .
PETER: I can think of worse sins I could e committing .
HERALD: Half full ! Half full !
SUZETTE: You mind your grandmother , understand ? You 're her student now , the same as the other girls .
ISABELLE: Yes , Mother .
SUZETTE: My last baby has grown up .
LUCRECE: You 're only encouraging him .
ISABELLE: I know .
ROXANNE: Are n't you excited ?
PRUDENCE: It 's too early to be excited .
ROXANNE: I 'm just trying to look on the ight side .
ROSEMARIA: Well , stop it before somebody hurts you . The girls have a laugh at Roxanne 's expense .
PRUDENCE: Did you hear about her and the Darley brothers ?
ISABELLE: Oh , no ! Which one ?
PRUDENCE: Both ! On the same night !
ROSEMARIA: Why does your grandmother have to live so far away ?
ISABELLE: What 's the matter , Rosemaria ? Having trouble walking ?
GRANDMOTHER: Well , stop dawdling . Come on , come on .
ISABELLE: Yes , ma'am .
GRANDMOTHER: Well , then your mother does n't know me very well , does she ?
ROXANNE: I do n't know .
GRANDMOTHER: Why not ?
ROXANNE: Well you have n't told us what you 're making .
GRANDMOTHER: There 's something else I have n't told you . I have n't told you why I 'm making it . Before you begin any task , you must first always ask yourself why .
ROSEMARIA: Why ?
GRANDMOTHER: Because understanding why you are doing something is the key to doing it successfully . So , before we begin today , let 's be certain that we have a good foundation . Who can tell me why you are here ?
PRUDENCE: To become seamstresses . To learn how to sew and mend clothes .
GRANDMOTHER: That 's what you are doing . But why are you doing it ?
ISABELLE: She works with the women .
GRANDMOTHER: Why do n't you work with them ?
ISABELLE: I do n't know how to yet .
GRANDMOTHER: And how does that make you feel ?
ISABELLE: Like a child .
GRANDMOTHER: You will be coming here every day for the next three months . During that time , I will teach you everything you need to know to be productive members of ou community . But there is something far more important that will also e happening here .
PETER: I need to talk to you .
ISABELLE: What about ?
PETER: When were you planning on telling me ?
ISABELLE: Telling you what ?
PETER: That you 're engaged to be married to Henri Smith . Isabelle gapes at him , stunned and confused .
ISABELLE: Henri Smith ? Is this a joke ?
PETER: Look at me . Just look at me and tell me you did n't know .
ISABELLE: Who told you this ?
PETER: Your father . Off Isabelle 's look
SUZETTE: It 's all been arranged . You marriage to Henri will settle ou debt to his father .
ISABELLE: So Henri Smith is in the family 's interest and Peter is not ?
CESAIRE: Peter is a fine young man .
ISABELLE: But what ? He 's poor ? He 's an orphan ?
SUZETTE: He 's not one of us . His parents were outsiders .
ISABELLE: Why ? Because they had n't lived here since Noah built the ark ?
SUZETTE: You mind your tongue .
LUCIE: Do you realize how this makes me look ? I 'm older than her by more than a year . If anyone should be getting married in the spring , it 's me .
CESAIRE: This was your idea . Now I have oth of them hating me .
SUZETTE: We knew Isabelle was going to be stubborn . It would n't be like he to simply do as she 's told . She 's too much like her grandmother .
CESAIRE: That she is . What about Lucie ?
SUZETTE: She 's a good girl , but she 's still a child . Talk to her . You 're he father . She 'll listen to you .
HENRI: Hello , Isabelle .
ISABELLE: Hello , Henri .
HENRI: So I suppose you 've heard .
ISABELLE: Yes . My parents are very pleased .
HENRI: And you ? Are you pleased ?
ISABELLE: It 's a very generous arrangement .
HENRI: Do you have any other feelings about it ? About me ?
ISABELLE: I 'm not sure . We 've never really talked that much .
HENRI: I know . That 's why I asked you to walk with me . I wanted to talk .
ISABELLE: What for ?
HENRI: Well because we 're going to be husband and wife soon .
ISABELLE: Not until the spring festival . That 's months away . A lot can happen in a few months .
HENRI: I 'm not really sure . I brought you this .
ISABELLE: Well , I 'm glad we had this conversation .
SUZETTE: You know , I had a sweetheart when I was your age , too .
ISABELLE: What happened ?
SUZETTE: Nothing happened . My parents arranged for me to marry you father and that was the end of that .
ISABELLE: Did n't you want to marry you sweetheart ?
SUZETTE: Of course , I did . But there 's more to marriage than being in love . Love does n't always last and it certainly does n't fill you children 's bellies in the winter .
ISABELLE: You 've never wished you could have married that other boy ?
SUZETTE: Not even once . Isabelle eyes her , still uncertain .
PETER: We need to talk .
ISABELLE: I do n't care what my parents want . They do n't own me . I love you .
PETER: That does n't matter .
ISABELLE: It does to me . Does n't it matte to you ?
PETER: It 's not our decision to make .
ISABELLE: You sound like my mother .
PETER: Then maybe you should start listening to your mother . It 's over . They had to find out eventually . Do n't turn this into something that it 's not . We had our fun , but that 's all it eve was .
ISABELLE: I do n't believe you .
PETER: Go home , Isabelle . Go home and grow up . Isabelle gapes at him . Peter walks away .
ISABELLE: I do n't believe you !
HERALD: Full moon ! Full moon ! Full moon !
CESAIRE: This does n't concern you , Isabelle .
ISABELLE: Yes , Father .
ROXANNE: What 's wrong with Lucie ?
ROSEMARIA: How would you feel if you were in love with your sister 's fiance ?
ISABELLE: Lucie is not in love with my fiance .
ROSEMARIA: Really ? So she 's just had a crush on him since she was ten ?
ISABELLE: As if she would really tell you something like that .
ROSEMARIA: She did n't . She told my sister . Did you honestly not know ?
ISABELLE: Come on . We 're going to be late .
ROXANNE: Rosemaria ?
ISABELLE: What are you doing ?
ROSEMARIA: What does it look like ?
ISABELLE: You ca n't go that way . You have to stay on the path .
ROSEMARIA: This way is faster .
PRUDENCE: But it 's not safe . My brothe says the bridge is rotten .
ROSEMARIA: I do n't care . It 's bad enough working all day in that smelly cottage . It 's not reasonable fo them to expect us to walk that fa every day on top of that .
PRUDENCE: If you get lost , nobody will come looking for you . Not tonight .
GRANDMOTHER: Everyone finish what you 're working on . Your parents will be worried if you 're not home before it starts to get dark .
PRUDENCE: I wish someone would just kill that stupid wolf .
ROXANNE: You ca n't just kill it . It 's not an ordinary wolf . It 's a devil- wolf . A servant of Satan himself . Prudence rolls her eyes . Whatever .
ROSEMARIA: Who cares what it is ? It 's only one night a month . You stay inside , lock up the animals , and you do n't go into the forest . It 's never killed anyone from the village and as long as we leave it alone , it never will .
GRANDMOTHER: My goodness . I had no idea ou young people were so woefully uneducated these days . Our village was not always like this . When I was young , this was a very special place . Traders and merchants came here from lands I 'd never heard of selling things I had never seen . King Philip the Bold even visited here once . But that , of course , was before the Wolf came . The girls listen attentively .
ISABELLE: People still die .
ROSEMARIA: Yes , but nobody we know .
GRANDMOTHER: Everyone knows what should be done . But it 's not always easy to do what you know is right . Sometimes it 's easier to settle for being safe . Isabelle frowns , unsatisfied .
ISABELLE: You were right . About Peter . I was being childish .
BEAT: But I 'm not going to marry Henri .
SUZETTE: You 'll do as you 're told . It 's all been arranged .
ISABELLE: The family gains the same no matter which one of us marries him . And I do n't love Henri . Lucie does .
LUCIE: Shut up .
ISABELLE: I 'm sorry I
LUCIE: Please . Just shut up and mind your own business .
BOY: I 'm the Wolf ! I 'm going to eat you up !
GRANDMOTHER: What on earth ?
ISABELLE: I think I 'd like that .
MERCHANT: She had it coming , if you ask me . What the hell was she doing out there ?
ISABELLE: What is it ?
GRANDMOTHER: Nothing .
FATHER AUGUSTE: Wherefore each man and woman that is wise , make him ready thereto ; for we all shall die , and we know not how soon
MARGUERITE: Take your brother home .
ADRIEN: She was a good girl . We all loved her .
HENRI: I 'm here for you , too .
CESAIRE: A line has been crossed . The east must be destroyed !
MERCHANT: Your daughter crossed the line . She went into the woods .
CESAIRE: She was taken . She must have een !
MERCHANT: So the Wolf broke into your home and stole your daughter without waking anyone or leaving any sign at all ?
REEVE: It 's been almost thirty years since someone here was killed by the Wolf . We 've left it alone . Why would it suddenly come and take one of us now ? Grandmother gathers her nerve and stands up .
GRANDMOTHER: I know something .
ATTEWATER: This is not animal hair .
GRANDMOTHER: No , it is n't . It 's human . A stunned silence comes over the room .
ATTEWATER: No man could have done the things that were done to you granddaughter . It must have been the Wolf .
GRANDMOTHER: Yet she was holding a man 's hai in her hand when she died .
ATTEWATER: What are you suggesting ?
GRANDMOTHER: That the man and the Wolf may be one and the same . A low MURMUR works its way through the crowd .
ATTEWATER: A werewolf .
FATHER AUGUSTE: It would explain much . The Pope himself has declared that such creatures exist . The thought gives everyone pause .
MERCHANT: Even if you 're right , it does n't help us . The woods are filled with hermits and strangers . If there 's a werewolf among them , how will we find it ?
ATTEWATER: There are experts in these matters . Men who find and try witches and werewolves . We could equest the Church to send someone . Grandmother gives him a sharp look .
GRANDMOTHER: Not someone . You 're talking about Father Solomon .
ATTEWATER: He is the Church 's most successful werewolf hunter .
ADRIEN: But what of his methods ? The man once burned down an entire village just to root out one witch .
ATTEWATER: Unsubstantiated rumors . The Church has appointed him the Witchfinder General of all Christendom .
FATHER AUGUSTE: That is also unsubstantiated .
ATTEWATER: I have the utmost confidence in the ability of the Witchfinde General to determine the nature of the beast and put an end to it . I will dispatch a messenger in the morning .
CESAIRE: Even if Father Solomon agrees to help us , it will take weeks fo him to get here . That means another full moon . Maybe two . We must defend ourselves . A long , silent beat . Then , Henri stands .
HENRI: He 's right . The beast broke the peace , not us .
TO CESAIRE: I will help you kill it .
REEVE: As will I . We all will .
SUZETTE: Who gave you permission to wea that ?
ISABELLE: Nobody . I just
SUZETTE: Your Grandmother made that fo Lucie . Take it off .
ISABELLE: It was folded when they found her . Her clothes , too . Did you notice that ?
SUZETTE: Someone must have folded them .
ISABELLE: She was so unhappy .
SUZETTE: What are you saying ?
ISABELLE: Maybe she went into the woods on purpose . Maybe she wanted to die .
SUZETTE: Lucie 's soul is at peace with God . Do n't you ever again suggest otherwise .
PETER: Are you all right ?
ISABELLE: I 'm sorry . I just need to talk to someone . Can I come in ?
ROSEMARIA: No . You ca n't .
ISABELLE: I hate the cold . Why ca n't we have lessons in the summer ?
GRANDMOTHER: I suppose that would be easier . But then that would defeat the purpose . People only change when things are difficult .
MARGUERITE: I caught the little bastard watching us !
ROXANNE: Watching what ?
MARGUERITE: It 's money , is n't it ? You could make twice this your first time . They pay more for virgins .
ADRIEN: Do n't do this for Isabelle . She ca n't marry you if you 're dead .
LYING: I 'm not doing it for her .
ADRIEN: Your mother would be proud to see the man you 've become . Henri is moved . He nods , at a loss for words .
CESAIRE: My father died trying to kill the Wolf . For forty years , we have lived in fear of it . But no more . And never again . We do n't need a Witchfinder General to rid of us this hell-hated beast . Because by God and all that is holy , the Beast of Villiers la Croise shall die tonight ! The men CHEER .
HENRI: You 're not coming with us ?
PETER: Are you joking ? These fools are as likely to kill each other as they are anything else .
CESAIRE: Get that torch out . Henri douses his torch .
REEVE: Who was that screaming ?
CARPENTER: I do n't know .
MERCHANT: Look .
REEVE: Which way did it go ?
CARPENTER: The caves . It 's in the caves .
REEVE: Split up . Two groups .
ISABELLE: I heard your father wounded the east . He was a brave man .
HENRI: Did you hear what it did to him ? It chewed off his private parts .
LUCRECE: I thought your mother would be here . They used to be quite close .
ISABELLE: You told me you had a sweetheart efore you were married . It was Henri 's father , was n't it ?
ISABELLE: Lucie was in love with Henri . She could have married him . Could n't she have ?
SUZETTE: We arranged for you to marry him .
ISABELLE: But you gained the same no matte which one of us married him . So why did it have to be me ?
SUZETTE: I think you know the answer to that question .
ISABELLE: No . You say it . Suzette 's eyes well up . Then
SUZETTE: Lucie was Henri 's half-sister . She was not your father 's daughter .
ISABELLE: Am I ? Do you even know ?
SUZETTE: Yes . I was already pregnant when your father and I married .
ISABELLE: Does he know ?
SUZETTE: No . And he must never know .
BEAT: Promise me you wo n't tell him .
GRANDMOTHER: I 've found that there 's no burden that does n't at least seem a little lighter on a full stomach .
ISABELLE: I do n't know what to do . She wants me to pretend like I do n't know . How am I supposed to go on living in that house ?
GRANDMOTHER: You have a right to be angry with her . But try not to hate her . Too much hate will eat you alive .
CESAIRE: You 're a good girl .
PRUDENCE: I heard there 's going to be a festival on the night of the next full moon . To celebrate .
ROXANNE: A festival ? I 've never been to one !
PRUDENCE: My father says he has n't seen one since he was a boy .
ROXANNE: It 's strange , is n't it ? You think ecause things have been a certain way your whole life that they 'll always be the same . Then overnight everything just changes .
CAPTAIN: This is Villiers la Croise ?
MERCHANT: Yes , my lord .
CAPTAIN: Summon your bailiff . My maste would speak with him at once .
MERCHANT: Of course , my lord . May I ask to what does he owe this honor ?
CAPTAIN: He requested the services of His Eminence , the Witchfinder General . You may tell him that he has arrived .
ATTEWATER: This is indeed an honor , You Eminence .
SOLOMON: That is no werewolf .
REEVE: And I suppose you 've seen this ? A wolf turning into a man ?
SOLOMON: My wife 's name was Pnlope . She was very pretty . And we were very happy .
BEAT: When I returned home in the morning , I found my wife with a loody rag tied around her left wrist . And when I opened my sack , the werewolf 's paw was gone . This is what I found in its place .
SOLOMON: Her name was Pnlope . She was very pretty . And we were very happy . Until the day I killed her .
CESAIRE: But he did scream . We all heard him .
SOLOMON: Only when it wanted you to . It used him as bait to lure you into the bit of theater it had prepared .
HENRI: Theater ? My father is not playacting . He is dead .
REEVE: And I killed the beast that did it .
SOLOMON: That 's what it wants you to think . It did kill your blacksmith . But the animal that you killed was not the werewolf .
REEVE: There was blood dripping from its teeth .
SOLOMON: The blood was its own . The werewolf most likely wounded it earlier in the evening and left it in the cave for you to find and kill .
CESAIRE: 'Most likely , ' he says . Have you ever heard anything more unlikely in your lives ?
ATTEWATER: Your Eminence , if what you say is true , that we were somehow fooled y this thing , it could not have done so without foreknowledge of our plan to hunt it .
SOLOMON: That 's correct . The werewolf does not live in the forest as you have ather navely assumed . It lives here in the village . Among you .
CESAIRE: You come here and tell us that this boy 's father died fo nothing . You accuse us and call us fools . Well , I believe what I can see with my own eyes . That wolf is dead . And I know it 's dead because I was with the brave men who killed it .
MERCHANT: And what of the festival ?
ATTEWATER: The festival was to celebrate the death of the Wolf .
MERCHANT: And we say that it 's dead ! We 've spent every full moon for the past forty years cowering in our homes . We 've earned a celebration .
REEVE: And paid for it in blood !
SOLOMON: Have your festival . I will stay on here until then to ensure that you have the celebration you all so richly deserve .
ISABELLE: I 'm going to the festival .
SUZETTE: All right then .
ROXANNE: I 'm sorry
PRUDENCE: She acts more like a mother to him than a sister .
ISABELLE: Someone has to look after him .
PRUDENCE: I know . But who looks after her ? Isabelle gives Roxanne a sad look .
PETER: Take it easy , friend .
HENRI: You did n't come with us . The night my father died .
ISABELLE: Please , do n't do this
ISABELLE: Peter ! Wait !
PETER: Why ? So you can hit me , too ?
ISABELLE: I just want to make sure you 're all right .
PETER: Why ca n't you just leave me alone ?
ISABELLE: You 're bleeding .
PETER: So what ? What 's the matter with you ? What do I have to do to make you stop caring about me ? Isabelle is taken aback . A beat .
ISABELLE: You think I want to feel like this ? You think I enjoy feeling like a fool every day because I ca n't stop loving you ?
PETER: I do n't have to like her to get what I want from her .
ISABELLE: You 're a terrible liar .
PETER: I thought being with Rosemaria would be the one thing you would never be able to forgive . I wanted you to hate me . Isabelle , you are the best thing that could ever happen to me . And I am the worst thing that could ever happen to you .
ISABELLE: How could you think that ?
PETER: I was n't born here . You and I oth know what that means . I will always be a stranger to these people . Your parents will neve let us be together .
ISABELLE: That means less to me now than ever . We can leave here . We can go someplace where we 'll both be strangers .
PETER: I ca n't let you do that . You have something here that I will neve have . You have a place . You have
ISABELLE: The only life I want is with you .
PETER: Isabelle I 'm wrong for you .
ISABELLE: I know you are . I just do n't care .
PETER: But not like this .
A BEAT: I want to marry you .
PETER: I can pack the cart tonight and we can leave in the morning . Is that too soon ?
ISABELLE: It 's not soon enough . She pulls him to her and kisses him .
PETER: You 'd better get back before someone misses you .
ISABELLE: This feels like a dream . I 'm afraid if I leave you I might wake up .
ROXANNE: Claude !
SOLOMON: Get to the church , you fools !
ROXANNE: Where 's Claude ? Where is he ? !
SOLDIER #1: Help Help me
ROXANNE: Claude ! Where are you ? !
ISABELLE: You have to stop it . He ca n't hear you and you are going to get us killed . Do you understand me ?
THE WOLF: Well , well . You look very pretty this evening , my dear . Good enough to eat .
ISABELLE: How do you know me ? Who are you ?
ROXANNE: Isabelle ?
ISABELLE: What big eyes you have
THE WOLF: The better to see you with , my dear .
ISABELLE: Are you going to kill us ?
THE WOLF: Kill you ? Why would I kill you ?
ISABELLE: Then what do you want ?
THE WOLF: I want you , Isabelle . Isabelle gapes , dumbstruck and dismayed .
ISABELLE: I do n't know who you are , but we are not the same . I would rathe die than go with you .
THE WOLF: What about your fat friend here ? Do you think she would rather die ? Come away with me . Or I will kill her . And I will keep killing until you agree to leave with me .
SOLOMON: We are safe here . God protects his own house and those within it . Isabelle finds Prudence .
ISABELLE: Is Peter here ?
PRUDENCE: Peter ? I do n't think so .
ISABELLE: What about Claude ? Or my parents ?
PRUDENCE: I have n't seen any of them .
ISABELLE: Would you look for them ? Please ?
ROXANNE: You talked to it .
ISABELLE: It talked to us .
ROXANNE: No . It only growled . You heard it talk to you ?
ISABELLE: Do not speak of this to anyone .
CESAIRE: No , thank God .
FATHER AUGUSTE: This man is alive !
TO HENRI: Bring me water ! Hurry !
SOLOMON: Are you bitten ?
BEAT: But to kill a monster , you must ecome one yourself . A wolf caught in a trap will chew off its own leg to save itself . Will you do the same ? What sacrifice will you make to save your families and your way of life ? Will you do whatever it takes ? Or will you
SOLOMON: It appears my expertise is not as appreciated as I was led to elieve .
ATTEWATER: Wait !
PETER: I was up all night worrying about you . Thank God you 're safe .
ISABELLE: Peter My mother 's hurt . I ca n't leave . Not now .
PETER: I thought you did n't want to wait .
ISABELLE: I do n't have any choice . It 's not just my mother . Something else happened last night .
ISABELLE: I meant everything I said . This is n't what I wanted .
PETER: Of course not . You 'd better go home and see to your mother .
SOLOMON: Silver . This is our most potent weapon . One blow will kill it .
BEAT: That sword has tasted the blood of many such creatures . But neve one as powerful as this .
ATTEWATER: If it 's that powerful , how can we possibly hope to stop it ?
SOLOMON: We must find it in its human form . Who among you do you suspect ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: What about the hair Madame Ordeville found on Lucie 's body ? It was dark . The person we are looking for must have dark hair .
SOLOMON: Perhaps . Unless it planted the hair to make us think that .
ATTEWATER: Yes , it 's trying to trick us again . This has been happening for forty years . It must be an old man by now . The hair should have been gray .
SOLOMON: Not necessarily . It may be the child or grandchild of the werewolf that first struck here .
FATHER AUGUSTE: The curse is hereditary ?
SOLOMON: It is . But it effects men and women differently . A man can inherit the curse . Or he can be turned simply by being bitten .
ATTEWATER: But it could be a woman .
SOLOMON: Of course . It could be any one of you .
ISABELLE: Has Claude come home ?
ROXANNE: No . Nobody has seen him .
ISABELLE: He 's run away before . He 'll be all right .
PRUDENCE: Well . I suppose this is all of us .
GRANDMOTHER: It talked to you . And you understood it ?
ISABELLE: As clearly as I do you now .
GRANDMOTHER: Word of this can not be allowed to spread . Do you understand me ?
ISABELLE: Roxanne will never speak of it . She wo n't even talk to me about it .
GRANDMOTHER: I do n't know . But I wo n't allow you to go with this devil and live as its concubine .
ISABELLE: But if it comes back for me and I do n't go with it , then it will kill again . If I have the powe to save even one life , are n't I compelled to do so ?
GRANDMOTHER: This is why it chose you . You 're a good girl with a gentle heart . It 's using that against you .
ISABELLE: But how could it ? Unless it eally does know me ?
HENRI: I spoke with your father . I broke off our engagement . I saw you with Peter . Do n't worry , I did n't tell anyone .
ISABELLE: What about my family 's debt ?
HENRI: I have no interest in ruining you family . I will have you out of love or not at all .
PRUDENCE: They 've caught the werewolf !
ISABELLE: But who is it ?
CESAIRE: Isabelle ! Get away from there !
ROXANNE: Claude ! !
ISABELLE: It 's not him ! It ca n't be !
LUCRECE: If he 's not the werewolf , then why was he hiding ? What 's he afraid of ?
GRANDMOTHER: The good of the people is the chief law .
ATTEWATER: You read Latin .
GRANDMOTHER: And write . I was studying to be a nun when I met my husband .
ATTEWATER: He must have been some man .
GRANDMOTHER: He was a priest .
ATTEWATER: Father Solomon is here to protect us .
GRANDMOTHER: A wolf hunting sheep picks off the weakest ones first . This is just the beginning .
SOLOMON: You say you saw the accused perform magic ?
LUCRECE: In broad daylight with my own eyes . Everyone here has seen it .
SOLOMON: So it was common knowledge that the accused was a conjurer ?
LUCRECE: Yes , Your Eminence . I saw it fo the Devil 's work , but they laughed at me and paid him money .
SOLOMON: Are you aware that it is the custom of witches and devil worshippers to hold their black sabbaths in cemeteries ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: Yes , Your Eminence .
SOLOMON: And do you know of their practice of dancing with invisible devils during these rituals ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: I have heard it said so , yes .
SOLOMON: Is there one here today who you have seen dancing in you cemetery ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: Yes . But I do n't believe he meant anything by it . It was in jest .
SOLOMON: So you consider the black mass to e a jest ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: No , of course not .
SOLOMON: Then point him out . Father Auguste reluctantly points to Claude .
SOLOMON: What is your relationship to the accused ?
MARGUERITE: I am his mother .
SOLOMON: And where is his father ?
MARGUERITE: I do n't know , sir .
SOLOMON: Well , what is his name ?
MARGUERITE: I never learned his name , sir .
SOLOMON: You say a man whose name you can not recall is the father of your child ? What can you tell us about him ?
MARGUERITE: Not much , sir .
SOLOMON: Almost as if it were a dream ? Certain devils called incubi can collect human semen and then transfer it to women as they sleep . A woman who unwittingly conceives in this manner would not e a whore . She would be lameless in the eyes of God .
SOLOMON: You remember almost nothing of the man who impregnated you . Is it not possible that there was no man ? That the accused is not the product of your own sin , but the foul offspring of a werewolf whose semen was placed in you by an incubus while you slept ?
MARGUERITE: Yes ! Yes , I remember now ! He came to me in my sleep ! It was n't my fault ! God save me , it was n't my fault ! Roxanne buries her face in her hands .
SOLOMON: We have proven here today that ehind this veil of feigned idiocy is the fiend that has plagued you village . However , in order fo the sentence of death to be carried out , the Church requires either a confession or the testimony of a witness who has seen the accused in his transformed state . Since the accused has refused to confess , this court calls upon its final witness . Isabelle Ordeville .
SOLOMON: Look into his eyes , my child . Do you see the beast in them ?
ISABELLE: It is n't him . It ca n't be . He was with us when the Wolf attacked .
SOLOMON: Is this true ? Is there anothe here who can speak to this ?
ROXANNE: I can ! It 's true ! I saw him !
LUCRECE: She 's his sister ! She 'll say anything !
ISABELLE: He was there ! He carried Claude away ! He saved his life !
CARPENTER: She is mistaken . I did no such thing .
SOLOMON: Very well . Since no one here can ear witness , we must extort a confession . This court shall econvene tomorrow at dawn .
ISABELLE: Why would n't Father Solomon listen to me ? Does n't he care that Claude is n't guilty ?
GRANDMOTHER: He 'd rather let an innocent boy die than risk letting the Wolf go free .
ISABELLE: But the Wolf is free . And the moon will be full in two days .
GRANDMOTHER: We both know it will be coming fo you . You must leave here tomorrow and never return .
ISABELLE: I can not leave .
GRANDMOTHER: You have no choice . The alternative is unthinkable .
ISABELLE: What is unthinkable is that I should be responsible for the deaths of everyone that I love . I 'd rather spend a lifetime of misery than let that happen .
GRANDMOTHER: The Wolf 's sins are on its own twice-damned soul , not yours .
ISABELLE: But what if it was you it wanted ? Would you go with it to save me ? Or would you leave me to die ?
GRANDMOTHER: Father Solomon . Extorting his confession .
CESAIRE: You should have condemned him today . At least it would have een quick .
ROXANNE: How can you just sit there and listen to this ?
MARGUERITE: Where are you going with that ?
ROXANNE: Do n't you touch me again . Ever .
SOLOMON: Enough of this . Let 's eat .
ATTEWATER: What is this ?
SOLOMON: A statement declaring that you heard the boy confess . All it equires is your signature . O your mark , if you can not write .
ATTEWATER: But he has not confessed . How could he have ?
SOLOMON: Very well . Listen more carefully this time .
ATTEWATER: Stop this .
SOLOMON: No . You stop it . We both know he is guilty . But I can not legally execute him without a witness or a confession . Sign this and we have a confession .
SOLOMON: This is the business of werewolf hunting and you had best develop a stomach for it . Because where there is one werewolf , there are two . And where there are two , there are more .
BEAT: This is only the beginning .
CAPTAIN: A girl to see you .
SOLOMON: Well , I 've yet to come across a girl I would n't at least look at .
ROXANNE: I would like to bargain for the elease of my brother .
SOLOMON: Your brother has just confessed .
ROXANNE: What ? That 's not possible !
SOLOMON: It has been witnessed and notarized . He will hang in the morning .
ROXANNE: I have more than money to offe you .
SOLOMON: What do you think you are doing ? Do you have any idea who I am ? I am the Witchfinder General . I have fought in the Holy Land . I have waded hip deep in blood and esisted all the temptations of the infidels . And you seek to stay the hand of justice with such a tawdry bribe ? Leave here , girl , efore I have you whipped .
ROXANNE: Wait ! I have something else ! I know the name of a witch !
SOLOMON: How are you acquainted with the accused ?
ROXANNE: We were friends .
SOLOMON: And how long did this friendship last ?
ROXANNE: All my life .
SOLOMON: And in this time , have you eve known the accused to converse with devils ?
ROXANNE: Yes , Your Eminence . On the night of the last full moon , she talked to the werewolf . And later she told me that it also talked to her .
SOLOMON: What of this ? Do you deny having conversed with a werewolf ?
ISABELLE: No . I do not deny it .
SOLOMON: Describe this encounter .
ISABELLE: It spoke , just as a man speaks .
SOLOMON: And what was the nature of you conversation with it ?
ISABELLE: It told me It promised to leave here and never return . But only if I leave with it .
REEVE: But who is it ? Make her tell us who the werewolf is !
ISABELLE: I do n't know ! I swear I do n't know !
MERCHANT: It does n't matter who it is anymore . It wants her , not us . Let 's just give it what it wants .
FATHER AUGUSTE: We should not allow ourselves to even consider this .
REEVE: I think we already are .
GRANDMOTHER: What 's the matter with you ? You know her . You all know her .
REEVE: Do we ? Did we know she could talk to werewolves ?
GRANDMOTHER: She could have run away . She could saved herself , but she stayed here because she cares more about you than she does herself .
MERCHANT: If she stayed , she did so because she is in league with it . Let this be her punishment .
SOLOMON: Very well . Isabelle Ordeville , in light of your willing confession , it is the decision of this court that on the night of the next full moon , you be left to the mercy of the werewolf .
HENRI: No !
LUCRECE: The first victim was her sister . The second was her fiance 's father . Then Rosemaria , who everyone knows she hated . And do n't forget her mother , with half her face missing . All this death around one girl Prudence has heard enough . She turns away .
ROXANNE: I 'm here for my brother .
GRANDMOTHER: I 'm not going to let these worthless shits sacrifice you to save themselves . We have to find the real werewolf before tomorrow night .
ISABELLE: That 's impossible . Even Fathe Solomon does n't have the first clue .
GRANDMOTHER: Father Solomon does n't know the things that I know . I am the oldest person in this village who was here when the Wolf first came . I remember the old days . And what is happening now is much worse .
ISABELLE: What was it like in the old days ?
GRANDMOTHER: The Wolf never used to attack in the open like it did at the festival . It 's a coward at heart . It would kill whole families in their homes , but it always stayed in the shadows . It never would have shown itself in the old days .
ISABELLE: It 's grown bold .
GRANDMOTHER: Or perhaps it made a mistake .
BEAT: You 're at the center of this . At least two of the victims can be tied to you . What if it had to kill so many at the festival to hide the fact that the first two killings were n't random ?
ISABELLE: But who would want to kill Lucie ?
GRANDMOTHER: Your parents said that the Wolf oke into the house and took Lucie . We both know that 's not true . What really happened ? Isabelle hesitates , reluctant .
ISABELLE: My mother made me swear I would never speak of it .
BEAT: Lucie went to the Wolf willingly . Grandmother reacts , horrified .
GRANDMOTHER: Why would you think such a thing ?
ISABELLE: She was in love with Henri .
GRANDMOTHER: She took her own life over a boy ?
ISABELLE: What other explanation is there ?
GRANDMOTHER: Hello , Henri .
HENRI: I just said what I felt .
GRANDMOTHER: You 're under no obligation to stand in her defense . You broke off your engagement to her .
HENRI: I never stopped caring about her . I would do anything for Isabelle .
GRANDMOTHER: As her sister would have done anything for you . Lucie was in love with you . But you knew that , did n't you ?
HENRI: I had no control over the way she felt .
GRANDMOTHER: She kept it secret from almost everyone . Even Isabelle did n't know . Did you tell anyone ?
HENRI: Never .
GRANDMOTHER: Not even your father ?
HENRI: I did n't have to tell him .
GRANDMOTHER: So he knew your secrets , did he ?
HENRI: Why are you doing this ?
GRANDMOTHER: Because I want you to confess . You killed Lucie . And you father . And God only knows how many others . And if you wo n't admit it , then I will tell Fathe Solomon and we will lock you up until the moon rises tomorrow night and you can no longer hide your guilt .
HENRI: It 's you .
GRANDMOTHER: Smell what ? What are you talking about ?
HENRI: The night my father died . I saw the Wolf pass by , dragging him by the neck . I was so terrified I could n't move or make a sound . I emember every detail of that moment . The way the moonlight gleamed off the Wolf 's coat . The soundless way it moved . I even emember the way it smelled . A thick , greasy , musky stink .
BEAT: And I can smell it on you right now .
GRANDMOTHER: You accuse me and I 'll bring you down with me . All they can do is take my life . You have more to lose .
HENRI: But who do you think they 'll elieve ? I 'm the blacksmith .
GRANDMOTHER: Then I 'll have to prove it .
HENRI: Unless you can , you 'd best keep your mouth shut .
CESAIRE: Are you ready for me to take you home ?
GRANDMOTHER: Stop the cart .
PRUDENCE: All right . Cesaire helps Grandmother out of the cart .
CESAIRE: Will you want a ride into town tomorrow ? To say goodbye to her ?
GRANDMOTHER: Yes . First thing in the morning .
HERALD: Full moon ! Full moon ! Full moon !
GRANDMOTHER: Show yourself ! Coward !
THE FIGURE: Go away .
PRUDENCE: Are you all right ?
THE FIGURE: I 'm sick . You ca n't come in .
PRUDENCE: You sound awful . Would you like us to make you something ?
THE FIGURE: No . You must n't come in . Go home , now . I want to sleep .
ROXANNE: Are you sure you do n't want us to ing you something ?
THE FIGURE: No , my dear . Come back tomorrow .
FATHER AUGUSTE: I 've come to hear your final confession . Isabelle nods shakily and sits up . He enters .
ISABELLE: Has there been any word from my grandmother ?
FATHER AUGUSTE: None that I have heard . Why ?
SERVANT BOY: She 's still in the dungeon . They 're going to move her at sunset .
ATTEWATER: We 've hanged the werewolf . Why not let the girl go free ?
SOLOMON: I told you , Bailiff . Where there is one werewolf , there are more . And the girl is the bait for ou trap .
PETER: I need your help . Off Henri 's look
ATTEWATER: Where is your mother ?
CESAIRE: I do n't know . I went to pick he up this morning and she was gone .
ATTEWATER: Stop pouring that swill down you gullet listen to me !
CAPTAIN: It 's just a precaution . Fathe Solomon does n't want the girl 's family interfering .
ISABELLE: What have you done to him ? !
CESAIRE: I love you , my angel . You do n't know how much .
LUCRECE: Not so pretty now , is she ?
PRUDENCE: Where 's Peter ?
HENRI: I have n't seen him .
SOLOMON: We , Bailiff Attewater , Fathe Auguste , and Father Solomon of Avignon , having in mind that you , Isabelle Ordeville of Villiers la Croise in the Diocese of Saint-
ISABELLE: Help
PRUDENCE: Isabelle ? Can you hear me ?
ISABELLE: I can hear you .
PRUDENCE: Roxanne wanted you to know how sorry she is . She only said those things to save her brother .
ISABELLE: I know . Will you tell her that I forgive her ?
PRUDENCE: Of course .
BEAT: I wanted to say I do n't know what to say .
ISABELLE: You do n't have to say anything .
PRUDENCE: I want to .
BEAT: I want you to know that you may have fooled Roxanne , but you do n't fool me . Not anymore . You were always too good . Too pretty . Nobody could be as perfect as you . You tricked us . And now you 're going to get what you deserve .
ISABELLE: I think you 'd better go now . Prudence looks up . The sun has almost set .
PRUDENCE: Yes . It wo n't be long now .
SOLOMON: No one shoots until I give the order .
ISABELLE: Get away from me !
HENRI: I 'm not the Wolf ! The moon is out ! Look , I have n't turned !
ISABELLE: Yes ! Yes , please hurry !
CAPTAIN: He 's going to free her . Then another HOWL . Almost on top of them .
SOLOMON: Patience . It 's close now
HENRI: Can you stand ? Isabelle nods . In the loft
SOLOMON: Kill him .
HENRI: We have to get to the stable . Peter left his cart for us .
ISABELLE: Peter ? Where is he ?
HENRI: It does n't matter . Come on !
CAPTAIN: The witch has escaped ! The witch has escaped !
HENRI: It 's gone .
ISABELLE: I do n't think so
REEVE: Take her ! Take her and leave us in peace ! The Wolf SNARLS at him and turns to Isabelle .
THE WOLF: You ca n't outrun me , my dear . And there is no place you can hide that I can not smell you out .
BEAT: So what is your decision ? Will you take your place with me ?
ISABELLE: My place will never be with you .
THE WOLF: Where do you belong then ? Here ? With the cowards who so gladly sacrificed you to save themselves ?
ISABELLE: They 're still good people .
THE WOLF: They are sheep . We are not like them . Let me show you what you are .
HENRI: Get away from her !
HENRI: I need to tell you something . In case I die . Your grandmother is the Wolf .
ISABELLE: The Wolf is a man . It told me .
HENRI: You believe it ?
ISABELLE: Follow me . She takes his hand and leads him away .
MARGUERITE: Have you lost your mind ? If they find her here , they 'll kill us , too !
ROXANNE: Then shut up so they do n't find her .
HENRI: We have to get out of town .
ROXANNE: You 'll never make it . You can hide here until morning .
ISABELLE: They 're searching everywhere . We have to keep moving .
ROXANNE: You might make it to the church . Even the king can not violate the protection of sanctuary .
HENRI: And the Wolf can not cross onto holy ground .
ISABELLE: Can we go out your back window ?
ROXANNE: Wait ! I have an idea .
REEVE: They 're here ! Over here !
HENRI: Can you keep going ?
ROXANNE: I can if you can . They run off , chased by the Villagers .
SOLOMON: At least you wo n't die alone now . Your friends will all hang with you .
THE WOLF: There is your mighty werewolf hunter . Who will save you now ?
HENRI: You bastard ! You killed my father !
ISABELLE: Henri , what are you doing ?
HENRI: I 'm not letting it take you .
ISABELLE: He 's right . It 's a coward at heart . Look at it . Why does n't it attack ?
MERCHANT: You killed my daughter !
THE WOLF: I will come for you again .
HENRI: Are you all right ? Isabelle nods , shaky . Then
SOLOMON: I am bitten .
ISABELLE: It 's past noon .
SUZETTE: I know . I did n't want to wake you .
ISABELLE: Where 's Father ?
SUZETTE: He 'll be home soon . They have no eason to hold him any longer .
ISABELLE: Did they catch the Wolf ?
SUZETTE: No . They lost it in the forest . This gives Isabelle pause . A beat . Then
ISABELLE: What about Grandmother ?
SUZETTE: Roxanne came by . She said you grandmother has fallen ill . I was hoping you could look in on her . Off Isabelle 's troubled look
PETER: Thank God you 're all right .
ISABELLE: I 'm fine . You sent Henri to help me .
PETER: What did he tell you ? Isabelle gives him a hurt look .
ISABELLE: Those people back there . I know they mean well , but they 're just people . I did n't expect anything from them . I expected something from you .
PETER: I just need to talk to you .
ISABELLE: I 'm going to see my Grandmother . She 's sick . Please do n't follow me .
REEVE: You 're certain nobody has seen him since last night ?
GUARD: The Wolf must have taken him . What else could have done that ?
THE FIGURE: I 've been expecting you .
ISABELLE: Mother sent some food . There are cakes and a pot of butter
THE FIGURE: Do n't come in here .
ISABELLE: Are you sure ? You sound so weak .
THE FIGURE: I just made myself a stew . I left it over the fire for you .
ISABELLE: I came here to take care of you . Not the other way around .
THE FIGURE: Do n't be silly , my dear . You 've een through so much . Sit down .
SMILES: You always say that .
THE FIGURE: That 's right . Eat up , my dear . Eat up .
ISABELLE: I 've been worried about you . When you did n't come back yesterday , I was afraid
BEAT: You were wrong about Henri .
THE FIGURE: Was I now ?
ISABELLE: Yes . He saved my life .
THE FIGURE: It 's just the stew warming you .
ISABELLE: What is this ?
THE FIGURE: If you do n't like it , there 's wine on the table to wash it down .
ISABELLE: I do n't think I want to .
THE FIGURE: Then I will come to you .
ISABELLE: What is this ? Where 's Grandmother ?
CESAIRE: I 'm afraid I ate most of her .
BEAT: You ate the rest .
CESAIRE: I did n't want to kill her . But she finally realized what I was .
ISABELLE: You 're not the Wolf . You ca n't e
CESAIRE: Look into my eyes . The one part of me I can never change .
ISABELLE: Oh , dear God You killed Lucie ? You killed my sister ?
CESAIRE: I did more than that to her .
CESAIRE: Lucie was the joy of my life . But she was n't mine .
ISABELLE: Yes , she was . In every way that matters , she was .
CESAIRE: No . Not in every way that matters . My father sired me . I am a werewolf because it was in his blood . Because I was his .
ISABELLE: Did Grandmother know ?
CESAIRE: No . And neither does your mother .
CESAIRE: This does n't concern you , Isabelle .
ISABELLE: Yes , Father .
CESAIRE: She was not a werewolf yet . I had to turn her .
CESAIRE: The bite should have changed her . It should have made her like me . But it did n't . That 's when I knew . There was no werewolf blood in her . I was not her father . I was so angry . I killed her before I even realized I was doing it .
ISABELLE: There must indeed be a God . Fo you are surely the Devil
CESAIRE: I will give you a choice . Come with me now . Or refuse me and let your friends suffer in your place . I will kill them one by one . You mother . Roxanne . Peter .
ISABELLE: Father ?
CESAIRE: Yes , my dear ?
ISABELLE: You gave me two choices . She turns to face him . Looks up at him .
PETER: We ca n't tell anyone . If they do n't believe you , they 'll hang you for this . And if they do elieve you , they 'll hang you fo eing the daughter of the Wolf .
ISABELLE: Then I 'll run away . I was ready to run away last night .
BEAT: Why did n't you come for me ?
PETER: I was bitten at the festival . I spent last night in the woods ecause I was afraid of what might happen
A BEAT: I changed . I 'm like him now .
ISABELLE: No , you 're not . You could neve e like him .
PETER: I ca n't stay here .
ISABELLE: Yes , you can . We can still be together . My father lived here . My grandfather lived here .
PETER: Your father and your grandfathe killed people . They could n't help themselves . If I stay here , I wo n't be able to control myself . I have to be alone .
ISABELLE: I do n't want him ever found .
PETER: We 'll weight him with rocks .
ISABELLE: No . We 'll put the rocks inside him . Cut him open . I will sew the ocks inside him . Peter is taken aback . She 's serious .
ISABELLE: Wait .
PETER: They 're silver .
ISABELLE: I can live with it .
PETER: I do n't know . I need to understand what I 've become . Maybe I can learn to control it . I 'll take my own life before I take another 's .
ISABELLE: I know .
PETER: I 'm not coming back . I do n't want you to wait for me . This is the last time you 'll ever see me .
ISABELLE: No , it is n't . You 'll be in my dreams until the day I die .
PETER: You know , Henri is a good man .
ISABELLE: Yes , he is .
NICK: What 's the first thing , man ? What 's the first thing you 're gon na do ?
RUDY: Have n't thought about it .
NICK: Hell you have n't .
RUDY: Get to thinking about it , it wo n't happen .
NICK: We walk outta here , we hit that road , what 's the first thing you 're gon na do .
RUDY: Ai n't there yet .
NICK: Three days , man .
RUDY: Not yet .
NICK: Fuckin ' Christmas , man . Fuckin , Christmas on the outs .
RUDY: Hot chocolate .
NICK: What ?
RUDY: Get a hot mug of chocolate . First thing I 'm gon na do .
NICK: And a slice of pecan pie , right ?
RUDY: And some pecan pie .
NICK: She 's gon na be out there , man . Right there . Right there waiting .
RUDY: Yeah .
NICK: Gon na walk out of this shitstorm and ight into her arms .
RUDY: Yeah .
NICK: Got us a motel out Highway 5 , bringing her own damn sheets , you read that part ? Silk damn sheets . Lock ourselves in the whole week , drinking wine , taking baths , man , see if they got those room service steaks anything I want to do . Remember when she wrote that ? Anything I want
RUDY: Yeah . Fuckin ' Christmas .
NICK: Why you got ta say a thing like that .
RUDY: I 'm just saying .
NICK: Why you got ta . We were gon na give you a ride someplace , man . Now I just do n't know .
RUDY: I 'm just talking .
NICK: Fuck your hot chocolate , Rudy .
RUDY: For twenty-five , she sounds pretty mature .
NICK: Yeah . You grow up in Detroit , you get matured real quick .
RUDY: What if she sees you , man , sees what you look like and it 's not there . You just do n't do it for her .
NICK: Me and her got a connection . Read this part . Read the part about stuffing her stocking .
RUDY: She 's using a new perfume .
NICK: No , I think that 's just oranges . She writes here she 's eating oranges .
RUDY: Oh .
NICK: Shoulda written to that magazine , Rudy . I 'm gon na walk outta here , walk right into a relationship . Not some one-nighter , man a elationship . You ? You 're gon na walk outta here with bus fare . Searching for the drunkest skirt in the room .
RUDY: Mornin ' , gorgeous . More egg nog ?
NICK: Shoulda written , Rudy
RUDY: All I want is to make it to Sidnaw , and sit down for Christmas dinner . Watch some ball with my old man , sleep in my old bed , and have leftovers for bout six months .
NICK: Thought you hated Sidnaw .
RUDY: Just taste that Christmas turkey .
NICK: Thought you hate your old man .
RUDY: Five years , Nicky . Five years . I just want to go home .
NICK: Well , man . Me and Ashley . We 'll be thinking about you .
RUDY: Shit . Alamo 's back .
NICK: Do n't look like he missed the sunlight .
RUDY: Pinscher told me Alamo thinks I 'm the one ratted on him beating up Cree . Since I was there , I saw it , he thinks I got him sent to solitary .
NICK: Aw , Rudy .
RUDY: Count me outta mealtime
MEAN GUARD: GET BACK IN LINE !
RUDY: I 'm not hungry , I 'm gon na
NICK: What the fuck is this ?
UGLY STAFFER: Holiday jello .
NICK: What 's this shit in it ?
UGLY STAFFER: Swallow and see .
NICK: Just so you know , this man and I are outta here in two days . So while we 're inhaling London broil and lobster bisque , you 're gon na still e standing here smelling up the mystery creamfuck . Who 's in prison now ?
THE ALAMO: When you do n't expect it .
RUDY: It was n't me , Alamo
THE ALAMO: That 's when .
NICK: Two days .
RUDY: What , working security ?
NICK: No , I 'm through with that shit . Ashley 's right . Got ta start doing something I got a stake in . Get a usiness going .
RUDY: I do n't know , I 've seen the business world .
NICK: Hotwiring cars , Rudy , does not qualify as a small business . Chop shop consultant ; does n't work on a resume .
RUDY: The hell you doing , Zookerman ?
NICK: Just a roach , Zook .
RUDY: Good for you . Protein .
ZOOK: Monsters in the gelatin
NICK: It 's a roach , guy
ZOOK: There are monsters in the gelatin
NICK: Oh , man Zook stands up , holding jello aloft
NICK: Fuckin , Zookerman
DISTANT INMATE: Sonofabitch !
NICK: Rudy , do n't move
RUDY: Two days , we got two days ! Do n't do nothing . Do n't touch nothing
NICK: Do n't move , Rudy !
RUDY: Standing right here , man !
NICK: Ate the jello , jello was fine !
RUDY: NICK !
NICK: Alamo
RUDY: GUARD ! ! !
NICK: Jesus , Rudy
RUDY: Take it , man ! You 're all right ! Hold it in ! GUARD !
NICK: Oh , fuck , Rudy oh Jesus
RUDY: GUARD ! ! !
NICK: Ash Ashley
RUDY: No , man ! No , no , no !
NICK: Tell her I 'll be there
RUDY: You 're GON NA be there ! We 're getting outta here ! TAKE IT !
NICK: Tell Ashley I
RUDY: YOU TELL HER !
NICK: be with her
RUDY: NO ! ! !
NICK: for Christmas
RUDY: NICK ! ! !
RUDY: NICK ! ! !
MEAN GUARD: Well . Least he wo n't be coming back .
EXIT GUARD: Your world and welcome to it , dumbfucks ! Do n't be a stranger now ! We 'll keep the lights on for ya !
ASHLEY: Good . Rudy nods . Silence again .
RUDY: Got ta be ten degrees out there .
ASHLEY: Radio said negative five .
RUDY: Negative five ?
ASHLEY: Yeah .
RUDY: I do n't think it 's negative five .
ASHLEY: Radio said . Beat .
RUDY: Wind chill . That 's probably what they meant . Ashley nods . Rudy bites his lip .
ASHLEY: I figured you walked outta there and saw me and walked right the othe way
RUDY: No , no
ASHLEY: Saw my outfit or something , my coat
RUDY: No , hey , I like your coat
ASHLEY: Saw me
RUDY: Ashley , no . That was me , that 's what I was scared of . I mean , be serious I ai n't exactly looking like Mr. Universe here .
ASHLEY: You are to me . Rudy goes silent . Whoa . Ashley considers .
RUDY: I can get another one going . Y'know , hey , whatever you want me to
ASHLEY: No , no , no . Be like you want to be .
RUDY: Do that again .
ASHLEY: What .
RUDY: Smile . Ashley smiles again , blushing now .
ASHLEY: No
RUDY: One more . Smile . One more .
ASHLEY: No , c'mon
RUDY: I 've been dreaming about that smile , Ashley Mercer . For a long time .
ASHLEY: You 're better than the picture in my mind , Nick You 're real .
RUDY: Tell me something . This the first time you 've ever done this ?
ASHLEY: Go to hell , Nick Mason , what 's that supposed to mean
RUDY: No , not that , no I mean this , the whole thing . Start writing to a guy , guy in the bricks . Get a boyfriend like this . Tell me the truth .
ASHLEY: Well . You 're not the first guy I wrote to . But you 're the only one I kept writing to .
RUDY: Yeah . Me too . Why ? I mean I know why for me , why I paid for the ad . But you why start writing to some guy some con you do n't even know ?
ASHLEY: I told you , Nick . Remember ?
RUDY: Tell me again .
ASHLEY: All the guys I 've ever been with they never want to know me . Who I am on the inside . They just want to qet inside . When they do , they think that means they know who I am . That I trust them . That they know me . That there 's nothing left to learn . A guy like you , Nick six months efore you can even touch my face . I figure a guy in that kind of bind , he 's gon na hafta work to get to know me some other way .
RUDY: Had some bad relationships , did n't you .
ASHLEY: Not bad . Just regular . You wrote me wonderful things , Nick . Personal things . She turns to him , kisses his chest
RUDY: Well , was n't all me , y'know .
ASHLEY: Yes it was all you
RUDY: Guy I was in with he helped sometimes some of the romantic stuff , actually you 'd like him
ASHLEY: I 'm talking about the heart , Nick . I 'm not talking about the words .
RUDY: Y'know , some of the heart mighta een his too
ASHLEY: Then he shoulda signed his name .
RUDY: Where the hell are you going ?
ASHLEY: Provisions ! We are not leaving that motel room again till after New Year 's we need ten days worth of provisions ! What 's good ? !
COOKIE MATRON: Oh my , we 've got a special on ou chocolate crunchie elves , they 're shaped like little helpers
ASHLEY: THIS MAN has not had a cookie in two goddamn years ! Get him two of everything !
RUDY: Ashley , Jesus
ASHLEY: Ca n't survive on our bodies alone , Nick . Hurry up !
RUDY: Ash did n't you write me that you do n't eat chocolate ?
ASHLEY: Yeah , well you wrote me you were six- foot-four , baby . So do n't talk to me about little white lies .
RUDY: Ash , you 've gotten me enough
ASHLEY: No boyfriend of mine is going to walk around in negative-five degree wind chill without a goddamn good- looking coat !
RUDY: Baby , c'mon , all this stuff I have n't gotten you anything
ASHLEY: You got out , Nick . You 're here . You 're my Christmas .
RUDY: It 's two hundred dollars , Ash
ASHLEY: You forget where I work ?
RUDY: Beauty and fragrances .
ASHLEY: Fifty percent off , motherfucker . Ho ho ho .
RUDY: Just for the holidays , Nick . Then we 'll tell her . We 'll let her have her holidays
TEEN CLERK: You ca n't find what ?
ASHLEY: Toys for adults . Where are your toys for adults ?
TEEN CLERK: Toys for adults ?
ASHLEY: C'mon . How old are you , sixteen ? C'mon .
TEEN CLERK: We sell children 's toys
ASHLEY: I got fifty dollars to spend in you store , Jesus of Nazareth . Can you help me or not ? The clerk glances around , then , low
TEEN CLERK: Slinky 's in aisle five , Twister 's in aisle one , Moon Mud 's in aisle four .
ASHLEY: Thank you .
RUDY: Well , I do n't know about that
ASHLEY: Blackjack , Nick , blackjack I am good at . I mean , they 'd give us some free games or something , would n't they ? Since you worked there ?
RUDY: Security , Ash , I just worked security . They would n't be rolling out the red carpet
ASHLEY: And the slots , slots I 'm good at too . Would n't that be fun ?
RUDY: We 'll have more fun in Detroit .
ASHLEY: We could live it up and
RUDY: Ashley . We 're not going anywhere I used to work .
ASHLEY: I just I thought you 'd have friends there Rudy softens , touches her arms
RUDY: Hey . I been in prison for two years , Ash . Believe me . Those guys would n't want to see me .
ASHLEY: Well , they do n't know what the hell they 're missing .
RUDY: I 'll see what I can do .
ASHLEY: No , lover . I 'll see what you can do .
RUDY: I have no gifts to bring , parum-pum- pum-pum . No treasures for the king , pa-rum-pum-pum-pum
GABRIEL: Welcome home , Nick .
PUG: I owe ya a drink , ya fuck
RUDY: You you do n't know me
GABRIEL: Oh , I know you , Nick . I know you eal well .
RUDY: No , you ca n't
GABRIEL: The hell I ca n't . As the room 's door gets kicked open
ASHLEY: Watch out , baby ! I 'm bringing in the fucking tree !
RUDY: ASHLEY !
ASHLEY: I 'm telling you , we got the best one in the store I do n't know why people want their houses smelling like the stupid woods
RUDY: NO !
ASHLEY: NICK !
GABRIEL: Hope her taste in men 's better than her taste in Christmas .
ASHLEY: Gabriel !
GABRIEL: Must have a way with stationery .
ASHLEY: Gabriel , what are you doing !
GABRIEL: You better be here to be good to her , loverboy . 'Cause she 's been good to you .
ASHLEY: Gabriel , let him go
GABRIEL: Read a lot about you , Nick .
ASHLEY: What are you doing here ? !
GABRIEL: Read you 're a man of some knowledge .
ASHLEY: Gabriel !
GABRIEL: A man of some travels .
RUDY: I 'm not Nick Gabriel frowns . Rudy turns to Ashley .
ASHLEY: Nick
GABRIEL: Who are you now .
RUDY: You got the wrong guy ! She thinks I 'm Nick , I 'm not !
GABRIEL: Put him in the truck .
RUDY: I was in the joint with him ! I knew about him and her , okay ! ? I took his place !
GABRIEL: You what
RUDY: I got out , Nick did n't ! I pretended I was him ! I knew about her letters ! Jesus Christ , whatever you want from him I 'm not Nick ! I I just wanted to be
GABRIEL: You 're not Nick Mason
RUDY: I shared his cell !
GABRIEL: But you were saying you were
RUDY: Yes !
GABRIEL: So you could get with my sister .
RUDY: Yes !
GABRIEL: So you could get down her chimney .
RUDY: Yes !
GABRIEL: And you think telling me that 's gon na help your cause .
ASHLEY: Do n't hurt him
GABRIEL: Is this the fucker you been writing all year ! ?
ASHLEY: Please , Gabriel , do n't Gabriel puts the gun to Rudy 's head .
ASHLEY: YES ! ! !
GABRIEL: Well , he 's gon na have to learn to give you some respect .
MERLIN: Hey . They got a shitload of cookies .
GABRIEL: Take 'em .
MERLIN: How 'bout the tree ? You want the tree ?
GABRIEL: Leave the tree .
ASHLEY: I wo n't let 'em , Nick . They wo n't hurt you anymore .
RUDY: Your brother Ashley nods . Rudy looks around , remembering .
ASHLEY: He 's not a bad person , Nick he 's not
RUDY: What the fuck is going on .
ASHLEY: He read the letters , Nick . Some day I was n't there . He went through my oom . He found your letters .
RUDY: What 's going ON ! ! ! The truck shakes .
ASHLEY: He knows you worked in that casino . Rudy stares at her . She 's scared
RUDY: You motherfucker .
ASHLEY: Nick , no
RUDY: You sold him out .
ASHLEY: Nick
RUDY: When 'd you decide to do it , Ash ? After which of his letters , huh ? The fortieth ? The fiftieth ? The first ? !
ASHLEY: Nick , what are you
RUDY: I 'M NOT NICK ! You thought you 'd fuck him over ? ! Well he 's fucked you ! I 've neve worked at some casino ! I ca n't help you ! Because he 's not me !
ASHLEY: Nick , I love you
RUDY: JESUS CHRIST !
PUG: Watch your mouth , man . It 's Christmas .
RUDY: I 'M NOT NICK !
ASHLEY: Nick , it wo n't work . It wo n't work !
RUDY: You 're not hearing me here
ASHLEY: My brother 's killed people , I know he has . Truckers . If you talk him into thinking you 're not you , you 'll only get yourself dead .
RUDY: He did n't `` find '' Nick 's letters , did he .
ASHLEY: Nick , please , it 's me
RUDY: You told him about Nick 's letters .
ASHLEY: No , Nick , no
RUDY: You 're in on this .
ASHLEY: I love you ! Rudy stares at her coldly .
RUDY: Y'know , in a way , I 'm glad it 's me . 'Cause you woulda broken his heart .
ASHLEY: If you say that , if you keep saying that , they will kill you . If they think you 're not you , they will kill you . Do n't you see ? I know what you 're doing , but it wo n't work !
RUDY: Nick died for me .
ASHLEY: I wo n't let him hurt you ! He just wants what you know !
RUDY: maybe I die for Nick
ASHLEY: Just tell him what you know , Nick ! That 's all they want ! And we 'll get out of this !
GABRIEL: `` My sweet , sexy Ashy-lashy , I have een dreaming of you constantly , and knowing you are out there makes these walls not seem so close or so strong or so cold '' Women live for this stuff . Dreaming 'bout your this , dreaming 'bout your those , gettin ' X-rated on me here , Nicky where are we oh , right , other side `` Someday I 'm gon na take you up by Lake S. Before I went in , before goddamn Millie , 'fore I had my situation , I used to work up at this casino , working security . Used to watch for people stealing chips , counting cards , getting piss-drunk , that kinda shit . Indian place , they hired this reject outta Vegas to run it , got about as much business sense as a buffalo patty . Anyways , it 's a fun place to run some numbers and play . '' Gabriel puts the letter down .
RUDY: I never worked at no casino .
ASHLEY: Nick
RUDY: That 's the guy I was in with , I did my last ten months with him . He rode a two-year bit for manslaughter split a guy 's skull open at a ba for harassing his girl . That 's Nick Mason . He worked at that casino . He 's the one who wrote her letters . Me , I 'm a damn mechanic , my last jo was a Quickie Lube , I did five fo lifting cars . I do n't know shit about lackjack , I do n't know shit about Indians . I 'm not him .
GABRIEL: Bury this guy .
ASHLEY: Gabriel , you promised !
GABRIEL: I promised that when he helped us , we 'd be gone ! When he helped us ! Loverboy do n't want to play !
ASHLEY: You promised me !
GABRIEL: And you promised me you 'd get you sweetheart to help ! Rudy meets eyes with Ashley . She 's caught .
ASHLEY: NO !
MERLIN: Beats prison , I guess .
JUMPY: The problem with prison is that it is founded on the fundamentally flawed perception of rehabilitation through punishment . A society ca n't hope to create a `` changed man '' by surrounding him with the worst in his fellow man ; what it `` rehabilitates '' is solely a conviction that if he can survive the inhumanity of prison , what then , can he not withstand ? He has seen man 's darkest soul and kept his sight what is left for such a man ? What faith ? What fear ?
GABRIEL: Everything .
ASHLEY: I love you Nick , I love you Rudy wo n't meet her eyes .
GABRIEL: Hey . She says she loves you , Nick .
RUDY: She says a lot of things .
GABRIEL: She 's getting you to help us 'cause she knows if you do n't , you 're dead . You just tell us what we need to know , you two live happily ever after . My sister loves you , motherfucker , and I ai n't gon na have you break he heart .
RUDY: Wish I had a brother like you .
GABRIEL: A girl says she loves you , you say something .
RUDY: I had better sex in prison .
GABRIEL: Heyyy . Be nice , convict . We 're gon na e working together here . Get him back in the rig .
PUG: Whole time you were driving , he was telling her he 's not the guy , he 's not the guy . I know why he 'd tell us he 's not the guy . why 's he telling her he 's not the guy ? What if he 's not the guy ?
GABRIEL: The man who wrote those letters loved Ashley , boys . He lived for her love . Let 's see him live for love .
RUDY: What ?
GABRIEL: Wrote you a hundred letters , did n't she ? Where 's she work ?
RUDY: J.C. Penney . Beauty and fragrances .
GABRIEL: What 's her middle name ?
RUDY: Samantha .
GABRIEL: What 'd they call her in high school ?
RUDY: Bam Bam .
GABRIEL: What 'd they call her in college ?
RUDY: What college .
GABRIEL: Where 'd she drop her cherry ?
ASHLEY: Gabriel !
RUDY: Canada .
GABRIEL: Be more specific .
RUDY: A station wagon in Canada .
GABRIEL: What 's her greatest fear ?
RUDY: Her brother .
GABRIEL: Wrong , Nick . It 's drowning .
RUDY: No . It 's her brother . Rudy stares him down . Gabriel shrugs .
GABRIEL: That 's love .
RUDY: Nick do n't talk till Nick gets something .
MERLIN: You want that for here or to go ?
RUDY: I been in Iron Mountain for two years , truck driver . I do one more crime , I 'm back there for good , so fuck you and fuck your sister and fuck you trucker friends . You want to hea about some goddamn job of mine ? I want some hot-goddamn-chocolate . They 've stopped laughing .
GABRIEL: So when you worked there
RUDY: Hey .
ASHLEY: Gabriel ! You said talk to him . That 's all you ever said
GABRIEL: We 're talking , are n't we ? Rudy holds his nose . Blood trickles .
RUDY: I do n't know .
GABRIEL: The hell you do n't .
RUDY: Five million ?
GABRIEL: You wrote Ash that letter , you told her that story 'bout working Christmas Eve , bout how they 'd send half the security guys home , nobody comin , in that night . And the rest of you got shit-faced drinking hot buttered um . That a true story now ?
RUDY: Christmas Eve
GABRIEL: You know where the guards are . You know how to get in and out . You know where the money is . We 're taking down that casino , convict . You 're the guy gon na tell us how . Rudy turns slightly pale .
RUDY: Hey , it 's been two years
GABRIEL: We got faith in you , Nick Mason . You 're our inside man .
RUDY: goddamn it , Rudy goddamn it goddamn girl , goddamn Nick you 're so smart , so fucking smart
JUMPY: I 've read where the retail industry does fifty percent of its business etween December 1st and Decembe 25th . Half the year 's business , in one month 's time . It seems to me an intelligent society would legislate a second such gift-giving holiday , create , say , a Christmas Two late May , early June to furthe stimulate growth and prosperity . Fo who would protest such a holiday ? Taking the fifty percent model , a Christmas Two would grow this country 's annual per capita income y close to one-third . Everyone stares at Jumpy .
GABRIEL: Christmas Two . The Indian nods . Gabriel shakes his head .
MERLIN: And where they hide the real money .
GABRIEL: And Nick ? If you even think about setting us up , giving us some bad information ? We go down you go down Now . Christmas Eve . How many guards are there gon na be ?
RUDY: Hell . Ten ?
GABRIEL: And which of these doors here lead up to the security level ?
MERLIN: Start talking , Nick . Rudy 's still staring .
PUG: Start talkin
RUDY: Who the hell made this map .
GABRIEL: What ?
RUDY: I said , who the hell made the map ?
GABRIEL: I did .
RUDY: This is n't the Tomahawk .
GABRIEL: What the fuck are you talking about .
RUDY: This is the front entrance , right ? You get through the slots , you hit craps here , not blackjack . Blackjack 's here to here lined up . What 's this , the cage ? Cage is over there , hard to get to , you got it all mixed around
PUG: That 's what it looks like !
RUDY: Since when ? What the hell is this oom ?
MERLIN: Buffet . Whaddya think it is ?
RUDY: Buffet is by the goddamn bar ! What the hell kind of map is this ? !
GABRIEL: We walked the place for a week .
RUDY: And I worked there . For a year . Neither man blinks .
PUG: Map is kinda dirty , Monster
RUDY: They changed the layout .
GABRIEL: What ? Rudy nods , pretending to be dawned upon .
RUDY: They changed the layout whadda they call you ? Mr. Monster ? They emodeled the place . When I worked there listen to me guy that managed the joint , guy who ran it
ASHLEY: Jack . Jack Bangs .
RUDY: Right , Jack Bangs . Uh guy was always talking bout fixing the place up . Maybe get a better crowd . Musta gone and done it while I was in the Mountain . I do n't know this map , man . How the hell am I supposed to tell you what door goes where ?
GABRIEL: They would n't have changed the security setup .
RUDY: When I worked there , this was Bangs , office . Back here . He kept a little safe in the uh , the wall , money held take for himself , skim from the Indians . Called it the uh the Powwow Safe .
JUMPY: The Powwow Safe ?
RUDY: His personal safe , he gave it a name . Now you 're telling me they 've taken his office , put the buffet there ? Then who knows what else they changed . Gabriel stares at him , suspicious .
GABRIEL: So what the hell good are you
RUDY: You 'd have to get me inside . Get inside , watch where the money 's moving , see where the guards are going . Then I could work with you map .
GABRIEL: Wrong , convict . You walk in there , they recognize you .
PUG: So what ?
GABRIEL: They recognize him , they 'll remembe him after the job goes down .
RUDY: They wo n't recognize me .
GABRIEL: Why not .
RUDY: Trust me . They wo n't recognize me .
GABRIEL: We 'll trust you when we 're rich . Why not .
RUDY: 'Cause you 're gon na get me a disguise . Rudy locks eyes with Gabriel .
GABRIEL: Bring back some memories , Nick ?
RUDY: More than you know .
GABRIEL: Rather be back in the Mountain ?
RUDY: Might as well be .
GABRIEL: Do n't have Weather Channel in the Mountain , Nick .
RUDY: Get your own room . She approaches instead . Sits beside . Gently
ASHLEY: He said he wanted to talk to you . When he found the letters he said `` when your boyfriend gets out , I wan na talk to him . '' I thought he meant back in Detroit . I thought he meant
RUDY: But you knew why . Knew why , did n't ya . Ashley stands her ground , guilty .
ASHLEY: I thought we 'd have a few more days .
RUDY: For what ? You to talk me into `` helping '' ? What , he promise you a share of the winnings ?
ASHLEY: No !
RUDY: Well , shit , Judas , you shoulda at least gotten that
ASHLEY: Nick ! He wants to know how to ro it , and he 'll leave you alone ! That 's all he wants ! I hate him , Nick you know how
RUDY: So get him outta your life . Get out of Michigan . They got perfume counters in Chicago , do n't they ?
ASHLEY: Not without you .
RUDY: Since when do some trucker pals start thinking big , anyway ?
ASHLEY: They run routes mostly east , retail stuff , warehouses . But Gabriel knows some guys in New York , Miami , guys he helps get guns to Detroit . Hides 'em with his regular loads .
RUDY: He working for them on this one ?
ASHLEY: No . He wants to be working for himself someday .
RUDY: And I 'm his ticket . What 's the last place they took down ?
ASHLEY: What ?
RUDY: Gabriel and his guys . What 's the last place they robbed ? Ashley frowns .
ASHLEY: I do n't think they 've ever robbed anything before . I think they 've just driven guns . Rudy looks at her with new interest .
RUDY: They 've never done a robbery ?
ASHLEY: They 're truck drivers .
RUDY: Then they do need me , do n't they . They really need me
ASHLEY: We 're gon na get out of here , Nick . We 're gon na get out of this
RUDY: We ? What `` we '' Rudy stares at her . The smile gone .
ASHLEY: Nick
RUDY: Get your own room .
ASHLEY: If I 'd told you what he wanted , you 'd have been gone . You 'd have gotten on that bus and stayed on it . And if that 's selfish , I am . If that 's lying , I 'm a liar . But I been dealing with fucked-up brother and his fucked-up friends for a long time , and I was stronger than him then and I 'm stronger than him now . 'Cause he showed up for money . I showed up fo love . And if you 're so ready to make me your enemy then what did you show up for , Nick . What did you really want with me With a fiery look , she strides from the room .
RUDY: They 've never done a robbery Christmas is looking up .
MERLIN: Having romance problems , Romeo ?
RUDY: Not with you .
PUG: Goddamn , Merlin . There any part of the day you do n't smoke ?
MERLIN: There anytime you do n't got a mouthful of shit ?
PUG: Cancer-sucker .
MERLIN: Acid-chewer .
GABRIEL: Take a look what Pug 's bought fo ya .
RUDY: A cowboy . You 're going to send me into an Indian casino disguised as a cowboy . Have you thought this entirely through ?
GABRIEL: Put it on .
RUDY: What kind of half-ass cowboy plays the slots ?
GABRIEL: You do .
RUDY: At least gim me video poker .
GABRIEL: Shut the fuck up . You play what you girlfriend plays . Ashley 's going in with you . You talk to her , otherwise you do n't talk to nobody . You walk the room as many times as you want , ut the second you come out , I want to know the run of the place . Rudy examines his new hair and cowboy gear .
RUDY: Do I get a country-western name ?
GABRIEL: You get recognized , convict , You get a country-western funeral .
RUDY: Y'know what , guys ? I woke up this morning , I got a really lucky feeling going on . I mean it , I 'm feeling that good . I would n't be surprised if I walk in there , pull a handle and hit jackpot . Hell , we would n't even have to
GABRIEL: Get out .
ASHLEY: Get your goddamn hands off me
GABRIEL: You got one hour .
RUDY: I 'm gon na need some money . Gabriel hands a bill .
GABRIEL: Do n't tip .
RUDY: Monster . If we 're working togethe here , we got ta be working together . I ca n't walk in there looking like the Lone Fucking Ranger with ten ucks to throw down . You do n't want me getting noticed , right ? Not getting noticed costs a guy at least a couple hundred .
GABRIEL: Do n't . Lose .
RUDY: You ready to gamble , darlin ' ?
MERLIN: Who 's robbin ' who here , Gabriel
GABRIEL: Get in there and watch 'em . Watch their every fuckin ' move .
JACK BANGS: There 's an S-word I 'd really like to throw in the discussion here , guys , cause it 's a big part of what 's going on . Big element , 'kay ? S-word . It 's a serious issue , serious factor , so I 'm just gon na get it out there , throw it an out there , so we can know it , we can talk about it , we can get things done Snow . Are you with me , guys ? Snow . Big time , fucking , grade-A , God- quality , S-N-O-W-snow .
YOUNG GOVERNOR: We understand you , Mr. Bangs .
JACK BANGS: Capades ? They do n't do it . Mittens ? Outlawed . Why ?
YOUNG GOVERNOR: We 're aware of your position .
JACK BANGS: Because down there this is money . Up here this is heat . You wanted Vegas quality , I brought it to you . You wanted Vegas press , I gave it to you . But guys , please , guys I ca n't get you Vegas profits till one of ya does some spirit dance and does something about this snow . The tribal governors stare him down .
OLD GOVERNOR: We understand the Paiutes ' casino saw a net profit of twelve million dollars last year .
JACK BANGS: The Paiutes , they cook their books .
OLD GOVERNOR: The Waitela reservation made seventeen million .
JACK BANGS: Seventeen ?
OLD GOVERNOR: Perhaps you have researched this , Mr. Bangs . Is the snowfall on ou side of the lake that much greate than the snowfall on theirs ?
JACK BANGS: I 'm bringing in this great showroom act next week ; these three Russian girls , they look like Meryl Streep , they can juggle anything .
YOUNG GOVERNOR: Mr. Bangs .
JACK BANGS: Guys . We 're doing it right , here . $ 5.99 prime rib ? Nobody does that in Michigan . Nobody .
YOUNG GOVERNOR: The tribe is concerned that many of your new ideas are not resulting in any new venues .
JACK BANGS: I 'm putting liquor in the drinks , I 'm giving 10-times odds on craps , I got the girls showing sixteen-percent more skin ! Show me another buffet 's gon na offer you Coke and Pepsi ! Whaddya want me to do ? !
YOUNG GOVERNOR: We want to see our casino making money again , Mr. Bangs . Making money for our community .
OLD GOVERNOR: Like the Paiutes and the Waitela .
YOUNG GOVERNOR: We want you doing the job that we ought you here to do .
ASHLEY: So does it look a lot different ?
RUDY: Here and there . Restaurant , uh , that 's the main expansion . Tables 've been moved around ; the big man 's office , I dunno , might be upstairs now .
ASHLEY: That guy knows you ?
RUDY: Yeah , uh . Mike . That 's Mike .
ASHLEY: Be careful , Nick
RUDY: Couple rum and Cokes , please .
INDIAN BARTENDER: You want that rum and Coke or rum and Pepsi ?
JACK BANGS: I ca n't go back to Vegas , Bear . They 'll fuckin ' kill me , 'kay ? I ca n't go back
BARTENDER: What does the tribe want ?
JACK BANGS: They want gold-paved roads is what they want . Talking 'bout the fuckin ' Paiutes . Fuckin ' Paiutes are on the interstate . Nothing I can do about that , man , I did n't pick the spot for your reservation .
BARTENDER: Neither did we .
JACK BANGS: Yeah , yeah , whatever .
RUDY: Roadside casino ? Jack Bangs , smile falls flat .
JACK BANGS: Well , so how 'd you hear about this place , then . Word-of-mouth ? Mass mailings ? Cable TV ?
RUDY: Prison .
JACK BANGS: Prison ? !
FAT GUY: I just stopped in to use the can .
JACK BANGS: I ca n't go back to Vegas , Bear I ca n't From the slots , we hear a JACKPOT PAYOFF .
MERLIN: What the hell was that about
RUDY: He did n't recognize me . Back off , willya ? He did n't recognize me .
ASHLEY: Hey Nick ! We 're up fifty cents !
RUDY: Heyyyy ! Reaching Ashley , his goatee is dripping
ASHLEY: Nick , what happened
RUDY: There went my damn well , does n't seem like security 's all that switched Ash , shit , this mustache is starting to fall off . I got ta fix this thing drink this for me .
JUMPY: What happened ?
ASHLEY: He started losing his hair .
RUDY: Hundred bucks to wear this jacket
COLLEGE KID: Jesus , man , do n't kill me !
RUDY: Nobody 's killing you , kid . Santa 's giving you a rhinestone jacket and a hundred bucks .
MERLIN: Thanks , sister . How are ya .
WAITRESS: Fuckin ' freezing .
MERLIN: Hell yeah . You work here long ?
WAITRESS: Five years . Since it opened .
MERLIN: How long ago was your makeover ?
WAITRESS: My what ? !
MERLIN: No , the place . The remodeling . moving everything around . The waitress frowns .
WAITRESS: The Tomahawk 's looked the same since I started , mister . Only the losers change .
RUDY: GO ! GO !
GABRIEL: Where the hell 's he going ?
PUG: Where the hell 's your sister ?
GABRIEL: Get him !
COLLEGE KID: Oh man . It 's your jacket , is n't it
JUMPY: Trouble .
RUDY: MEDIUM RARE ? ! You call this MEDIUM
GABRIEL: Where the HELL did he go ?
MERLIN: Monster . There never was a structure change . This place was built the same from day one .
PUG: That motherfucker
MERLIN: And Monster he was talking with the casino manager . Nick was talking to him . Gabriel darkens .
GABRIEL: Get . Him . Back .
MERLIN: You keep running , Nick ! Keep running now ! Ca n't keep warm if you do n't keep running ! We 'll just be right ack here keeping track of you trail .
ASHLEY: No ! ! !
RUDY: That 's for reading her mail . He extends a hand to Ashley
ASHLEY: Nick , the ice is
RUDY: Get to the bridge !
GABRIEL: At the rate you 're going , Nick I 'm gon na have a hard time eve considering you family .
RUDY: I-I-I-I have n-n-no g-g-gifts to br- -bring , pa rum-p-p-p-p-p pum-pum-pum . N-n-no treasures fo the k-k-k king .
MERLIN: Game room 's closed .
GABRIEL: A for effort , Nick , honestly , A fo effort and an honorary degree . I 'm surprised you never escaped from the Mountain .
RUDY: never tried
GABRIEL: Nick , here 's what we 're gon na do . In the spirit of the season , I 'm going to give you a chance . I understand you 're unhappy . Right outta the lockup , here against your will , it 's the holidays and there 's reruns on
RUDY: ttt..tt two out of three ?
GABRIEL: What 'd you tell that casino manager ?
RUDY: Nnn nothing
GABRIEL: You were talking to him ! What 'd you tell him ! ?
RUDY: Nothing I promise-nothing
RUDY: NO !
GABRIEL: I been driving rigs a long time , Nick . Four , five million miles of oad . Worked for people who would n't keep me on less I was driving fifteen hours a day . Tell 'em I needed sleep , I needed rest , shit , they 'll hire someone else
RUDY: No , Gabriel no
GABRIEL: Nick . I been trying to hit you .
ASHLEY: Nick ! Jesus , Nick
MERLIN: Pug .
ASHLEY: Nick , oh my God , what 'd he do to you ? What 'd he do ?
RUDY: He had some points to make
ASHLEY: Jesus Christ , stay here , do n't move , stay right here
RUDY: All I wanted was to make it home for a little of Dad 's turkey , and Mom 's stuffing Aunt Lisbeth 's acorn gravy Aunt Mary 's cranberry uns
ASHLEY: We 'll get there , baby we 'll get there
RUDY: Have n't had cranberry buns in five whole years
ASHLEY: Shh , now . Rest now . Two years , Nick . You have n't had cranberry buns in two years .
RUDY: You saved me .
ASHLEY: I saved you because I love you , Nick . Why 'd you save me ?
RUDY: Guy I was in with car thief I used to read your letters to him . I know they were private I know , ut you spend twenty-four hours a day with somebody , you got ta talk , y'know ? You got ta share . Or the room gets even smaller . And sometimes , I 'd be reading them , and he 'd close his eyes , get a smile on his face and I 'd know somewhere inside he was pretending you were writing to him He 'd see your face , your pictures on the wall Some nights I think he fell in love with you , too . Rudy touches a hand to her hair .
ASHLEY: I 'm sorry , Nick I 'm so sorry
RUDY: Do n't say my name
ASHLEY: I love you , Nick
RUDY: Ash . Do n't say it . Do n't say my name .
ASHLEY: I love you
RUDY: They 'll have guns .
ASHLEY: What ?
RUDY: You said they 've run guns , in thei trucks . So they 'll have guns . To do this robbery . They 'll have serious guns .
ASHLEY: I do n't know
RUDY: We 'll need one .
ASHLEY: Nick , what are you talking about ?
RUDY: We need to find a way to make me part of it .
ASHLEY: Part of with them ? Rudy meets her eyes .
RUDY: If we 're helping them with thei obbery , we 're gon na be doing more than just walking away . Like that 's some Christmas bonus . He nods , scheming the way he 's always known .
PUG: Knew a guy in Joliet , smoked ten packs a day like you . His lungs got so black they could n't find 'em with an x-ray .
MERLIN: That right ? Shit . I used to run rigs for a guy loved your chaw there . Shit rotted out his tongue , had to uild him one outta silicon so the poor boy could talk . You ever see a motherfucker with a silicon fucking tongue ?
PUG: Hell . The guy from Joliet , those lack-ass lungs were the least of his problems . Got so much smoke in him his lungs could n't even hold it . Got into his system , man . Into his lood . Coming out his ears , man , coming out his eyes . Guy 'd be walking the row , smoke 'd be puffing out his skin .
MERLIN: This trucker ? Met a girl in a ba one night , she did n't know his situation . He 's drunk , she 's drunk , they get to mackin ' hot and heavy and the woman swallows it . His tongue . Sucks it right down .
PUG: My guy would walk into a room , set off the goddamn sprinklers .
MERLIN: His lips went next . You ever see some silicon-fucking-lips ?
GABRIEL: Start singing .
RUDY: I have no gifts to bring , pa-rumpum- pum-pum
GABRIEL: Sing it in pictures , Nick .
RUDY: What you got ta worry about first is the guards . Place does n't look much icher than when I worked there , so let 's figure you 're gon na have to deal with ten of 'em . There 'll be two on the floor , walking the room , that leaves eight up above . Eyes in the sky . They see something up , they 're the ones who 'll hit the silent alarm and you 're fucked .
MERLIN: How do we take them out ?
RUDY: You got ta get someone upstairs .
MERLIN: How do we do that ?
RUDY: Across from blackjack , there 's a security doorway . Keypad access .
GABRIEL: What 's the code ?
RUDY: Uh they change it every month . I would n't know . If there 's trouble on the floor , you 'll get security coming through . what you got ta do , is get inside that doorway once they do . You got ta draw 'em out .
PUG: Without having them hit the alarms .
RUDY: I got an idea on that one . Once you 're up there , you got ta hold those guards down till some backup can get there . There 's a security camera room that videotapes everything . You 've got ta destroy every last one of those tapes .
MERLIN: What about the money ?
RUDY: You lock down security , you move ehind the cage . You hit the Count Room . There 'll be a guy in there but he 's got no guns ; room 's accessed by another code . Cashiers 'll know it . They 'll have alarms .
JUMPY: What about the Powwow Safe ?
RUDY: What ?
JUMPY: The Powwow Safe . The secret safe . You said the manager 's got a safe in his office where he hides skim money .
RUDY: Oh . Right . Yeah . That 's , uh upstairs . Uh . Here . Powwow Safe .
GABRIEL: We got five . Putting Ashley outside .
RUDY: You need six . Gabriel eyes him darkly .
GABRIEL: NO .
RUDY: You go in with five , you 're eithe leaving an alarm free or an exit free . Someone hits an alarm , you 're fucked . Someone gets to a phone , gets outside , 'cross the street , whatever , you 're fucked . You need six . Six is me .
GABRIEL: No .
RUDY: You guys get caught , I go away fo good . I got an interest in making sure you do n't . You need a sixth man covering an exit . What 're you gon na do about it .
ASHLEY: Yeah . What 're you gon na do about it .
GABRIEL: I want a map of that security level . Every room , every guard , every thing .
RUDY: Six men means six guns .
GABRIEL: No way .
RUDY: I 'm no threat without a gun .
GABRIEL: No , you 're not .
RUDY: There 'll be people in that casino . I ca n't keep them from leaving if I do n't get a gun . I do n't need bullets , Monster but I got ta be a threat .
ASHLEY: What 's the matter , Gabriel ? This is what you wanted him for , is n't it ? Gabriel 's eyes do n't leave Rudy 's .
GABRIEL: No gun .
RUDY: Well . What you guys have to plan out , then is how you 're going to get to that cage and that security level before anybody realizes anything 's wrong . Running in with ski masks and bullets flying ai n't gon na do it .
GABRIEL: That part , Nick was planned out the day I read your letters .
RUDY: What . We all gon na dress up like cowboys ?
GABRIEL: Not cowboys , Nick . Not cowboys . Gabriel smiles .
RUDY: You got ta be kidding me .
GABRIEL: 'T is the season , convict .
RUDY: What , we walking in there and delivering toys ?
MERLIN: Hell yeah .
ASHLEY: He wants to see your map .
RUDY: I 'm almost done .
ASHLEY: He says he wants it now .
RUDY: If he wanted a photographic memory , he shoulda kidnapped one . I 'm working on it here .
ASHLEY: How are we gon na do this , Nick ?
RUDY: You 're the getaway girl . The money 's gon na get to you eventually . Gon na e my job to be the guy who walks outta there with it . But I ca n't do that without a gun . Any luck talking to him ?
ASHLEY: Bullets or no bullets , he wo n't do it .
RUDY: Is there any way you could get into his truck ?
ASHLEY: No .
RUDY: We need a gun , Ash . We need a gun
ASHLEY: They all are . Football 's on .
RUDY: Keep 'em there for a little while .
ASHLEY: and he 's saying `` We 're not gon na help him just to walk away . If we 're gon na help him we 're gon na get it all She splashes again . Taunting
GABRIEL: He wants the money .
ASHLEY: No , baby . He wants me .
GABRIEL: whoever she is .
ASHLEY: Nick Mason 's gon na help us more than we ever dreamed .
GABRIEL: All those letters are about to pay off , baby all those letters
ASHLEY: To all those cons
GABRIEL: Searching for a money man
ASHLEY: We musta written what , twenty of 'em ? And they were before this guy . One , two letters apiece , ten to the acetrack guy in Leavenworth
GABRIEL: till he fucked his parole
ASHLEY: plus the forty to Mason how many letters is that ?
GABRIEL: That 's a book , baby . That 's a book of love .
ASHLEY: One more day , baby . One more day to Christmas .
GABRIEL: I 've been doing good , though .
ASHLEY: Did n't have to hit me so fucking hard . Did n't have to throw me outta the goddamn truck .
GABRIEL: Did n't have to send me down a fucking mountain .
ASHLEY: What , he should see me help you catch him ?
GABRIEL: Y'know something , baby ? If you were my sister ? I 'd still want to wake up Christmas morning with you
ASHLEY: Mmm , baby . And I 'd still want to be the tinsel round your tree
RUDY: Here 's my present to you , truck drivers
JUMPY: With his girlfriend . Making up fo `` Nick '' time . I 'm going down to the ar , you want something ?
MERLIN: Get me a brew . I 'm gon na check on our convict .
RUDY: Catch , dammit , catch ! Like riding a ike , it 's like riding a bike ! But there 's nothing . The engine wo n't start .
MERLIN: My room .
RUDY: Hey .
ASHLEY: Merry Christmas-Eve , my love . My love , my love . Merry Christmas-Eve Ashley closes her eyes . With a smile .
GABRIEL: Checking out .
ASHLEY: Gabriel !
GABRIEL: That 's for the hundred bucks worth of pay-per-view . And that 's for the two hundred you took outta your minibar .
RUDY: You guys were paying for the room , I just figured
GABRIEL: You wanted a weapon , convict ? You got one .
ASHLEY: Where should we go , Nick ? When we 're gone from here where should we go
RUDY: This time right now Dad 's stacking wood out back , getting ready fo tomorrow . Little blaze in the fireplace . Mom 's setting out the good silver , hanging her cinammon sticks , up in the doorways . Getting out her scratchy old records singing along
ASHLEY: We go together , Nick . Wherever we go together . Remember ?
RUDY: Well . I 'm going home .
JACK BANGS: And all through the house not a creature was stirring Why do n't you go ahead and send most of your guys home , Ed .
SECURITY BOSS: Thanks , Jack . Merry X-mas .
JACK BANGS: Hell . Nobody even comes here to cheat
GABRIEL: Go .
RUDY: Hey Jumpy , I want to ask you something . You have any problem with the fact that we 're on our way to take millions of dollars from an Indian casino ? The Native American considers . As they walk
JUMPY: Nick . It 's true that Indian gaming 's gone a long way toward restoring wealth and pride to communities who 've een economically isolated and enslaved for centuries . Stronge infrastructure , better schools , highe employment they 're all the results of reservation casino success stories . Still , many natives believe that these are temples to a godless materialism and greed that will only infect the souls of indigenous peoples until their love of money has destroyed the spiritual values thei ancestors died to protect and thei homelands have become no different from any United States suburb , satellite city or industrial park . Destroying the Indian legacy once and for all and leaving behind a nation of selfish , angry natives , of which I , it 's true , am one as they hit the Tomahawk 's doors
RUDY: Hey-hey , egg nog for everybody !
SECURITY BOSS: How you gentlemen doing tonight ?
RUDY: We 're out of work tonight , that 's how ! Christmas Eve ! We 're out of work !
JUMPY: Hi , Santa Claus , how are you . He 's with Sears , I 'm with Wal-Mart , twas the season
RUDY: We 're all outta gifts , boys and girls , ut we got charitable donations !
JUMPY: bunch of us got together for the union party . Hey , how late are you open ?
SECURITY BOSS: All night and all day .
RUDY: I got wampum for the Cocktail Waitress Civil Defense Fund ! Are there any epresentatives here present ?
WAITRESS: What can I get ya , Santa ?
RUDY: Santa drinks American beer .
SECURITY BOSS: What 's your game , guys ?
JUMPY: Blackjack . Got a buddy from Woolworth 's out parking the sleigh . The Security Boss stares him down . Then
SECURITY BOSS: Good luck , gentlemen .
ASHLEY: Three minutes .
RUDY: That was my card , pop ! My card ! You hit fo my card !
OLD TIMER: I sorry , Mister
RUDY: That was my king !
OLD TIMER: Wellsorry
JUMPY: How are you tonight ?
WAITRESS: Fuckin ' freezing . What can I get ya , Santa ?
JUMPY: Jack and Coke .
WAITRESS: Want that Jack and Coke or Jack and Pepsi ?
JUMPY: Woolworth 's !
GABRIEL: Hey , Sears ! Hey , Wal-Mart !
JUMPY: Saved you a seat , man . Get in on a hand here !
RUDY: Careful . Watch out for this guy .
WAITRESS: What can I get ya , Santa ?
GABRIEL: American beer .
RUDY: POP ! That was My card !
OLD TIMER: But I had a five
RUDY: You 're hitting for MY cards !
ASHLEY: Go .
JUMPY: Could Fat-Man-With-Flying-Horse get some quarters , please ?
GABRIEL: Be back , Wal-Mart . Watch my bank .
RUDY: That is my card , guy . My card .
DEALER: He hit , mister .
RUDY: He did n't hit . You did n't hit . You 're not hitting .
OLD TIMER: But you do n't even know what it is !
VIDEO GUARD: There 's two more coming .
JACK BANGS: Hell , there we go . That 's the spirit .
SECURITY BOSS: Jack ? Is there a union for department store Santas ?
RUDY: Switch seats with me .
OLD TIMER: What ? No
RUDY: You 're taking my money . Switch seats with me . Switch seats with me if you 're not taking my money
OLD TIMER: I 'm ninety-two years old
RUDY: Then get yourself another table ! You 're hitting Santa 's cards and you 're taking Santa 's money !
OLD TIMER: There is no other table
RUDY: THEY 'LL OPEN ONE !
SECURITY BOSS: Help them down there ! HELP them !
JUMPY: Step BACK from the desks !
MERLIN: Hold it right there , Nick . Your squirt gun 's all you need .
RUDY: Sorry , guys . But what the hell were you doing here an Christmas Eve anyway .
JACK BANGS: No not here please mister
GABRIEL: Show 's over .
RUDY: Get down and stay down , and you 're gon na be fine . Just do n't do anything . My friends are disturbed
PUG: What 's the security code to the Count Room ?
CASHIER #1: Security code ? What security code ? You just use a key !
CASHIER #1: Who 's Nick ? !
MERLIN: You said no GUNS in there ! NO GUNS !
RUDY: Yeah . That 's love .
ASHLEY: MOVE , MOVE , MOVE !
MERLIN: You knew there were guns in here !
RUDY: Merlin , I did n't know
MERLIN: You got Pug killed ! You tried to get ME killed ! You just lost your Get- Outta-Jail-Free
RUDY: I promise you , I did n't know ! As Merlin puts a gun to Rudyls head
JACK BANGS: I ca n't go back to Vegas I ca n't go back
GABRIEL: I told you not to fuck us with that map , Nick . I told you not to , and you did . How am I s'posed to keep my promises now ? How 's she s'posed to keep hers ? He kisses her hard . Sloppy . Grins . Then points to Jack Bangs
JACK BANGS: I do n't know what you 're
JACK BANGS: What Powwow
GABRIEL: The Powwow Safe where you steal you money ! Where you cheat your Indians !
JACK BANGS: I do n't steal any
GABRIEL: We KNOW about the Powwow Safe ! We KNOW it 's in here ! We KNOW how you work ! Because WE know who 's worked for you ! Remember a guy named Nick Mason ! ? A security guard named Nick Mason ! ?
JACK BANGS: Nick Mason ? Jack Bangs stares at Rudy . Rudy stares back .
GABRIEL: Where is he ? ! Where is he ? !
JACK BANGS: He 's not Nick Mason The smile fades from Gabriel 's face .
RUDY: Fucked the wrong guy , Ashley . Story of your life .
ASHLEY: You you YOU
RUDY: We still gon na spend Christmas together ?
GABRIEL: You are lucky , convict . You 're spending Christmas with the birthday oy himself
RUDY: Hey ! HEY ! THERE IS A POWWOW SAFE ! Gabriel hesitates . Does n't fire .
GABRIEL: Open it .
JACK BANGS: I ca n't go back to Vegas
GABRIEL: OPEN IT ! ! !
RUDY: Pow . Wow . And Jack Bangs opens it
GABRIEL: GO ! ! !
MERLIN: Hell . I 'm gon na take pleasure in this
RUDY: Me too .
JACK BANGS: That 's why they call it gambling .
ASHLEY: Your turn . Rudy shuts his eyes for the end .
GABRIEL: With the wrong fucking guy ! We took the place down with the wrong fucking guy ! Is that Christmas ? ! Huh ? ! Is that Christmas ? !
RUDY: Was it your plan , Monster ? Or was it hers . Gabriel smiles at him .
GABRIEL: She told me 'bout the convict magazines . Had to figure there 'd be some boys in the pen with some useful knowledge . With nobody to talk to . Nobody to listen . So we stocked up on stationery .
RUDY: I saved your life .
ASHLEY: You should n't have .
RUDY: He did love you , you know . Nick . He did love you .
ASHLEY: Who would n't . So cold . But Rudy does n't pause .
RUDY: Maybe this is where you wanted him , Ashley . At the bottom of a ravine , dead as ice with a burnt-up heart . Maybe . But it did n't happen . 'Cause what you did for him was make him the happiest held ever been . You showed him hope and taught him mercy . And he died a peaceful man . You wanted to destroy some convict and all you did was save his soul . Remembe that . Love your money and remembe that .
ASHLEY: Merry Christmas , Rudy .
RUDY: I 'm glad it was me .
ASHLEY: Merry Christmas .
GABRIEL: Get in the car .
RUDY: How 'd you know my name He turns back to Ashley .
ASHLEY: What ?
RUDY: Rudy . How 'd you know my name ?
ASHLEY: What are you talking about ?
RUDY: You said Merry Christmas , Rudy .
ASHLEY: I you told me your name was Rudy . You told me a million times , back in the truck , telling me you were n't Nick
RUDY: No
ASHLEY: You were screaming you were n't Nick ! And we just did n't fucking believe you !
RUDY: But I never said Rudy .
ASHLEY: You said it a million times !
RUDY: I never told you my name . He stares her down . Then stares at Gabriel .
GABRIEL: Ash ?
RUDY: How 'd you know my name was Rudy .
GABRIEL: Ash ?
RUDY: How 'd you know my name .
ASHLEY: Men .
RUDY: Where is he . A silence . No one moves .
NICK: Merry Christmas , Rudy .
ASHLEY: I missed you too , Nicky baby .
NICK: Oh , hey . Have you two been properly introduced ? Sweetness , this is Rudy Duncan , I did almost a year with him in the Mountain . Read him all you letters , talked about you all the time , made him feel like he really knew you . My friend wantcha to meet Millie Bobek . 'Member Millie Bobek , dontcha ? My girlfriend fore I went in ? Worked at that bar in Motor City , where I manslaughtered that guy ? Hell . Did n't talk about her much once the Ashley letters started coming , I guess . Rudy does n't notice it 's started to snow .
RUDY: She set them up . All of them .
NICK: Why not have her pretend to find me ? Pretend to write me and reel me in ? Tell her new trucker-man she 'd pose as some sister of his named Ashley ?
RUDY: And you set me up .
NICK: Always wanted to rob that casino , Rudy . Way back when I worked there . What better way than to get some guys to rob it for me .
RUDY: How 'd you know I 'd do it .
NICK: Do what ?
RUDY: Walk outta there and tell her I was you . Nick looks back at Ashley .
NICK: Because every time I read her letters , Rudy you listened . Keep your gun on him .
RUDY: Talked about the old man 's weapons stash , probably forgot I 'd remembe
NICK: Hm . Well . They 'd have killed you if you were n't me , Rudy . We knew you 'd start convincing 'em soon enough . Nick slams the car door , locking Rudy in .
RUDY: You gave them me .
NICK: I gave them me . Said some nice things about me , Rudy . I appreciate it . But do n't worry . I do love her . And she loves me . You had that right all along .
ASHLEY: NOOOOOOO ! ! !
RUDY: RULE TWO !
NICK: Rudy help me Rudy
MOTHER: Rudy ? Rudy ?
FATHER: Son ? Is is that you ?
THE END: < /pre
WHITTLESLEY: Faster ! We wo n't make it. < /i
DRIVER: You want to die ? < /i
WHITTLESLEY: Do you ? < /i
FRANCO: American ?
WHITTLESLEY: Yes . Thank Christ somebody speaks English . I 'm Dr. John Whittlesley . You have some crates of mine on oard . They were shipped by mistake to the Natural History Museum . We have to get them off the boat .
FRANCO: You have I.D . ?
WHITTLESLEY: No . Let me explain . I was on an expedition for the museum on the Upper Xingu . Something horrible happened . I 'm the only one who got out alive . I lost everything , my I.D. , everything . I have to make sure no one else dies . The crates , the crates were sent out before we knew . There 's something unspeakable inside . If your boat leaves harbo with those crates on board , I ca n't e responsible . My God , if they each New York
FRANCO: Loco .
WHITTLESLEY: No ! I 'm not crazy ! As God is my witness , I 'm telling the truth .
PENDERGAST: Any of your men go on board ?
MRS. BEASLEY: Do n't run , children ! Stay with you partner and do not run ! If anyone uns they will be sent back to the us !
GUARD: Morning , Dr. Green .
MARGO: Morning Joe . Beautiful day .
HENRY: You work here ?
MARGO: Yes , I do .
HENRY: What do you do ?
MARGO: I 'm an Evolutionary Biologist . What do you do ?
HENRY: Nothing . I 'm in third grade . What 's a revolutionary what ch ' a ma ' callit ?
MARGO: Evolutionary Biologist . I study how life on earth evolved over millions of years .
HENRY: Way cool . Then you know where the dinosaurs are .
MARGO: Fourth floor , West wing , but stay with your class .
CUTHBERT: I 'm on my way to get the last piece out of storage right now .
MARGO: I 'd wish you luck but I 'm not superstitious .
CUTHBERT: You will be after tomorrow night .
BEAUREGARD: I 'm sorry , sir . You okay ?
CUTHBERT: Someone broke into this room .
BEAUREGARD: Anything missin ' ?
CUTHBERT: Does n't look like it . We 're damned lucky . This statue is priceless .
BEAUREGARD: Looks like the curse is still at work .
CUTHBERT: The claws are sharp I must have cut myself . Better move these crates to the secure storage area where they 'll be safe .
BEAUREGARD: Do n't know if it 'll do any good , Mr. Cuthbert .
CUTHBERT: Why not ?
BEAUREGARD: No one broke into this room , sir . Someone broke out . That lock was torn off from the inside .
KAWAKITA: Third from the end ! Right shoulder . Aleut , provenance unknown .
MARGO: But at what a price .
KAWAKITA: Margo , you have n't heard ?
MARGO: What ?
KAWAKITA: Frock 's been fired . Margo straightens , stunned .
MARGO: That 's impossible .
KAWAKITA: I 'm sorry to be the bearer of bad tidings , but you know me . Telegraph . Telephone . Tell Kawakita . I got the definitive word from Cuthbert 's secretary . This is Dr. Frock 's last week . Margo is already out the door .
DR. FROCK: Hello , Margo . Sorry about the mess .
MARGO: Is it true ? Greg said you 'd been fired .
FROCK: Yes . Bit of a shock . But as Cuthbert so tactfully put it , the museum needs new blood . And since I 've been here since the Mesozoic Era
MARGO: I do n't believe it .
FROCK: Now Margo , do n't overreact . Cuthbert has to cut costs somehow . My leaving makes perfect sense . This is n't exactly early retirement . I 've overstayed the party a bit .
MARGO: We ca n't do without you . You 're one of the foremost authorities on primitive pharmacology . You 're practically an institution around here .
FROCK: That , apparently , is the problem . I 'm yesterday 's news . Who needs a Curator of Plant Biology in a museum with one exhibit on plants ? Monsters and dinosaurs , cannibals and shamans are the new currency of the realm .
MARGO: `` Phyletic Transformation and the Tertiary Fern Spike '' is not going anywhere . I 'll talk to Cuthbert and put a stop to this right now .
FROCK: Please . Do n't humiliate me further .
MARGO: Let me help . I can take care of everything .
FROCK: No , Margo . This is one problem you ca n't solve . You have to stay out of it . The fact is , I want to retire .
MARGO: How can you say that ? You know it 's not true .
FROCK: Yes it is . I 'm tired and I 'm no longer needed
MARGO: My work on fossil intermediates would be crippled without you .
FROCK: With all due respect , dear , that 's ull . You dance rings around me with your new technology . You 've left me in the dust .
MARGO: Your work is highly relevant . What about your display on Primitive Pharmacology ? Cuthbert told me himself he was going to feature it prominently in the Superstition Exhibit .
FROCK: Healing plant use among the Ki tribe of Bechuanaland has been cancelled to make room for Tibetan Erotic Art .
MARGO: I 'm not giving up .
FROCK: You must .
MARGO: You are this museum . It wo n't be the same without you .
FROCK: Everyone needs a change of scenery . I 've been rolling down these halls for forty-odd years . That 's quite enough .
HENRY: Mrs. Beasley , it 's almost time to go and we still have n't seen the dinosaurs !
BEASLEY: If you ask me about the dinosaurs once more , I'II strangle you both !
LARRY: This room sucks .
HENRY: She 's never going to take us to see the dinosaurs . That lady said they were on the fourth floor .
LARRY: Let 's ditch and find them ourselves .
HENRY: Check out this one . It can walk up walls .
LARRY: We 're not supposed to go back there .
HENRY: Chicken . This is a great short cut .
LARRY: I do n't want to go this way .
HENRY: Do n't be a wuss . Come on .
LARRY: Henry , come back !
HENRY: Quiet !
LARRY: What is it ?
HENRY: I do n't know . But I think it 's bad .
COP: ID .
MARGO: What 's going on ?
COP: All employees are to go to the IMAX oom for a briefing , Dr. Green .
COP ONE: What was that ? Six ?
COP TWO: Lost count .
PENDERGAST: Could you please take me to the officer in charge ?
D'AGOSTA: Do n't touch anything until the S.O.C . has finished with those stairs . Keep everyone clear of the perimeter . I do n't want any contamination . There 's an incredible amount of blood evidence down here . We need more light . Where 's the photographer ? Tell him to quit eating donuts , I need him .
PENDERGAST: Special Agent Pendergast . FBI .
D'AGOSTA: Vince D'Agosta . Am I out ?
PENDERGAST: Not at all . I think we may be working on the same case . If so , I could use your help .
D'AGOSTA: What 's left of it .
PENDERGAST: Mind if I have a look ?
D'AGOSTA: We need light in here , stat .
PENDERGAST: Where 's the head ?
D'AGOSTA: Careful . That mess on the ground is ains .
PENDERGAST: Whose footprints ?
D'AGOSTA: Night watchman who found the body . Sweet old man . Been tossing his cookies for over an hour . Not a likely suspect .
PENDERGAST: Yes , I 'd say we 're definitely working on the same case .
MARGO: Dr. Frock , I just saw a man back there who 'd been wading in blood .
KAWAKITA: Someone 's been murdered . Not shot , strangled or stabbed , either . Torn limb from limb . There 's talk of a psychotic killer or even an animal .
FROCK: For heaven 's sake , Greg , someone 's een killed . Look , it 's Cuthbert . Let 's hear what really happened .
CUTHBERT: This has been a tragic and upsetting morning . I have terrible news for us all . A member of our security force has been found murdered . The police have just informed me it was Daniel Beauregard . Quiet . Please . With the help of ou head of security , Mr. Ippolito the museum has been secured .
IPPOLITO: The party for the opening of the Superstition Exhibit I imagine in the light of what 's happened it will e pushed back .
CUTHBERT: No action has been taken yet . The opening of the exhibit is crucial to the financial health of this museum . So for now , we expect that the Superstition Exhibit will open on schedule , tomorrow night .
MARGO: That Cuthbert . What a piece of work . Someone 's dead and all he cares about is his Superstition Exhibit .
FROCK: Cuthbert 's counting on the exhibition 's success . The museum is in debt . Contributions and public funding have dried up . Admissions no longer cover overhead . The last big infusion of cash we had was the King Tut exhibit . Cuthbert was hired to get us out of the red . If the Superstition Exhibit is n't lucrative , he 'll have to start auctioning off some of these gems .
KAWAKITA: With all this bad publicity , it 's no wonder he looks like that .
FROCK: Ian . Are you okay ?
CUTHBERT: Beauregard . I ca n't believe it . I may have been the last one to see him alive . He was with me just yesterday , when I got out the statue of Mbwun .
MARGO: Mbwun .
KAWAKITA: What 's that ?
MARGO: Warrior deity of the Kothoga , an extinct South American tribe . Dr. John Whittlesley led an expedition that found the only known epresentation of Mbwun . The statue is said to carry a curse . Every member of Whittlesley 's expedition died .
CUTHBERT: I got the relic out yesterday to put on display . Beauregard was there . The crates had been broken into and the contents were strewn about . But nothing was missing . It was downright weird . We joked that it was the curse of Mbwun . I 'm not laughing now .
FROCK: Come , Ian . We all know you 're superstitious . But you 're among scientists here . We deal in facts . That statue had nothing to do with what happened to Beauregard .
CUTHBERT: All I know is , everyone who has come in contact with that relic , is dead .
D'AGOSTA: Get a life .
PENDERGAST: An original Roger Tory Peterson of a Red-Breasted Merganser . Amazing . I have a copy of this in my office at home .
D'AGOSTA: Ca n't really focus on birds at the moment , Pendergast . I 'm tryin ' to keep my breakfast down .
PENDERGAST: In this violent world , I believe the only way to stay sane is to take time to notice beautiful things .
D'AGOSTA: I drink . After hours of course . On duty , I smoke . Do you mind ?
PENDERGAST: Not at all . I enjoy the smell of a good cigar .
D'AGOSTA: Then you wo n't like this one . It 's a piece of shit .
PENDERGAST: Lieutenant
D'AGOSTA: Call me Vince .
PENDERGAST: Did you read about a boat that washed up outside of New Orleans about four months ago ? Twelve bodies on board .
D'AGOSTA: Who did n't ? Big news . Out of Brazil , was n't it ?
PENDERGAST: Yes . That 's my case . Now it 's yours . All the corpses were badly mutilated in a very particular way . Decapitated . Brains extracted . Limbs torn to shreds . It looked like the work of a large animal , but there was no sign of an animal on board .
D'AGOSTA: So the method of death is the only connection ?
PENDERGAST: No . There 's more . There were crates from this museum in the hold of the oat . BAILEY enters , interrupts .
BAILEY: Uh , Vince . Sorry . This wo n't wait .
D'AGOSTA: It better be good .
BAILEY: There are a couple of kids who were lost yesterday near the site of the murder . Claimed they saw a monster . They 're pretty determined to tell you their story . You want to see them ?
D'AGOSTA: No .
PENDERGAST: If you do n't mind , this could be important .
D'AGOSTA: You 're kidding .
PENDERGAST: Unfortunately , no .
D'AGOSTA: Hi . I 'm Lieutenant D'Agosta . You can call me Vince . This is Special Agent Pendergast . You can call him Special Agent Pendergast .
BEASLEY: This is Henry Weiss and Larry Bowers .
D'AGOSTA: So Tell us about this monster .
LARRY: We were lost and trying to find a short cut to the dino Henry elbows him hard . Larry shuts up .
HENRY: We were just lost , okay ? And we went down this curvy staircase . At the ottom was a big shadow .
LARRY: Big as a house .
HENRY: Not that big .
LARRY: Well almost . Depends which house . It smelled like old hamburger , and it made this weird noise .
HENRY: Like this .
LARRY: It had a long tongue , teeth this big and yellow eyes .
HENRY: They were green eyes and they were slit like a lizard 's .
LARRY: They were yellow !
HENRY: You 're color blind .
BEASLEY: Boys , please ! These two get in a lot of mischief and they tell some amazing whoppers .
D'AGOSTA: I can see that .
HENRY: This is n't a whopper ! It 's the truth .
PENDERGAST: How did you get away ?
HENRY: We ran and screamed and stuff . And we got through a little door just in time . There was a guard there and he went back to check .
PENDERGAST: A guard ? Do you remember his name ?
LARRY: He was wearing one of those I.D . adges . His name was Bo something .
D'AGOSTA: Beauregard ?
LARRY: Yeah .
D'AGOSTA: I 've got to admit , that was a damn sight better than `` the dog ate my homework '' .
PENDERGAST: How do you explain the part about Beauregard ?
D'AGOSTA: They heard the victim 's name and wove him into their story . Nice touch .
PENDERGAST: I believed them . D'Agosta stops , stunned .
D'AGOSTA: You think what we 've got here is a monster as big as a house that smells like hamburger ?
PENDERGAST: No . I think what we 've got here is a psychotic killer wielding some kind of unusual weapon who wants us to elieve he 's a monster .
D'AGOSTA: Oh .
DR. ZIEWZIC: You 're late , Vince .
D'AGOSTA: Sorry Dr. Ziewzic . This is Special Agent Pendergast . Pendergast , Dr. Ziewzic . She runs the best chop shop in New York .
PENDERGAST: We 've met . The Hacksaw Murders . '89 .
DR. ZIEWZIC: Oh yes ! Who could forget . Afterwards you sent me that amazing case of Chateau Lafitte .
PENDERGAST: I hope you liked it .
DR. ZIEWZIC: Lovely bouquet . After our last case , Vince took me out for a draft beer . As I recall we split the check .
D'AGOSTA: It 's been one of those days .
DR. ZIEWZIC: Shall we get down to it , then ?
DR. GROSS: A bite . Ziewzic turns to Pendergast .
DR. ZIEWZIC: What are we talking about here ?
PENDERGAST: Someone who makes the Hacksaw Murderer look like Mother Teresa .
DR. ZIEWZIC: Right . The entire brain appears to have een extracted . May I see it , please ?
PENDERGAST: The thalamus and the hypothalamus , perhaps ?
DR. ZIEWZIC: Yes . Two organs the size of a walnut have been removed with what looks like surgical precision .
D'AGOSTA: What happened to them ?
PENDERGAST: If you do n't mind a suggestion , you might try a saliva test .
D'AGOSTA: Saliva test ? You mean , you think someone ate part of the brain ?
PENDERGAST: Correct .
DR. ZWIEZIC: Okay . One saliva test . Now let 's look at these lacerations . They start wide and then converge .
D'AGOSTA: Long fingernails ? Scratches ?
DR. ZWIEZIC: Too extreme . Perhaps some kind of weapon . I 'm now probing the wound and there 's a piece of foreign material deep in the muscle , lodged on a rib . Photograph .
D'AGOSTA: Sweet Jesus .
DR. ZWIEZIC: It 's a claw . The photographer 's flash goes off .
D'AGOSTA: I do n't like animals . Never have . Dog bit me when I was little . Afte that I gave up on pets . Animals are irrational . Give me a psychotic killer any day . If there 's one thing that makes me queasy it 's being part of a food chain . My first case as a ookie , two brothers climbed a fence at the zoo . It was late August . Ove ninety . The polar bear was inside his cave . Kids did n't know he was in there . All they saw was the pool . They got to swimming and splashing . The noise woke up the bear . By the time I arrived , both little boys were in pieces . The bear was dragging one kid around by the foot . I can still hear the mothe screaming
PENDERGAST: This is n't an animal , Vince . I 've een on this case four months , emember ? I 've learned a few things .
D'AGOSTA: You 've been holding out on me Pendergast . You have a suspect capable of this ? Pendergast looks over , nods quietly .
PENDERGAST: Let me tell you about it , Vince .
KAWAKITA: Before eight ? You must be joking . She 's in the physical anthro la making up for lost time . Pendergast nods his thanks .
PENDERGAST: Dr. Green ?
MARGO: An invention of mine . It 's a computer program designed to describe the characteristics of a given species from a reading of its DNA . I call it the Genetic Sequence Extrapolator .
PENDERGAST: How does it work ?
MARGO: With a DNA analysis from a fossil you can use this program to tell the species and sex of the animal , whether it was nocturnal , what it ate , how it hunted , how big it was You are n't here for a lesson in DNA .
PENDERGAST: No . I came to talk about Dr. John Whittlesley .
MARGO: Somehow , when all this happened I knew it would come back to John . Is he really dead ?
PENDERGAST: Maybe not .
MARGO: If he were alive he 'd have contacted me .
PENDERGAST: You have time to talk ?
MARGO: And John ?
PENDERGAST: Disappeared . His body was n't among the victims .
MARGO: I do n't understand .
PENDERGAST: The people killed were mauled and their brains were eaten . Just like Beauregard . One part of the brain was extracted with surgical precision . The hypothalamus and thalamus to be exact . Margo pales .
MARGO: John could n't have anything to do with a horrible thing like that . He was a fine man despite his problems
PENDERGAST: You loved him .
MARGO: Yes . Once . We met at Columbia . John held the Cadwalader Chair in Statistical Paleontology when I was a grad student there .
PENDERGAST: You were going to be married .
MARGO: How did you know that ?
PENDERGAST: I ran an internet search on Dr. Whittlesley . Got a list of his scholarly articles and the engagement announcement in the Times . I also found a record of you estraining order .
MARGO: That was two years ago . John was still in love with me . He would n't leave me alone .
PENDERGAST: You were afraid of him , were n't you ?
MARGO: He was afraid of himself . He tried suicide once . He was ill. Manic depressive . He had wild emotional highs and lows . Not a happy affliction for a scientist . He 'd een revered in our community . By the end he was a joke .
PENDERGAST: Tell me about the last expedition . What was he looking for ?
MARGO: A legendary monster called Mbwun .
PENDERGAST: A monster ?
MARGO: Yes . He developed his own theory that he called the Calisto Effect . It held that evolution was n't always gradual or driven by natural selection . The environment would sometimes cause sudden and grotesque changes which could result in a `` monster species '' . It made no sense . But he felt he had evidence that Mbwun was such a monster , living in isolation on the tepui for thousands of years .
PENDERGAST: What happened ?
MARGO: No one knows . The Kothoga who live on the tepui are cannibals .
PENDERGAST: What if Whittlesley arrived on the tepui and no monster was there ? Was he desperate enough to create one ?
MARGO: I do n't understand .
PENDERGAST: Something came up in autopsy tonight . Imbedded in Beauregard 's ody we found a claw .
MARGO: My God . Then it was an animal .
PENDERGAST: I do n't think so . I think we were meant to think it was Mbwun . Did Whittlesley 's monster have claws ?
MARGO: I do n't know . He sent back a statue that 's supposed to be an exact epresentation . But I 've never seen it . It 's in the exhibit .
PENDERGAST: Would you mind showing it to me ?
MARGO: I 'm not sure . We should split up . You take that hall and I 'll take this one .
PENDERGAST: All right . I 'm as macho as you are . Perhaps .
MARGO: Mr. Pendergast ! I found it . No answer . She turns , tries again , louder .
PENDERGAST: Dr. Green ! Dr. Green !
MARGO: I do n't know .
PENDERGAST: I heard you calling and I ran afte you , but you kept disappearing and I could n't keep up .
MARGO: You were behind me ? Running afte me ?
PENDERGAST: Where did you see it ?
MARGO: Behind me . Over there . Margo turns and points behind her to
PENDERGAST: All right . If you 're positive .
MARGO: I did n't imagine it . I know what I saw . Are you sure there are enough men in there ?
PENDERGAST: They 're all heavily armed .
MARGO: All right . This is hard for me . I 'm a scientist . I like order and logic . Sometimes too much . There 's got to e an explanation . There ca n't be an animal in there . But I saw something .
PENDERGAST: What was it ?
MARGO: I do n't know . Mr. Pendergast . Do me a favor . Get me a DNA readout on that claw .
DOYLE: Bailey ? Doyle here . I 'm still waiting outside the exhibit . Where the hell is McNitt ?
BAILEY: Should be there any minute . They came out a side door a while ago . Said the exhibit 's clear . McNitt 's headed back to spell you .
DOYLE: I 'm on double over-time , man .
BAILEY: I know . You can go home if you want to . I 'll come relieve you myself .
DOYLE: What the hell .
MCNITT: McNitt here . I 'm outside the exhibit . All 's quiet . But I do n't see Doyle .
PENDERGAST: I had no idea the Museum had a complete collection of Piranesi 's Forum sketches .
CUTHBERT: If you like them , they 're for sale . Another day like yesterday and half the collection will be on the block .
PENDERGAST: I 've read about the Museum 's financial troubles .
CUTHBERT: We 've been operating in the red fo years . That was the whole idea ehind the Superstition Exhibit . It was designed to pull people in . We 've spent every penny we have on advance publicity , betting everything on the opening 's success . If we postpone at the last minute No . I do n't want to think about that .
D'AGOSTA: We all love the museum . I come here myself with my kids . We 're trying to work with you .
CUTHBERT: I appreciate that .
PENDERGAST: If the party goes forward , and that 's a big if I 've arranged fo a large police presence .
CUTHBERT: Do they have to wear uniforms ?
PENDERGAST: Yes .
CUTHBERT: I do n't want to scare people .
PENDERGAST: I understand . But Mr. Cuthbert , we 've got bigger problems . Depending on what we find today , we may have to shut you down . Cuthbert looks grim .
KAWAKITA: What do you make of it , Margo ?
MARGO: It 's not mammalian , that 's for sure . I think it 's reptilian .
PENDERGAST: That would jive with what we got from the preliminary DNA read-out . Here , have a look .
MARGO: According to this , twenty-five percent of the claw DNA is unidentifiable , about a third is homo sapien , and the rest is Hemidactylus Turcicus .
D'AGOSTA: What 's that ? Margo pulls off her glasses .
MARGO: Turkish Gecko , I believe . A lizard .
KAWAKITA: Lizard DNA and human DNA on the same strand ? Impossible . The sample must e contaminated .
MARGO: There 's another possibility . A lot of repeated base pairs could suggest a high level of genetic damage .
PENDERGAST: Genetic damage ?
MARGO: When DNA is defective , it often uncontrollably replicates long epeating sequences of the same base pair . Viruses can damage DNA . So can adiation , certain chemicals . Even cancer . Let 's let the G.S.E . sort it out . I have to get started . This will take several hours .
PENDERGAST: We need someone to take us to the secure storage area .
KAWAKITA: Try Dr. Frock . He 's the curator of Plant Biology . All the curators have keys . And he knows every inch of this museum . The rest of us still get lost .
PENDERGAST: Thank you for taking the time to help us with this , Dr. Frock .
FROCK: Happy to be useful . It 's rare enough these days . According to security , Beauregard put the Whittlesley crates in storage area 1012 .
PENDERGAST: How many storage areas are there ?
FROCK: They fill seven floors . We have the largest collection of mammals and dinosaurs in the world . Just to give you an idea , there are more than three million insects specimens . Not to mention amphibians , reptiles , irds , anthropological artifacts , meteorites , minerals and gems . Only about five percent of the museum collection is actually on display .
D'AGOSTA: This place is a maze .
FROCK: I 'm one of the few who know every inch it , now that John is gone .
PENDERGAST: Do you mean Dr. Whittlesley ?
FROCK: Yes . John made quite a study of the whole museum . He had a copy of my original plans .
MARGO: Osteo prep , Karl .
D'AGOSTA: My kind of art .
KARL: They keep me company . Gets kinda lonely sometimes .
D'AGOSTA: My favorite is the two camels .
KARL: Really ? I 'm partial to the skunks .
FROCK: Did you ever wonder where we get all our skeletons ? This is the laboratory where animal carcasses are reduced to bones . What 's cooking today , Don ?
DON: Zebra .
D'AGOSTA: Man , that 's ripe .
FROCK: Dermestid beetles . The second method of preparing a skeleton , used in Natural History Museums world wide . Bugs are clean and highly efficient . They 'll polish that fox off in no time .
OSTERBAAN: Want to have a look at a gorilla ain ? Got one right here .
FROCK: Thanks Don . We 're in a hurry . Some other time .
D'AGOSTA: Holy shit .
FROCK: Something tried to get into this oom !
PENDERGAST: And failed . These doors are solid steel .
FROCK: This means there must be an animal loose in the museum !
PENDERGAST: I would n't be so sure .
D'AGOSTA: The lid of this crate is scratched with claw marks , just like the door .
FROCK: May I see that ? D'Agosta hands the letter to Frock .
PENDERGAST: Read it out loud .
FROCK: `` Dear Louis , Tomorrow we go to the south end of the tepui where we 'll be in the greatest danger , so I 'm sending Carlos back with the crates . You always believed in me , Louis , even in the darkest days . So it gives me great pleasure to tell you you faith has been rewarded . We 've made an incredible find . I enclose a epresentation of Mbwun . Note the exaggerated claws , the reptilian attributes , the hints of bipedalia . It 's beyond belief , but this statue is accurate . I know because I 've seen the beast . ''
D'AGOSTA: Pardon my French , but bull shit .
FROCK: This on top of the scratches is n't it proof !
PENDERGAST: I think the scratches were put there to scare us . Perhaps even lead us to this note . Pendergast looks out to the dark corridors .
FROCK: Yes .
PENDERGAST: Are there any hidden rooms o staircases ? Places where someone could hide ?
FROCK: Not really . Just the sub-basement . D'Agosta and Pendergast exchange a look .
PENDERGAST: Where is that ?
FROCK: I do n't know . It was walled over . No one 's been down there in years .
PENDERGAST: You said you had plans of the museum . Could we see them , please ?
FROCK: I know they 're here somewhere . It 's a good thing we caught the movers in time . They 're nineteen century lueprints from when the museum was uilt . I remember the sub-basement was below the regular basement , linked to the city sewer . I only know about it because it flooded all the way up to the museum during the hurricane of '49 . I lost so many precious books .
D'AGOSTA: How big is the sub-basement ?
PENDERGAST: Apparently it 's huge .
D'AGOSTA: I think I should come with you .
PENDERGAST: We have n't got time . You have to meet with museum security so we can make a decision about tonight .
JONATHAN: The dogs are picking up something , Mr. Pendergast .
DEPUTY ONE: What is this ? A dungeon ?
IPPOLITO: This huge police presence tonight is n't necessary , Lieutenant . You 'll just scare people off . I can handle the security behind scenes with this system . It 's state of the art .
D'AGOSTA: The cops are non-negotiable , Ippolito . Why do n't you just tell me how this space station works .
IPPOLITO: It 's fool proof , basically . I designed this whole thing myself . Every valuable object in the Museum carries a small electronic chip . If anything 's moved so much as an inch , we get an alarm pinpointing the exact location of the attempted theft .
D'AGOSTA: That 's great if you 're stopping a urglar . Not our goal here . Are there motion detectors ?
IPPOLITO: In every exhibition room . The museum 's divided into five cells . The reception and exhibit are in cell five . We could arm the motion detectors in cells one to four , then seal the perimeter with our fire doors .
D'AGOSTA: That would leave one exit fo hundreds of people . You 'd be violating every fire regulation on the books . We 'll guard the perimete with my men and engage the motion detectors in the other cells . One more question . I see a big hole . If this entire thing is run by computer , what happens if the powe fails ?
IPPOLITO: You do n't know much about computers , Lieutenant . There are safeguards uilt in . We have back-up systems with redundancies . There 's no way these computers can fail .
FROCK: I ca n't help thinking there 's something that Pendergast overlooked . If the scratches were made by whatever killed Beauregard , it wants something that 's in here .
MARGO: A blow dart . Seed pods . A plant press . Pretty unimpressive stuff .
FROCK: Let me see the plant press .
MARGO: What is it ?
FROCK: I 'm not sure . As you know , the Kothoga lived outside civilization on the tepui for thousands of years . Species flourished in isolation when man and pollution rendered them extinct . This could be one of the last remaining samples of an unknown plant .
MARGO: Whatever it is , it must be common on the tepui . John used it as packing material .
FROCK: You 're right .
KAWAKITA: And they smell delicious . Kawakita TAKES a NIBBLE .
FROCK: I would n't put that in your mouth until we do a chemical analysis , Greg .
KAWAKITA: I can handle that for you while we 're waiting on the G.S.E .
MARGO: What about those seed pods ? Are they from the same plant ? Frock takes a moment to study them , looks up .
FROCK: Margo , these are n't seed pods .
MARGO: What are they ?
FROCK: They 're eggs .
PENDERGAST: Hard to read in this light . The ink is so faded .
JONATHAN: The dogs have lost the scent , Mr. Pendergast . Maybe we should head ack .
PENDERGAST: Not yet . Let 's try the fork to the left .
DEPUTY TWO: This place gives me the creeps .
JONATHAN: They 've got something .
PENDERGAST: Keep the light up . I ca n't see .
JONATHAN: Heel Argo ! Hobbes ! Heel !
PENDERGAST: Stop !
JONATHAN: Holy mother , what is that ? A goatish odor envelops them all .
DEPUTY ONE: Smells God-awful . Like rotten meat .
JONATHAN: Argo ! Come !
PENDERGAST: Quiet !
JONATHAN: No ! Hobbes !
PENDERGAST: Forget the dogs . You two , get back here . Do n't point that gun at me .
JONATHAN: Argo ! Hobbes !
PENDERGAST: Get back ! Now !
JONATHAN: You shot my dog !
DEPUTY ONE: He was coming right at me
DEPUTY TWO: Let 's get out of here !
JONATHAN: I 'm not going anywhere ! Not without my dog !
DEPUTY ONE: Get back ! Jonathan shakes his head no .
JONATHAN: There 's something out there ! Let 's go get it now ! That 's why we came down here , is n't it ?
PENDERGAST: He 's right . Follow me .
DEPUTY ONE: No way . I say we get help . A lot more guns .
PENDERGAST: I 'm ordering you ! Cover me !
DEPUTY TWO: We 'll cover you from here !
JONATHAN: Look . It 's Hobbes ! He 's all right .
PENDERGAST: Come on . Let 's get back to the others . We ca n't leave them alone .
JONATHAN: It 's alright . I can tell by the way the dog 's acting that whatever was out there is gone . What is this place ?
PENDERGAST: Not on the map . Looks like it connects with the city sewer .
JONATHAN: Oh my God !
PENDERGAST: Quiet .
D'AGOSTA: I 'm telling you , something 's wrong . I still have n't heard from Pendergast . I think you should call it off .
CUTHBERT: It 's too late now . Guests are arriving . The Mayor 's car is pulling up .
D'AGOSTA: I 'll go down and speak to him .
CUTHBERT: You have n't got the authority . Only Pendergast can pull the plug .
D'AGOSTA: Pendergast may be in trouble . Do n't you understand ? He still has n't come ack . It 's been over three hours
CUTHBERT: He 'll be back . Relax . We 're in good shape . Your security is air tight . There 've been no more incidents , nothing suspicious . There 's no eason to call off the opening now .
KAWAKITA: What kind of egg is it ?
MARGO: It 's reptilian .
FROCK: Like the claw .
MARGO: Let 's not jump to conclusions . This egg could belong to any number of eptiles , Dr. Frock .
FROCK: Come on , Margo . We 're on the verge of something huge . Let 's conside the possibility , just the three of us , alone in this room . What if John was right . I mean , what if ? And he sent back an egg of his monster in the crates . When it got to the museum , it hatched .
MARGO: Several problems with that theory . For one thing , this egg is intact . For another , according to Pendergast , the crates were shipped here on a boat . Everyone on board was killed like Beauregard . If the thing hatched in mid-ocean , where did it go ?
KAWAKITA: I guess you 're not interested in this plant anymore , but the chemical analysis is done . Frock reads the computer over Greg 's shoulder .
FROCK: `` Genus Unknown . Family Unknown . Order Unknown . Phylum Unknown . Cripes , Margo , what did you give me ? Is this an animal or one funky shrub ? '' I see you 've been programming the computer vocabulary again .
MARGO: Look at this . An ambyloid reovirus protein . That explains why the computer 's confused . The plant 's infected with a virus .
FROCK: That 's not so unusual . Many plants carry viruses . Like the burls on Maple trees .
MARGO: But a virus normally codes for othe viruses . This one 's making human and animal proteins . Listen to this . `` Glycotetraglycine collagenoid . Weinstein 's tropic hormone . 4- monoxytocin supressin hormone . ''
KAWAKITA: These plant fibers are loaded with hormones !
MARGO: What kind of hormones ?
KAWAKITA: 4-monoxytocin is `` A hormone secreted by the human hypothalamus gland . ''
MARGO: Try Weinstein 's tropic hormone .
FROCK: A hormone secreted by the human thalamus gland .
MARGO: This is it . This is what he , o it is after ! The plant has high concentrations of the same hormones found in minute quantities in the human brain !
KAWAKITA: So what ?
MARGO: Pendergast told me the kille extracts and eats the hypothalamus and thalamus of the victim 's brains !
KAWAKITA: Eats them ?
MARGO: Yes . Whatever killed Beauregard may have lived on this plant . When the crates were put in secure storage , they were out of reach . The kille could n't get them , so it got the next best thing .
FROCK: Beauregard 's head .
MARGO: It 's all right . That means the G.S.E . has finished analyzing the claw DNA . Greg , you go find Pendergast and Lieutenant D'Agosta now .
DRUNK: Hey , where 'za little boys room ?
KAWAKITA: Down that hallway . But do n't stay long . You do n't want to be here alone .
MARGO: All right , assuming the program is accurate , this is a description of the animal with that claw . `` Species unidentified . Genus unidentified . Phylum unknown . Male , weight in excess of 240 kg . Brain capacity , 900 centimeters . '' That means it 's highly intelligent . `` Quadrupedal . ''
FROCK: Quadrupedal ! The other name fo Mbwun . `` He Who Walks on All Fours . ''
MARGO: `` Nocturnal . External hair and bony plates . Locomotor speed 60-70 kilometers . Reduced optic chiasm '' poor eyesight . `` External mucoid nasal glands , '' very keen scent `` Morphological characteristics Highly robust . Aggressiveness extreme . ''
FROCK: So the claw came from a huge creature with a preternatural sense of smell and poor eyesight that hunts at night .
MARGO: With the intelligence of a human eing , the speed of a greyhound , and the strength of a grizzly bear .
FROCK: Margo , what you 've just described is a killing machine .
MARGO: And it 's hungry . It 's been two days since it 's eaten . There are five hundred people arriving right now . The animal hunts at night and it has a keen sense of smell ! All those people in one enclosed space
FROCK: It 's like ringing the dinner bell .
CUTHBERT: Thank you everyone and welcome . We 're glad all of you were willing to brave the inclement weather to be with us tonight . Our special thanks to his honor , the mayor and his lovely wife . The Mayor takes a bow . More applause .
KAWAKITA: Lieutenant ! It 's me .
D'AGOSTA: What is it ?
KAWAKITA: Dr. Green has to see you !
D'AGOSTA: Got my hands full here .
KAWAKITA: It 's important . Please . You have to come ! Pendergast , too . She 's found out something . D'Agosta pulls out his walkie talkie .
D'AGOSTA: McNitt ? D'Agosta here .
MCNITT: Yeah Lieutenant ? I 'm here .
GEORGE: Probably just something wrong with the air conditioning . There 's a shit load of electrical rooms back there .
MCNITT: Lieutenant ? There 's something wrong in the computer room .
GEORGE: You 're over-reacting . Sounds like the air conditioning to me .
D'AGOSTA: Damn . There 's some kind of problem in the computer room . I have to go get Ippolito . You wait here .
CUTHBERT: Here we have a very rare sacrificial table from Mesoamerica . The priests would kill the victim on this slab , cut out the heart and eat it while it was still beating .
MAYOR: I could use one of these things in City Hall .
MAYOR'S WIFE: You 're letting kids see this ? I should think they 'd have nightmares .
CUTHBERT: Kid will love it . They 're our target audience . Nothing here is as violent as what they see on T.V .
MAYOR: I do n't know . That could be a little over the top . It 's not even scientific . Mummies do n't bleed . Cuthbert 's smile fades as he sees the mummy .
CUTHBERT: Oh my God
IPPOLITO: Quiet everyone !
WOMAN: There 's a body up there !
MCNITT: George ! Get out here , now !
KAWAKITA: What happened ? !
D'AGOSTA: There 's a dead body in the exhibit ! People are panicking , trampling each other trying to get out . Ippolito runs over to join them .
IPPOLITO: The whole system is shutting down ! We have to get out quickly before the fire doors fall !
D'AGOSTA: What doors ?
IPPOLITO: I told you ! They seal off all the cells . They were designed to fall automatically in a system failure
D'AGOSTA: You said the system could n't fail !
BAILEY: Above you ! Look out !
D'AGOSTA: Ippolito ! Get back here !
IPPOLITO: Like hell !
MARGO: What 's going on ?
FROCK: Some kind of power failure . Maybe it 's the storm . Do you have a flashlight ?
MARGO: I think so . She gets one from a cupboard .
FROCK: Greg 's been gone over a half hour . We 'd better get out of here . Get the crate .
MARGO: Dr. Frock . Did you hear that ?
FROCK: Do n't stop now .
MARGO: What 's that ?
FROCK: It 's one of the fire doors . Good Lord , Margo . We 're trapped !
PENDERGAST: I know where we are now . We 're getting out , Jonathan . This should e another door .
JONATHAN: Hallelujah , Pendergast . Where the hell are we now ?
PENDERGAST: Another storage room .
JONATHAN: Oh no . I smell it .
PENDERGAST: Keep the animal quiet .
FROCK: Look !
MARGO: Dr. Frock ! Quick !
PENDERGAST: No . I think I 'm hallucinating .
MARGO: You 're not . Where is it ?
PENDERGAST: Gone .
MARGO: Wounded ?
PENDERGAST: No . A chromium alloy tipped .45 caliber bullet bounced off that thing 's skull like a spit ball . I think it was bothered by my light .
MARGO: That would fit . It 's nocturnal . Quick . Come inside .
BAILEY: Manual overrides are n't working . I 'm getting nothing , Lieutenant .
D'AGOSTA: Great .
FRANK: There 's no power . The whole system 's down . The crowd starts to murmur . One man yells .
MAN: We 're trapped ! And there 's a kille in here !
D'AGOSTA: We 'll get out safely if everyone stays calm . Is anyone else hurt ?
MAYOR: Yes . My wife .
D'AGOSTA: Is there a doctor ?
POUND: I 'm Dr . Pound .
D'AGOSTA: Check this woman and see if anyone else needs you .
JONATHAN: Lieutenant D'Agosta ! Do n't shoot .
D'AGOSTA: Where 's Pendergast ?
JONATHAN: Five flights down . We were lost in the sub-basement . Something 's down there . It killed our two deputies . When I left Pendergast it was coming ack . He sent me for help . We have to hurry .
D'AGOSTA: Both of you . Get back here .
POUND: But he 's still alive
D'AGOSTA: Get back now !
CUTHBERT: What 's going on ? D'Agosta speaks low .
D'AGOSTA: There 's some kind of animal loose in the museum . Pendergast 's alone . He needs help . I want volunteers to go with me .
BAILEY: I 'm in .
KAWAKITA: Me too .
CUTHBERT: I 'd do it gladly but someone needs to stay with these people .
D'AGOSTA: All right . You 're elected . Bailey , get all the guns and flashlights , give the mayor your walkie talkie so we can keep in touch . Cuthbert , keep everyone together and make sure they stay quiet . Frank steps forward .
FRANK: I was in the Marines . Give me a gun . I 'd go with you , too , but I 've got my daughter .
D'AGOSTA: What 's your name ?
FRANK: Frank .
D'AGOSTA: All right . You guard these people and your daughter . D'Agosta gives Frank his service revolver .
MAYOR'S WIFE: Where are you going ? Do n't leave us alone !
MAYOR: Everyone quiet . The Lieutenant 's in charge .
D'AGOSTA: Bailey , we 'll go first and check the stairwell . Jonathan , you and Greg guard the door .
KAWAKITA: Excuse me . Could you tell me how this thing works ?
JONATHAN: Oh Jesus . Do n't point it at me . Just aim and shoot .
D'AGOSTA: Hold on . I thought I saw something .
JONATHAN: Lieutenant ! Get back !
D'AGOSTA: BAILEY ! ! !
BAILEY: NOOOOO !
D'AGOSTA: Jonathan ! Do n't let it get into the hall !
JONATHAN: I do n't know ! It hit me hard .
D'AGOSTA: Somebody tell me ! Where is it now ?
MAYOR: Lieutenant . In the south corner .
D'AGOSTA: On three .
CUTHBERT: It went out the door to the rotunda !
D'AGOSTA: Get everyone into the stairwell !
CUTHBERT: Sweet Jesus !
D'AGOSTA: Get his gun and his walkie talkie , Jonathan . Move .
CUTHBERT: My office is on the third floor ! There 's a walk-in safe and a portable phone ! We can lock ourselves in the safe and call fo help !
D'AGOSTA: I have to help Pendergast . Kawakita and Jonathan stay with me . The rest of you can go with Cuthbert !
MAYOR: I think we should stick together !
FRANK: Me too .
CUTHBERT: I 'm leaving . Whoever wants can come with me . No one follows .
D'AGOSTA: Wait ! Cuthbert 's gone .
MAYOR: Good luck !
IPPOLITO: All right everyone . I 'm in charge . Status report . One of the security men , WATERS , rises .
WATERS: Swat teams are on the way . Fire trucks with them . Everything 's slowed down because of the rain . We 're bringing in portable generators . They 'll get the emergency lights working but they wo n't pump enough power to lift the doors . Ippolito pulls out his walkie talkie .
IPPOLITO: D'Agosta ? Ippolito . Come in .
WATERS: Did he say monster ?
IPPOLITO: Panic attack .
MAYOR: Mayor Jordan here .
IPPOLITO: All right . The steel doors are designed to retard cutting . We can go through them , but it would take hours .
WATERS: The quickest way in would be to go through the roof , sir . Cell two goes up to the fifth floor . There are sky lights up there .
IPPOLITO: Co-ordinate with the fire department and SWAT teams . Move .
PENDERGAST: I do n't know how to deal with this . It 's hellish . Like nothing I eve saw . I 'm not trained to deal with a monster , a supernatural creature like that .
MARGO: It 's not supernatural . Mbwun is an animal . Part lizard , part human , a genetic freak of some kind , like the half-goat , half-sheep they found last year in the jungles of Vietnam .
PENDERGAST: But this is n't the jungle ! This is New York . How did it get here ? A thing like that crossed two continents . It makes no sense !
FROCK: We think it may have something to do with the eggs we found in the crate .
PENDERGAST: I do n't believe it .
MARGO: None of that matters now . The people upstairs need us . We have to help .
FROCK: We ca n't . We 've managed to get inside the one place that 's safe . I think we should sit tight and wait for reinforcements . If we go outside , we 're risking more lives . You have to accept it , Margo , there 's nothing we can do . The uilding must be swarming with police by now . It wo n't take long for them to get through the doors .
MARGO: That thing could kill ten people in a matter of minutes .
PENDERGAST: But what can we do ? Our guns are useless
MARGO: We have the fibers . Do n't you see ? The creature is hungry . It wants the hormones in these plants . It would take hundreds of human brains to supply what 's in these fibers . We 're just a poor substitute . To make it stop hunting , we have to give it what it wants .
CUTHBERT: Solid oak . Two inches thick . Tell me they 'll hold .
JONATHAN: Where 's the walk-in safe ?
CUTHBERT: Behind you .
JONATHAN: What 's the combination ?
CUTHBERT: I 'll do it . Just let me find my portable phone .
JONATHAN: Forget it !
CUTHBERT: Calm down . I found it !
JONATHAN: Let 's go !
CUTHBERT: That thing wo n't come after us , ight ? It 's going for bigger game . The group blundering around in the asement . Poor fools .
JONATHAN: Hurry up !
CUTHBERT: Just a minute . I 'm shaking ! Take the gun .
JONATHAN: For Chrissake , I 'll do it . What 's the combination ? !
CUTHBERT: To the left twice then five no sorry I think it 's fifteen it 's een a while
JONATHAN: Oh Jesus
CUTHBERT: Eight to the right ! Look ! I found it !
PENDERGAST: All clear .
FROCK: I 'm coming with you .
MARGO: No , Dr. Frock . You ca n't .
PENDERGAST: You 'd slow us down and put Margo in danger .
MARGO: Unlock one of the other storage ooms . We 're going upstairs . We 'll leave a trail back to 1012 and try to trap the monster in here .
FROCK: Margo , this is too dangerous . You always think you can solve everything . This time you do n't have enough information . The animal might ehave in unexpected ways . Leave her here with me . Do n't put her in danger .
PENDERGAST: He 's right .
MARGO: No . You 'll need me At this a LOUD SOUND comes from upstairs !
FROCK: What 's that ?
PENDERGAST: Footsteps !
MARGO: No , not footsteps ! People running for their lives !
FROCK: Come back and get me .
MARGO: We will .
FROCK: Remember , it has poor eyesight . It hunts with its sense of smell . So for God 's sake , Margo , do n't get those fibers on your clothes !
KAWAKITA: It 's still back there !
D'AGOSTA: I know . Now a voice is heard in the distance .
PENDERGAST: That was D'Agosta .
MARGO: The planetarium !
PENDERGAST: Vince !
D'AGOSTA: Pendergast ! Help ! It 's right behind us !
PENDERGAST: This door 's locked . Try shooting the hinges off .
D'AGOSTA: Step back !
KAWAKITA: Is Dr. Frock safe !
MARGO: Yes , he 's fine . Greg take care of yourself !
PENDERGAST: No . The planetarium is in the next cell . This is one of the fire doors Pendergast returns to the window .
D'AGOSTA: The sub-basement ?
PENDERGAST: I 've been down there . It links up to the old sewer system . I can guide you out . D'Agosta turns to the others .
D'AGOSTA: How much ammo do we have to make a stand ?
KAWAKITA: You 're asking me ? I do n't even know how to load this thing .
FRANK: Four rounds
D'AGOSTA: Oh shit . D'Agosta pumps his shot gun .
PENDERGAST: Go out the north exit ! There 's a hallway and a false wall by the Greek vases . Run !
D'AGOSTA: Everybody . Get behind me .
PENDERGAST: Hide quickly !
MARGO: What are you going to do ? Pendergast checks his gun , totally calm .
PENDERGAST: Buy them some time .
MARGO: What is it doing ?
PENDERGAST: It 's scared of me .
MARGO: Its eyesight is worse than I thought . It could n't see us . And it could n't smell us through the glass .
PENDERGAST: It did n't want the fibers . What does that mean ?
MARGO: I think it means it 's full .
PENDERGAST: Then it wo n't go after the others ?
MARGO: No . It 's still hunting , but not fo the hormones .
PENDERGAST: For what ?
MARGO: I think for the pleasure of the kill .
D'AGOSTA: That 's it , let 's go !
PENDERGAST: We 're fine . Take the left fork ehind you . You 'll be in a straight passage . When the hall forks again in fifty yards go right . Then radio ack .
D'AGOSTA: All right . Kawakita , cover the rear .
KAWAKITA: Oh shit .
FRANK: No , Lieutenant . He 's not a good enough shot . I 'll do it if you take care of my daughter .
D'AGOSTA: Damn . It 's getting deep . See anything ?
FRANK: You 'll be the first to know .
D'AGOSTA: Pendergast ? I made the right hand fork . We 're already in about three feet of water . Where should we go ?
MAYOR: It 's too late !
LAUREN: Dad !
D'AGOSTA: Run !
KAWAKITA: I think it 's gone .
D'AGOSTA: I think you took its tonsils out !
MAYOR: Which way !
D'AGOSTA: This way !
KAWAKITA: Holy shit .
PENDERGAST: Vince ? Can you hear me ? Vince !
MARGO: We have to try and draw it off !
PENDERGAST: How ?
MARGO: The answer 's right in front of us .
PENDERGAST: It 's deceptively simple . Like a Bruckner Symphony or a Matisse . Margo heads for the Planetarium , calling
MARGO: Help ! Please someone ! Help !
JENNINGS: We 're ready . We 've got enough firepower to turn a herd of lions into a fine red mist .
IPPOLITO: Then do it .
JONATHAN: It 's okay , Hobbes . We 'll be all ight . Help has got to come eventually We 'll make it . We 'll be fine .
DRUNK: Who the hell are you ?
JONATHAN: You first .
DRUNK: I got lost tryin ' to find the athroom . I was walkin ' in circles . I lay down for a nap . What 's going on ?
JONATHAN: You would n't believe me if I told you .
DRUNK: Where we going ?
JONATHAN: I think we 're going home .
JENNINGS: Are you hurt ?
JONATHAN: We 're fine . I do n't know about the people downstairs . In the Hall of the Heavens . The basement you 'll need help . There 's a monster down there . A sling suspended on ropes is lowered down .
JENNINGS: The rescue workers will lift you out one at a time .
MARGO: Help someone !
PENDERGAST: Oh God ! Help !
MARGO: You smell that ?
PENDERGAST: It 's coming . Run .
D'AGOSTA: At least we 'll be dry .
KAWAKITA: I believe in you a hundred percent , Vince , but that 's the second time we 've been at that intersection .
D'AGOSTA: Not so loud .
KAWAKITA: What 's that ?
D'AGOSTA: All right everybody , hold up !
KAWAKITA: Dr. John Whittlesley .
D'AGOSTA: What 's that doing here ?
KAWAKITA: I do n't know . I thought Dr. Whittlesley died in South America .
MAYOR: Look . There 's a ladder at the end . I think it goes up to the street !
KAWAKITA: What is that ?
D'AGOSTA: I 'd say we 're in its home .
PENDERGAST: We 're not going to make the storage oom !
MARGO: Listen to me , Pendergast . Mbwun 's DNA is part homo sapien . In primates , the eye is a direct path to the brain ! If you get a clean shot , there 's only one place you can kill it . Shoot it in the eye !
PENDERGAST: Please , no ! Do n't hurt Margo !
MARGO: My God . You understand .
PENDERGAST: Run !
MARGO: John 's necklace ! You killed him !
PENDERGAST: What ?
MARGO: That thing is John Whittlesley . I should have seen it before ! The fibers are infected with a virus . You eat them , and the virus alters your DNA ! He became addicted to them in South America , followed the plants back to the states . He probably entered the country as a man . It would have taken several months for the change to take place . That 's how he got from the boat to the museum !
PENDERGAST: I do n't believe it .
MARGO: You have to ! Listen ! All viruses pass on their own DNA . Instruct the cells of the host to make more viruses ! This one was different . It inserted a whole array of genes into John . Reptile genes , sixty five million years old . Those genes emade him ! It 's not his fault !
PENDERGAST: Whatever that thing is , we have to kill it !
WATERS: We ca n't raise the S.W.A.T . team . No one 's answering ! What do you want to do ?
IPPOLITO: Holy shit . Pull him up .
MARGO: No . Wait ! Let me talk to him first !
IPPOLITO: Kill that thing ! Kill it now !
MARGO: No !
WATERS: Holy shit it 's coming this way !
IPPOLITO: It 's headed for the roof . Run !
WATERS: Get back here , you asshole ! We ca n't let it get out ! Surround the opening and kill it !
MARGO: Just like John . He wo n't listen .
PENDERGAST: I have to shoot .
MARGO: Do it , quickly . Please . Aim for the eye .
PENDERGAST: He has to look here or I wo n't get a clear shot . Call him , Margo .
MARGO: I ca n't !
PENDERGAST: You have to . Do it now !
MARGO: John ! John , look at me !
KAWAKITA: Margo Green . Have you seen her ?
PENDERGAST: She 's over here .
D'AGOSTA: The sub-basement , huh ? Great idea .
MARGO: No time for fishing anymore ? Greg looks up from his work and smiles .
KAWAKITA: Got to finish this thesis sometime .
MARGO: How about lunch ?
KAWAKITA: Not today . Besides , I think the director of the museum is expecting you .
MARGO: Okay . Margo exits . Greg returns to his work .
FROCK: Look who 's here , Margo .
MARGO: I 'm so glad to see you . What 's the occasion ?
PENDERGAST: I 'm in town on a case . Dropped by to see Vince and we thought we 'd see the new display .
FROCK: They were sent to the Center Fo Disease Control in Atlanta .
D'AGOSTA: Should n't a drug that powerful be destroyed ?
FROCK: The virus itself might have positive applications . They 'll keep the plants in secure lock up while the studies are made . Greg is n't joining us ?
MARGO: He 's changed . He 's always working on his thesis . He comes in early , stays late . I tried to get him to join us , ut he never takes a break .
PENDERGAST: We did the right thing , Margo . Margo smiles warmly .
MARGO: Yes . I know .
BLONDE: Hello ?
TYLER: Yeah Of course . I 'm on my way . I knowI knowI knowI know .
DIANE: I 'm fine you look good
TYLER: Thanks for organizing everybody .
CAROLINE: You smell like Listerine and beer .
CHARLES: You could n't wear a tie ?
TYLER: Could have .
DIANE: This is nice I think it 's nice that we still do this
CAROLINE: Mom .
DIANE: I forgot . I 'm trying to purge `` nice '' from my vocabulary . Michael would like that we still do this .
CAROLINE: Tyler , did I tell you what my art teacher said about my portrait ?
TYLER: Why no , Caroline . What did your art teacher say about your portrait ?
DIANE: You two . I quit .
CAROLINE: She was very impressed . She said I captured a moment like a young James Whistler .
TYLER: Young Whistler good 'cause Whistler really fell off late in his career . He 's the Michael Jackson of European art history .
DIANE: She suggested your sister take Pratt 's Summer Art Intensive and that 's hugely prestigious .
CAROLINE: I would be the youngest one , ever , practically
CHARLES: Tyler , would you please pass the utter ?
DIANE: Caroline was speaking .
TYLER: Are you really this clueless ? Are you really dismissing her like this ?
CHARLES: Caroline is perfectly capable of speaking up if she is feeling dismissed . Caroline , are you feeling dismissed ?
CAROLINE: I 'm okay .
CHARLES: I did n't mean to change the subject .
TYLER: What was the subject ?
CHARLES: Excuse me ?
TYLER: The subject we were discussing . What was it ?
CHARLES: Now 's not the time for your heroics Tyle
TYLER: No . It 's the perfect time .
CAROLINE: I 'll stay with mom .
TYLER: Then I 'll see you after school .
CAROLINE: Kay .
HOSTESS: Eat something .
TYLER: Yes , ma'am .
AIDAN: I sold your girlfriend a toothbrush .
TYLER: You sold my who ? What ?
AIDAN: That voluptuous , delightfully oblivious little blonde you left in your bed this morning I sold he a toothbrush . Got three bucks .
TYLER: Congratulations ?
AIDAN: Are in order , yes . Because that sale inspired our newest business venture `` The S.L.U.T . ''
TYLER: I was unaware we had a previous usiness venture .
AIDAN: The 'Single Lady 's Universal Tote ' . It 's the one-night-stand travel pack for women . We throw in some make-up , toiletries , cell phone charger , cab numbers . Retail it at S19.95 , maybe do an infomercial .
TYLER: And you think women would buy this ? With money ?
AIDAN: Hey one-night-stands happen It 's a part of life like stubbing your toe . Sometimes you misjudge a corner and bend back your pinky toe , other times you wake up in a freshman dorm wearing a field hockey tee shirt wondering why you alls smell like cinnamon
TYLER: Of course . Yes .
AIDAN: Do n't underestimate the novelty gift market . Think about it instead of giving that token slutty friend a ten-inch purple dildo fo her birthday , you hook her up with `` The SLUT . '' Everyone has a laugh and the implication that she 'll probably use it someday remains . What do you say ? Are you down ?
TYLER: I 'm down with getting you on some sort of medication .
AIDAN: OKfinebe cynicaljust emember at some point in history two people had a conversation just like this about the light bulb . One of them went on to fame and fortune and the other one probably went to work at Mickey D 's or something .
TYLER: Or Denny 's . Denny 's was big in the 19th century .
PROFESSOR: in the wake of terrorist attacks these insurance company actuaries are provided a unique opportunity to raise premiums and profits to protect against events that will likely never occur again
GIRL: Is n't that also an ethical question ?
UPTIGHT MOMMY: Why do n't we make this a non- smoking statue ?
CAROLINE: Yeah , Tyler . Why do n't we make this a non-smoking statue ?
TYLER: I know .
CAROLINE: You 're gon na get emphysema and then you 're gon na have to drag an oxygen tank with you everywhere
TYLER: You think that would be the worst part about having emphysema ?
CAROLINE: Everywhere you go , Tyler . Even the athroom .
TYLER: Dad loves you .
CAROLINE: So ? You can love someone and not want to spend any time with them .
TYLER: You 've got that right .
CAROLINE: Mom loves Aunt Sara . But at Christmas , last year , she would n't let Les leave them in a room together 'cause she said there would be a `` yule tide homicide . ''
TYLER: That 's because Aunt Sara drinks You do n't drink , right ?
CAROLINE: Duh .
TYLER: So why would anyone wan na avoid you ?
CAROLINE: Michael used to drink .
TYLER: Yeah . He did . But Michael was 21 . All 21 year olds drink because it 's new and exciting . Aunt Sara drinks ecause she wishes she was 21 .
CAROLINE: You 're 21 .
AIDAN: What about Atlantic City for you irthday this year ? Get a suite . Couple of ladies . You could call Toothbrush Girl , what do you think ?
TYLER: I think I 'd rather be sodomized .
AIDAN: Hey , it 's your day .
TYLER: I do n't expect you to appreciate this , but the schematic for this particular shelf is authors who were sleeping together
AIDAN: No shit ?
TYLER: And ended up dead or in prison .
AIDAN: This is why chicks dig you .
TYLER: Eh .
AIDAN: Hey nothing . You 've been a ghost the past couple weeks . You neve wan na go out . I 'm feeling unappreciated here .
TYLER: You realize interventions typically discourage binge drinking ?
AIDAN: One drink . Come out for one drink .
TYLER: When 's the last time you had one drink ?
AIDAN: Hey , Megan !
MEGAN: Do . Not . Speak .
AIDAN: Is she mad at me or something ?
TYLER: No no . Girls are like that when they 're way into you .
AIDAN: Oh .
GIRL #1: Excuse me ?
AIDAN: Well , hello
GIRL #1: Could you take a picture for us ?
AIDAN: My pleasure
MEGAN: I hope you die .
TYLER: She 's all over you . Cheers .
AIDAN: I love this street . I love this city . Where are you guys from , again ?
AIDAN'S GIRL: Miami .
AIDAN: Miami . Miami , Barcelona , Rio . New York is it , man . God broke the mold when he made this city .
TYLER: You ever actually been to any of those places ?
AIDAN: What 's your point ?
AIDAN'S GIRL: What are we doing ? I 'm freezing .
AIDAN: Shoulda worn a jacket . Like me .
AIDAN'S GIRL: Asshole .
TYLER'S GIRL: Hold on , Lauren .
MUSICIAN#2: What 's your problem ?
NEANDERTHAL DRIVER: My problem ? Keep your hands off my car , asshole .
MUSICIAN#2: Blow it out your ass , Guido .
MUSICIAN#1: Go back to Long Island .
NEANDERTHAL DRIVER: I 'm from Queens , faggot
TYLER'S GIRL: So we were thinking we could go
AIDAN: God damn it .
CRAIG: Cut those two loose .
LEO: Take a walk .
CRAIG: Anything in here that 's going to stab me , Einstein ?
NEANDERTHAL#1: I do n't even know the bitch .
CRAIG: How about you two ?
MUSICIAN#1: It was n't us , man !
NEANDERTHAL#1: That cocksucker kicked my car !
CRAIG: Shut up , genius .
MUSICIAN#1: Eat shit , pencil dick .
CRAIG: Alright . That 's it . Everybody goes downtown .
TYLER: It was n't them .
AIDAN: Tyler
LEO: Take a walk , I said .
TYLER: Hey !
CRAIG: What are you still doing here ?
TYLER: This is bullshit . It was those gorillas who started this .
CRAIG: Well , Mr. Roth . What makes you think I give a shit ?
TYLER: You 're a police officer . You 're supposed to .
CRAIG: It 's a great relief to me , Mr. Roth , to know that you 're on top of the situation . Now go the fuck home .
TYLER: How about you do your job ?
ESCORTING OFFICER: You can have your call now .
TYLER: I 'm good .
AIDAN: You 're good ? Thank God you 're good .
TYLER: That was a messed up situation . Those guys
AIDAN: No justice . Okay , Green Hornet Lantern Asshole .
TYLER: Did you just say `` nihilistic '' ?
AIDAN: Yeah . I got it off a cereal box .
ESCORTING OFFICER: Roth , Brewer .
AIDAN: Yeah , I called your dad 's office . Sue me .
ALLY: So when would that be available ? No , that 's sooner than I 'd thought . And is there any kind of deposit ? .. Okay .
CRAIG: Breathe .
ALLY: Did you ?
CRAIG: I did . I 'm breathing right now . Who was that ?
ALLY: The lady from student housing . We talked about it . Remember ?
CRAIG: Sure .
ALLY: Mrs. Lippman is going to drive me .
CRAIG: I 'll drive you .
ALLY: Mrs. Lippman said she 'd do it .
THE RECEPTIONIST: You know you ca n't smoke in here .
TYLER: So what 's with the ash tray ?
THE RECEPTIONIST: It completes the room .
TYLER: Tease .
JANINE: He 's ready for you .
TYLER: Nice to see you too .
JANINE: You want me to lie ?
TYLER: Okay .
CHARLES: How much what costs ?
TYLER: That lawyer .
CHARLES: Ah . That lawyer , Tyler , costs 450 dollars an hour .
TYLER: Christ .
CHARLES: Tell me about it .
TYLER: I wanted to make sure you understood it was n't me who called you .
CHARLES: I understand . You could do worse than have a father who bails you out of jail
TYLER: I do n't want to be bailed out of anything .
CAROLINE: What happened to your face ?
TYLER: Horrible threshing accident .
CAROLINE: You 're so retarded .
TYLER: Do n't mock the afflicted . Here , I brought you something .
CAROLINE: Ooh . These are cool . Thanks ! Where are we meeting mom ?
TYLER: Guggenheim . What 's up with those girls ?
CAROLINE: I justthey think I 'm weird . Sometimes I sort of space out .
TYLER: When you 're drawing ?
CAROLINE: Yeah . Other times too . Madamoiselle Fleischman had to snap her fingers at me a lot today . And everybody laughed and they all think I 'm a freak of nature .
TYLER: Je m'appelle `` Freak of Nature . ''
CAROLINE: What are you going to tell mom about your face ?
TYLER: I finally found something I 'm good at ?
AIDAN: I know by every numerical measurement I did n't pass but what I was hoping was that maybe you give me a grade on my trying to pass . My commitment to effort . My commitment to commitmentSince the semester is nearly at it 's terminus .
TYLER: Who ?
AIDAN: The cop The cop who busted you face all up . He 's got a daughter . And she 's hot ! I smell revenge !
TYLER: Revenge . What do you want me to do , kidnap her ?
AIDAN: You introduce yourselfgo on a few datesbe your charming , gentlemanly self And then , flip the script .
TYLER: What does that mean ?
AIDAN: Screw her brains out and make he call you daddy . Steal her underwea and sell it on ebay . Put her in Clown Shoes , take lewd photos and post them on her high school 's home page . I do n't know . Be creative .
TYLER: You should be incarcerated on general principle .
AIDAN: Hey . What happened to you was very emasculating . Tell me you do n't want to get that asshole and I 'll drop it .
TYLER: I do n't want to get that asshole .
AIDAN: Just meet her .
TYLER: I do n't want to meet her .
AIDAN: She 's cute .
TYLER: I do n't care .
AIDAN: You 're meeting her .
TYLER: I 'm not meeting her .
AIDAN: She was here yesterday .
TYLER: What am I supposed to say to this girl ? `` Hey doll face , your dad trampled all over my civil liberties , wan na make out ? ''
AIDAN: Well do n't call her doll face .
TYLER: I know her . I mean , I do n't know her , but , I 've seen her . She 's in my global politics class .
AIDAN: There you go ! Something to open with . Now get over there .
TYLER: Excuse me ?
ALLY: You 're already bothering me .
TYLER: Um , I 'm doing kind of a sociological experimentI was hoping you could help me out .
ALLY: What are you , kidding me ?
TYLER: No , I may I ask your name ?
ALLY: Anonymous . It 's Greek . It means `` you do n't have a shot '' .
TYLER: Okay , Anonymous , do you see the guy across the room , pretending to read a text book , looking in this general direction ?
ALLY: Subtle .
TYLER: I have this theory that an objective third-party , having no prior contact , would be able to determine how much of an asshole he is just by looking at him .
ALLY: Ah .
TYLER: He 's my roommate . And I 've witnessed so many glaring examples of assaholic behavior that I 'm iased as a subject , but I 'm convinced that he has an aura , that people can actually perceive . So , just take a good long look . And tell me what you think ?
ALLY: Who else do you plan on asking ?
TYLER: No one here . The parameters called only to sample attractive women in their early twenties .
ALLY: I 'm nineteen .
TYLER: In their late teens . Well , look , you typically get something for participating in these things and I 've run out of those big foam fingers , so I was thinking maybe I could take you out some night ?
ALLY: I do n't date sociology majors they 're a rowdy bunch .
TYLER: Indeed they are . Lucky for you , I 'm undecided .
ALLY: About what ?
TYLER: Everything .
ALLY: I 'm Ally .
CHUBBY GIRL: Kiss ass freak .
CRAIG: Do n't be mad
ALLY: Dad , we 've seen freaking Erin Brockovich twice already . You always cry .
TYLER: Hey . It 's Tyler .
ALLY: Hi .
TYLER: You 're going to stand me up . I can feel it in my bones . I 'll be devastated .
ALLY: No II was just
TYLER: You were just sitting around in your pajamas watching T.V .
ALLY: No . I 'm not watching T.V . I 'm justgetting dressed .
TYLER: Eight .
ALLY: Rightyes . Eightokay .
CRAIG: I can see that .
ALLY: Well , you 're a trained investigator .
CRAIG: Who are you going with ?
ALLY: A boy from school .
CRAIG: Okay .
ALLY: I was n't asking for permission .
CRAIG: I know . Have a good time . Here 's cab fare .
ALLY: Thanks .
CRAIG: Should I wait up ?
ALLY: Dad .
WAITER: Dessert special fried bananas a la mode .
ALLY: Great , I 'll have that . A glass of skim milk . Then the mussels , please .
TYLER: Pad Thai and a Sapporo . Thanks .
ALLY: I have my dessert first .
TYLER: Is this a political statement ? A medical condition ?
ALLY: I just do n't see the point in waiting for something I know I want and am going to have . What if I die eating my mussels ?
TYLER: Is that probable ?
ALLY: It 's possible . If an embolism burst or an asteroid hit the restaurant , I 'd die without having eaten the thing I wanted most .
TYLER: But the odds are , I mean
ALLY: Fine . I 'll tell you what , you guarantee me . Swear to me on you eternal soul that I 'll make it through my entre . And I 'll wait .
TYLER: You had a nice time or you 're having a nice time ?
TYLER: Did I tell you I 'm Caucasian ?
ALLY: Apparently .
TYLER: No . If I stop , he wins .
ALLY: Who , the attendant ?
TYLER: No , the frigging Giant Panda .
ALLY: I do n't know what you 're smiling about .
TYLER: I won .
ALLY: Paying off the attendant is not winning It 's cheating .
TYLER: I just paid a premium to cut out the middle man . That 's innovation . That 's free market enterprising . That 's what made America great .
ALLY: Aha . By the way , what happened to your eye ?
TYLER: Oh , it 's nothing , just a bar fight .
ALLY: How butch .
TYLER: I know . I 'm practically a pirate .
ALLY: Okay , Captain Morgan
TYLER: You 've got some serious timing .
ALL: It 's getting late .
TYLER: I 'll walk you to the train .
ALLY: I 'll take a cab .
CAB DRIVER: We goin ' or what ?
ALLY: Hey ! Turn on the meter .
TYLER: So dessert before dinner for fea of death by rogue asteroid yes . Kissing guy you 're obviously attracted to before driving off into the unknown New York night no .
ALLY: You 're really weird .
TYLER: Happy end of sixth grade !
CAROLINE: Finally .
TYLER: I heard .
CAROLINE: It 's very prestigious due to my artistic greatness .
TYLER: Do n't pretend . I know you 're proud . You should be .
CAROLINE: There 's , like , a thing
TYLER: A thing ?
CAROLINE: A show where you show what you 've done and stuff . Will you come ?
TYLER: Let me check my book . Abso-freaking- lutely . I 'm camping out . I 'm sleeping there the night before .
CAROLINE: You 're so retarded . Mom 's been hyperventilating with joy .
TYLER: Good . I 'm sure Les was
CAROLINE: Your school 's over , right ?
TYLER: Yes , it 's over . Did Mom and Les get the beach house again ?
CAROLINE: Yup . What are we going to do fo your birthday ?
TYLER: Nothing .
CAROLINE: Can we have a party ?
TYLER: No .
CAROLINE: A little one ? At Mom 's ? With Aidan . I 'll make Mom behave . No crying .
TYLER: Like that 's possible .
ALLY: I do n't do coasters till the third date .
TYLER: That 's Michael . My brother .
ALLY: He looks like you or you look like him . Does he play around here ?
TYLER: Not any more .
ALLY: Do you play ?
TYLER: It depends who you ask .
ALLY: If I asked anybody ?
TYLER: They 'd say no . I try but it turns out you need talent .
ALLY: So what talents do you actually have ?
TYLER: Falconry . I come from a long line of falconers .
ALLY: There 's a lot of money in that .
TYLER: Well there is one thing
ALLY: What 's that ?
TYLER: Our appetizer .
ALLY: So what kind of grade did you end up with from Vogelstein ?
TYLER: I do n't actually get grades .
ALLY: Oh . And The Strand is not a significant career choice .
TYLER: I like the books .
ALLY: At the rate you 're going , dish washing is going to be your life 's vocation . I can say I knew you when .
TYLER: You make it sound so cheap .
ALLY: It is cheap . I 've seen this scene a hundred times .
TYLER: I 'm sorry . I did n't
ALLY: You know what never happens in this scene , Tyler-who-doesn't-really-go- to-school ? Tyler-who-doesn't-really care-about-his-job ?
TYLER: Apologize .
ALLY: Never . Your middle name is Keats ? Your parents are pretentious as hell .
TYLER: Apologize .
ALLY: I 'd rather eat monkeys .
TYLER: I surrender ! Oh my God , you 're elentless .
ALLY: Victory at all costs .
TYLER: Now I 'm furious .
ALLY: You should quit anyway .
TYLER: Really ? Why ? Are cigarettes like ad for you or something ?
ALLY: Is that a tattoo ? Let me see .
TYLER: It 's not really
ALLY: Please . It 's very bad ass . All that itualistic scarring .
TYLER: He killed himself .
ALLY: When ?
TYLER: When he was 21 . He had just started working for my father .
ALLY: I thought he was a musician .
TYLER: He was . But he was n't making a living doing music and my father 's a very compelling guy .
ALLY: Mine too .
AIDAN: Damn , you 're not naked .
TYLER: You 're not Irish .
AIDAN: T , What happened in the kitchen ? It looks like somebody 's water broke . Hi .
TYLER: Ally , Aidan Aidan , Ally .
AIDAN: Do n't feel bad that you 're more attracted to me than you are to him it happens to all of them .
ALLY: Oh ! You 're the assaholic !
AIDAN: Well , I Wait . What ?
ALLY: I ca n't , I would , I 'd love to , but I 've got ta get home , my dad 's waiting up .
AIDAN: Ally . Ally . Listen to me , young lady . One drink . From any country . I 'll even put France on the table . One drink . Your choice . And we 're gone .
ALLY: One drink ?
TYLER: One drink ?
AIDAN: One drink .
AIDAN: I 'm sorry .
ALLY: Tyler
TYLER: Oh . OK. Sure .
CRAIG: She was supposed to be back . She 's not back call Ted Proferes and what 's his face in the 9thand call me back . Just do it , Leo !
ALLY: oh God oh God oh God oh God
CRAIG: You turned your phone off .
ALLY: I forgot to charge it .
CRAIG: You were gone all night . I was trying to get some information .
ALLY: How could you go through my stuff like I 'm a suspect ?
CRAIG: Then stop acting like one .
ALLY: What is the matter with you , Dad ? You have no respect for me and the way I 'm feeling , my privacy . We talked about this ! You 're totally paranoid
CRAIG: You watch your mouth !
ALLY: You do n't do anything . You do n't go anywhere except work . You have no life .
CRAIG: My life is right here ! In this house . The same place as yours . But you 're spitting all over it .
ALLY: Jesus Christ , Dad ! I went on a date !
CRAIG: I smell alcohol
ALLY: So do I .
CRAIG: THIS IS MY HOUSE !
ALLY: YOU WAN NA BURY ME IN IT ?
CRAIG: Ally !
AIDAN: So ? She just left ? No good bye ?
TYLER: You were the one dumping Jello shots down her throat . You almost killed her .
AIDAN: There are sins of omission and sins of commission , my friend . I 've dealt with mine and I 've forgiven myself you should do the same .
TYLER: Penance . I have to get to work .
ALLY: I did n't know where else to go .
AIDAN: How 's she doin ' ?
TYLER: She 's pretty shaken up .
AIDAN: My bad . Sorry .
TYLER: Do n't be . You think she 'll sleep ?
AIDAN: You realize if she had had the
AIDAN: Too soon ?
TYLER: I told her she could stay here Are you alright with that ?
AIDAN: As long as she needs .
TYLER: You 're up .
JANINE: I ca n't believe you still come down here .
TYLER: It 's not so far . I ca n't believe you still get his coffee three sugars , no milk ?
JANINE: Old habits . You 're not writing anything bad about me , are you ?
TYLER: Not today .
JANINE: I got ta run . Early meetings .
TYLER: Hey
ALLY: Hey
TYLER: Downtown .
ALLY: Why ?
TYLER: There 's a coffee shop . I brought you a Bialy .
ALLY: New York is full of coffee shops .
TYLER: This one was our place Michael 's and mine . We had breakfast there all the time Maybe not as many times as I think we did . But enough times . Anyway we ate there that morning . It was the last place I saw him .
ALLY: Oh . So you go there to write ? To him ?
TYLER: Maybe . Sometimes . I do n't know . But I guess I wanted to tell him about you .
ALLY: My mom was murdered eight years ago . The same year your brothe died .
ALLY: Wounded ? Our house is like the ecovery room , or the critical care unit or something .
CRAIG: Tell me something , Matthews , do you like paperwork ?
MATTHEWS: No , sir .
CRAIG: Me neither . Nobody likes paperwork . But paperwork keeps our ship afloat . Paperwork makes it possible for me to keep track of all the scumbags . But I ca n't do that if newbies like you are incapable of emembering standard filing
LEO: Jim
CRAIG: What ?
LEO: Ally called Sharon .
CRAIG: What ?
LEO: She said to tell you , she 's with friends , and she 's fine .
CRAIG: What friends ?
LES: She did n't say .
CRAIG: That 's all ?
LEO: I 'm sorry , Jim . Listen , why do n't you come over this weekend ? We 'll get the grill going . Sharon wants to see you . We can have some people , nice peopleYou can circulate a little
CRAIG: No .
LEO: Jim
CRAIG: Leo , no . Stop .
AIDAN: Hello ?
DIANE: Aidan , it 's Diane .
AIDAN: Oh , hey Diane .
DIANE: You really have to fix that door . I 'm so sorry to just show up . I called but your phone was busy .
AIDAN: No problem . Come on in .
TYLER: Hey mom .
DIANE: Hey . I 'm so sorry honey . I tried to call but
ALLY: Hi . Nice to meet you .
DIANE: Ally . It 's lovely to met you . Just lovely .
TYLER: Sit down , Mom . Can I get you something ?
DIANE: Yes . Aidan , would you bring back that spliff , please ?
AIDAN: Uh..okay .
DIANE: Thank you .
AIDAN: How 's work , Diane ?
DIANE: Well I just found housing for a family that had been in shelters for three weeks . So that 's good . On the othe hand , I have six other families .
ALLY: Come on , Aidan .
AIDAN: What ?
ALLY: Nice to meet you , Diane .
AIDAN: Do n't freaking bogart that joint , Diane .
DIANE: Sorry .
TYLER: I wish she 'd told me . It was a unilateral Caroline decision . Will you make sausage and peppers ?
DIANE: Of course . Tyler , Your father is driving me crazy . I should n't even e discussing this with you . I ca n't get him to say he 'll come to your sister 's exhibit . Her art exhibit . He says he 's in the middle of an IPO .
TYLER: I 'll get him there .
DIANE: She cares about this , even though she 's pretending she does n't .
TYLER: I 'll get him there , mom .
DIANE: You will ?
TYLER: Yes .
DIANE: Thank you . Thank you .
TYLER: Diane
DIANE: Sorry . Sorry . I love you , darling , ut this place reeks of marijuana .
ALLY: That was weird . I assume most moms do n't smoke weed in front of thei son'sum
AIDAN: Piece of ass ?
ALLY: You know , you 're a poet .
AIDAN: Hey . I know one thing . I know that in the time I 've lived with Tyler , he has never introduced a girl womanfemaleto his mom before .
ALLY: It 's not like he had a choice . She ambushed us .
AIDAN: Yeah , but he would 've shoved you in a closet or something . Or literally pretended you were a hallucination .
ALLY: Ha ha .
AIDAN: I mean it . It 's the first time . Ever .
ALLY: Did it ever occur to you that that 's kind of weird ?
AIDAN: No .
JANINE: Charles , it 's your son .
CHARLES: What ?
JANINE: On the phone .
CHARLES: Okay .
TYLER: It 's about Caroline 's show . Are you planning on attending ?
CHARLES: I 'll make a reservation and have Janine call you .
CAROLINE: Make a wish .
ALLY: You 're the second member of this family I 've washed dishes with .
DIANE: He was doing it to impress you . He 's never washed a dish in his life .
ALLY: Wow .
CAROLINE: Do n't worry , I 'm not that impressionable .
ALLY: You know when I was younger , we did n't have air conditioning in the house , so during the summer my mom and I would go to museums to cool down she loved them all but The Met was always her favorite .
CAROLINE: Mine too . The Met is one of my favorite places in the world .
ALLY: So I heard you 've got an art exhibit coming up .
CAROLINE: You wan na come ?
ALLY: Was it that obvious ? But only if you 're OK with it . I do n't want to impose and I 'll completely understand if you do n't want some andom girl there .
CAROLINE: You 're not random you 're Tyler 's girlfriend .
ALLY: You like ?
TYLER: Let 's just skip dinner and I 'll tell you how great you look in like eighteen different languages .
ALLY: You just want to skip dinner . I got you a tie .
TYLER: I was going to make a joke about how I 'm not prepared for the commitment of exchanging accessories and how neck wea especially is a slippery slope , but I should probably shut up and say thank you .
ALLY: You 're learning .
TYLER: Have you ever been here ?
ALLY: Yeah . Every Tuesday with my pop .
TYLER: He 's allowed to stand me up . But he 's not allowed to stand you up . Or my sister .
CHARLES: Get me one too
WAITER: Yes . For the lady ?
ALLY: I 'm fine , thank you .
TYLER: This is Alicia Craig . Ally , my father , Charles Roth .
CHARLES: A pleasure .
ALLY: Yes . But with an area of focused esponsibility . It 's easier to find a job that way .
CHARLES: What will your area be ?
ALLY: Criminal Justice .
CHARLES: Tough area .
ALLY: When I was little I wanted to play first base for the Mets . I do n't think it 's any harder than that .
CHARLES: The Mets , huh .
ALLY: I 'm from Rockaway .
TYLER: Dad 's a Yankee fan . It has something to do with the payroll .
CHARLES: It has to do with significant ball playing . You were a Yankees fan when you were little . You were Lou Piniella for Halloween .
TYLER: Blind familial allegiance . I did n't know what overpriced , overfed , fat astards they were .
CHARLES: Who 's fat ? What Yankee is fat ? Tell me .
TYLER: It 's a metaphor
ALLY: Shane Spencer .
CHARLES: He 's big boned !
CHARLES: How long has your dad been a cop ?
ALLY: Twenty-two years .
CHARLES: Would you excuse me please I 'm so sorry .
ALLY: It 's OK .
CHARLES: I 'm sorryAnd your mother ?
ALLY: She passed away when I was eleven .
CHARLES: Ah .
ALLY: She was murdered . I was there .
TYLER: Why are you saying this now ?
ALLY: I do n't know .
CHARLES: And , here you are .
ALLY: Yup . Here I am .
TYLER: God .
CHARLES: I have to go to the office .
TYLER: You have somewhere else to be , Dad .
CHARLES: The exhibit runs til nine . You guys take the car . I 'll meet you .
TYLER: I do n't believe you .
CHARLES: That 's all there is , Tyler .
TYLER: It 's not good enough .
CHARLES: I do n't have to justify anything to you . Take the car . I 'll get a cab . I 'll meet you .
DIANE: I brought you every flavor .
CAROLINE: I 'm ready to go home now .
TYLER: Ally ?
ALLY: Where are you going ?
TYLER: I have something I 've got to do .
ALLY: Now ?
TYLER: Are you capable of taking care of yourself for an hour ? Do you need me here every minute , or what ?
JANINE: Tyler ? Tyler ? You ca n't just
CHARLES: It 's fine Janine .
TYLER: She drew you a picture .
CHARLES: Put it on the table .
TYLER: You have a daughter who sincerely elieves you do n't like her .
CHARLES: If I have any questions about what my daughter may believe , I 'll let you know .
TYLER: Do n't you at least want to know her ? She 's telling you something , Dad . She 's communicating . Why are n't you riveted ? Why is n't this the most important thing ? At least for one night of your life ?
CHARLES: I 've heard this song before , Tyler .
SUBORDINATE#1: We can come back
CHARLES: It 's fine , Khaleel .
TYLER: You , Mr. Roth .
CHARLES: She knows I will take care of her .
TYLER: And ?
SUBORDINATE#1: We really can come back another
CHARLES: Sit the fuck down .
TYLER: Maybe not . Maybe Caroline does n't either . Where would she have learned it ?
CHARLES: I have provided her world . And yours .
TYLER: That does not mean you 're allowed to shatter it whenever there 's something better to do .
CHARLES: Who the hell do you think you 're talking to ? You pedaled down here on your bike for Christ 's sake . You have to take care of nothing . You are responsible for no one . You 're a kid . You think you 're the first one to lose anything ? Do you think that there is anything you feel that I have n't already felt ?
TYLER: You did n't find him . I found him . And you 're so tragically blind , the est of your children are going to hang themselves on your watch .
JANINE: Stop ! Stop !
ALLY: Oh my God .
LES: I genuinely have no ideaare you having a seizure ?
CAROLINE: Time .
AIDAN: Berlin Alexanderplatz !
TYLER: Whose was that anyway ?
CAROLINE: Mine .
DIANE: Okay , you . Bed .
CAROLINE: Gross . Gross . Gross me out the door .
LES: You 're just the prettiest girl .
AIDAN: Holy crap . What 's with all the smiling ?
CAROLINE: A child could do Berlin Alexanderplatz , you spaz .
LES: Hey !
DIANE: I want five minutes with my child efore she ceases to be a child and decides I 'm ruining her life .
AIDAN: I want a girlfriend .
TYLER: What ?
AIDAN: Dinners out , movies . Regular sex . That could be all right . For like , a summer .
ALLY: You 're such a romantic .
AIDAN: And I 've had all the races .
ALLY: Excuse me ?
AIDAN: I 've had all the races . I 've been with girls from everyrace .
TYLER: That is the stupidest thing you 've ever said , including that time with the bong in the emergency room .
ALLY: White girl .
AIDAN: Please . Like falling off a log . As a matter of fact
ALLY: Shut up . Black girl .
AIDAN: But of course .
ALLY: Asian .
AIDAN: Twice .
ALLY: Latina .
AIDAN: Oui !
ALLY: A Latin girl actually slept with you ? What 's her name ? She 's out of the club .
AIDAN: Monica Ipellie . She works at the Public Library on 96th street .
ALLY: You slept with an Eskimo ?
TYLER: You went to the library ?
AIDAN: Inuit . In-u-it , Ally . Try not to show your ignorance .
ALLY: I do n't believe you .
AIDAN: Fine . Nice girl . While we were doing it , I could n't get this little , like , song out of my head
ALLY: Prove it . Ten bucks .
AIDAN: You wan na go to the library ?
ALLY: The minute we get off this train .
AIDAN: Fine .
ALLY: Tyler , are you coming ?
TYLER: I 'll skip this particula loodbath , thank you .
CRAIG: Where is she ?
TYLER: What are you doing in my house ?
CRAIG: Where 's my daughter ?
TYLER: She 's not here now . She 's at the library .
CRAIG: Does she know ?
TYLER: No .
CRAIG: I did n't think so . I figured you 'd probably leave that up to me when you 're done with her .
TYLER: I 'm not going anywhere .
CRAIG: That 's true , Tyler Roth , son of Charles and Diane . Brother of Caroline and Michael , deceased , suicide by hanging . You 're kinda lost , are n't you ? Taking a little vacation in coach before finding your way back to first class ?
TYLER: I 'm the one she came to when you used her face as a punching bag .
CRAIG: Get a fucking dead bolt .
ALLY: He banged an Inuit ! She 's really nice . And smart . I do n't get it .
TYLER: Your dad was here .
ALLY: What ?
TYLER: When I got home .
ALLY: I hate him !
TYLER: There 's more .
ALLY: I do n't understand .
TYLER: I mouthed off to him . He esponded . Then Aidan saw you guys together at school .
ALLY: I 'm going to be sick .
TYLER: Hey .
ALLY: Do you realize what you 've done ?
TYLER: Yeah .
ALLY: Did you think I would never find out ? I mean , think about it . I had to find out eventually . You set it up that way .
TYLER: But it does n't mean anything . I did n't mean to hurt you ,
ALLY: No . That 's exactly what you meant to do .
AIDAN: Hey .
ALLY: Prick .
AIDAN: You had to tell her eventually
ALLY: It takes off the teflon .
SERGEANT CRAIG: Okay .
ALLY: I 'm going upstairs .
CAROLINE: Stop smiling . You look insane .
DIANE: I 'm sorry , honey . I just it 's nice . Like an end of the summe send off .
CAROLINE: Mom ?
AIDAN: Hi .
CRAIG: You think I do n't remember you ?
AIDAN: No , sir .
ALLY: Who is it Dad ?
AIDAN: Look , I 'm a prick .
ALLY: And
AIDAN: Tyler 's not .
ALLY: He lied to me .
AIDAN: He 's in love with you .
ALLY: He 'd like to think he is .
AIDAN: I do n't know what that meansI 've seen him look at one other girl the way he looks at you . She 's a lot shorter and shares his DNA .
CRAIG: Thanks for stopping by .
DIANE: Are you telling me , Ms. Spencer , that you intend to let those girls stay in your school ? Of course they 're all sticking to the same story and that story is a load of crap !
LES: She 's pretty traumatized . I wanted to pull some names together in case we all decide she should talk to someone
TYLER: She 's asleep .
ALLY: I do n't care .
TYLER: I know you 're not here for me but , thank you for being here .
ALLY: It 's not worth much . You made everything between us a lie .
TYLER: I 'm sorry .
ALLY: Okay . Now what ? I 'm supposed to just forgive you ?
CHARLES: How is she ?
TYLER: She 's sleeping .
CHARLES: How long do you think she 'll sleep ?
DIANE: I think she 'll be out for a while . Would you like to wait ?
CHARLES: Thank you . I ca n't . I 'll call he later .
DIANE: I 'll tell her .
TYLER: You okay ?
MEAN GIRL: Have you done something different with your hair ? I love it !
TEACHER: Okay , okay . Enough .
BAILIFF: You posted .
CHARLES: Destruction of private property and felony trespassing .
TYLER: I did n't call you .
CHARLES: I know you did n't .
TYLER: Thank you for bailing me out .
CHARLES: No problem .
ALLY: Using the little sister is dirty pool .
TYLER: Is it working ?
ALLY: Maybe .
TYLER: HeyHey .
ALLY: Hmmm .
TYLER: I 'll be back in an hour . I have to stop by my dad 's office .
ALLY: Do you want french toast o pancakes for breakfast ?
TYLER: Whichever tastes better a la mode .
ALLY: Say hi to your dad for me .
TYLER: If I said I love you what would you say ?
ALLY: I love you .
TYLER: I love you too .
AIDAN: French toast .
DIANE: Charles ?
CHARLES: Good morning Diane .
DIANE: What are you doing here ?
CHARLES: Tyler 's coming by the office , but I thought I 'd ride to school with Caroline first .
DIANE: UmOKsureyeahgreat . She 's not ready though , she 's going to need at least twenty minutes .
CHARLES: All right .
TYLER: Are you canceling all together o are you just running late ?
CHARLES: Are you already on your way ?
TYLER: I 'm already here .
CHARLES: I 'm taking Caroline to school .
TYLER: Take your time . I 'll just wait in your office .
CHARLES: It may be a while .
TYLER: That 's okay .
THE RECEPTIONIST: She went for coffee .
TYLER: She getting me any ? Just kidding .
JANINE: Good Morning , Mister Roth .
TYLER: Did you know about this ?
JANINE: Who do you think scanned all the pictures ?
TYLER: Twenty-nine last May .
JANINE: It 's really been that long ? I could 've sworn it was
TYLER: May 18 , 1993 .
JANINE: I should be able to remember that . I 'm sorry .
TYLER: It 's okay .
TEACHER: Caroline ? Hello ?
MICHAEL ROTH: May 20 , 1969 May 18 , 1993
TYLER ROTH: June 17 , 1978 September 11 , 2001
SUMMERALL: That play , my friends , sums up the Redskins ' unning game all day long . Now Washington calls their last time out . Madden leans over to do his diagram that shows up on your TV screen . We STAY ON him as he draws and explains .
MADDEN: Hey , the Dolphins do this as good as anybody . See , in a four , three , two , two , you got the guards oom ! Plugging up the middle , then the corners boom and
SUMMERALL: Third and twenty-two , ut forget the first down with eight seconds showing and the Skins down by a touchdown .
MADDEN: Could be the last play .
SUMMERALL: Could be the last play of the season if the players go out .
SUMMERALL: Here we go Third down , eight seconds to play , ball on the Dolphins ' thirty-three yard line . Skins down y a touchdown . The huddle breaks and Martel sets up over the center .
MARTEL: Green 48 ! Green 48 ! Hut ! Hut ! The ball is snapped and Martel drops back . He looks for a receiver and does n't see anybody . He steps up in the pocket , sees an opening and takes off running down field .
SUMMERALL: Well Martel goes down ten yards short of a score .
MADDEN: On maybe the last play of the season .
SUMMERALL: I think he might have slipped .
MADDEN: Yeah , there 's a lot of that going around .
BOB: We 're coming to you house tonight , and we 're gon na fucking kill you ! And if you got a dog , we 're gon na kill your fucking dog too !
AUGUSTINE: Did they win or lose ? ! O'Neil continues to wail .
O'NEIL: If you keep talking to me like I 'm a five- year-old , I 'm going to hurt you .
AUGUSTINE: Sounds exciting . He reaches for the phone and hits the speed dial .
O'NEIL: What the fuck was that ? !
TILDON: I think he slipped .
O'NEIL: Bullshit he slipped ! He could have scored !
TILDON: Mister O'Neil , let 's face facts The players are going out . It 's gon na happen . And nobody wants to get hurt on the last play efore a strike that could go on for the est of the season .
O'NEIL: You god damn wimp ! You 're fired ! Get out ! Get out ! Get out ! O'Neil throws the phone down . Augustine picks it up and then cranks up the oxygen a notch . O'Neil takes big gulps of the rich air .
AUGUSTINE: Better ? It always makes you feel bette when you fire someone , we know it does , do n't we ? Yes
O'NEIL: Get me Jimmy McGinty . Get him here . Tonight . O'Neil sucks hard on the oxygen .
WILSON: Hey , man , I do what my
REPORTER: But you 're already one of the highest paid players in the game . The fans just do n't see the point of a playe like you striking .
WILSON: Let me tell you something I 'm a big man , you see ? Wilson holds his arms out . Yes , he 's gigantic .
WILSON: Shit , I 'm goin ' to Vegas .
O'NEIL: I 'm dying , Jimmy . McGINTY
O'NEIL: Jimmy , I 'm really dying . The doctor says I 'll be gone by Superbowl Sunday . Help me bring a winner back to D.C. You did it fo me once before . You can do it again . McGINTY Listen I golf once a week with the President of the United States . I walk my grandkids to school every day . I
PILACHOWSKI: Six phone lines with internet access on two One for defense and one for offense .
BANES: We thought we would skip special teams fo the moment .
PILACHOWSKI: Except for a kicker . We definitely need a kicker . A place kicke over a punter .
BANES: The thinking being that if we lose the toss , we have to be able to at least kick off . Both coaches laugh nervously . McGinty does n't say anything .
PILACHOWSKI: Okay . Here 's the list of every player cut this past season . What we would like to do is McGINTY
EVANS: You wo n't need a center . McGINTY How you doin ' , Reese ?
BIKER: Did you hear something ? The other biker shakes his head , no . The one who asked the question walks over to the door and listens for a beat . Nothing . He turns to go back and suddenly the doo disintegrates in front of a charging man wearing a `` police '' windbreaker . This is DANIEL BATEMAN , a big , young ,
COP #1: Jesus , Bateman ! Why do n't you ever wait fo us ? ! BEEP ! BEEP ! BEEP ! Someone 's BEEPER is going off . The three cops look at theirs . Nothing . The cowering Biker looks at his .
BIKER #2: Not me . Bateman pulls his beeper , studies it and looks puzzled .
BATEMAN: What area code is 703 ?
COP #1: Washington , D.C .
KID: Nice hands .
CLIFFORD: What else ?
KID: A pack of Marlboro Reds , a pint of Martel Cognac and a box of Trojans , extra long . Clifford grabs the Kid 's two one-dolla ills , and makes change for the bread .
CLIFFORD: Get out of here . I 'm telling your mother you were talking like that . The Kid leaves . The Manager yells from the back of the store as he holds up a portable phone .
MANAGER: Hey , Clifford , somebody on the phone wants you to play football next weekend .
CLIFFORD: Tell 'em I got ta work Saturday . And I 'm watching the Redskins on Sunday . Ai n't nothing stopping me from watching the Redskins on Sunday . No way that 's gon na be
MANAGER: He 's got ta work . They said they 'll pay you .
CLIFFORD: Pay me ? How much ?
MANAGER: How much ? Ten thousand five hundred dollars !
CLIFFORD: Ray , who the fuck is on the phone ? !
MANAGER: It 's the Washington Redskins ! Clifford collapses .
JAMAL: Get out of the way ! Do n't look at him ! He do n't like being looked at , god damn it ! No eye contact ! As they walk , Andre is still talking on the phone . Finally , they get to the backstage door and stop . The rock star prepares to run the gauntlet of adoring fans behind his trusty odyguards . But his bodyguards are conversing quietly but urgently with each other . One of the assistants throws open the door . A big mob waits outside . The anointed one turns to his bodyguards to lead the way , but they 're gone ! The mob surges . The artist formerly known as Prince screams as he 's trampled to death by his fans .
SHANE: And you look like that coach from the Seventies . From the Redskins . McGinty . Except you look a shitload older . McGINTY The price of happiness . Something to take the chill off ? He offers Shane an elegant flask . Shane takes it and drinks . McGINTY I 'm running the Redskins again . And I want you to quarterback 'em .
PASSERBY #1: Deuce and an eightball on Go Down , Rita in the eighth . Lou writes quickly on a small pad . After a beat , another passerby leans in and whispers something to Lou . Lou writes quickly again . From across the street an old woman sticks her head out of a four-story walk-up . This is LOU 'S MOTHER who speaks with a heavy Italian accent .
MOTHER: Louis , you got a phone call !
LOU: Who is it ?
MOTHER: It 's the Washington Foreskins .
LOU: What ? ! Ma , what are you , out a your tree ?
MOTHER: I 'm telling you they said it 's the
ROLAND: Cut right on me , now . Right on me . He pitches the ball out to one kid , who runs ight at him , steps on Roland 's foot with his cleats and then cuts around him . Roland screams and falls to the ground .
EVANS: Nice . Try a roll to the right .
O'NEIL: Christ , Jimmy , I ask you to build me a team ased on balls and the first player I see is Footsteps Falco ? ! McGINTY He 's got as much natural talent as any quarterback in the league .
AUGUSTINE: Here we go . Nice fat little hits . He turns the valve up . O'Neil breathes deeply .
O'NEIL: I called a friend of mine who just happens to be the Governor of Maryland . McGINTY Terrific , the Governo is going to play safety ?
REPORTER: As president of the Players ' Association , what does your presence mean here , Miste Lindell ?
LINDELL: Very simply , support for these fine players and union men . Washington D.C. is the home of freedom and the collective bargaining agreement . I am here to remind all Americans that the owners are no etter than the robbe arons of the Nineteenth Century . They have blatantly gone out and hired scabs , which is against all principles of ou Constitution and the Declaration of Independence and probably even the Emancipation Proclamation . The picketers start shouting and pointing .
PLAYERS: Scabskins ! Scabskins ! Scabskins !
CLIFFORD: Oh God , there 's Eddie Martel ! And Wilson Jones ! I love Wilson Jones ! Yo , Wilson ! Yo , player !
LOU: Hey , Lou Pacifico . Shane shakes his hand .
SHANE: Shane Falco .
LOU: I know . I lost a ton a money on that Suga Bowl disaster of yours . Wow . Did you get you utt kicked or what ?
JAMAL: You know I do n't take that shit . Jamal reaches into his jacket and starts to pull out a nine-millimeter pistol . Andre stops him .
ANDRE: Be cool .
PLAYERS: Scabskins ! Scabskins ! When Reese Evans gets off the bus , the players go wild . Reese coolly gives them the international suck my dick sign . Clifford gets off behind him . He waves and smiles at the striking players . They throw rotten fruit at Clifford in eturn .
SID: He told me he was a linebacker !
SHANE: I can see . McGinty holds up three fingers . McGINTY How many fingers ?
PILACHOWSKI: Oh my God . That 's disgusting ! Lee walks up . McGinty bows and says something in Japanese . Lee bows and answers ack in Japanese . Then they shake hands . McGINTY How you doin ' , Mickey ?
LEE: Not bad , Coach . McGINTY You look great . Why do n't you work out at left tackle ?
PILACHOWSKI: You 're not serious . McGINTY I met Mickey in Hawaii . When he was even igger . He 's a Sumo wrestler . That means he 's an expert at pushing people around .
BANES: I got a defensive end who 's deaf ! !
PILACHOWSKI: I 'll trade you for a tackle who 's gon na play in a diaper .
BANES: How can I coach a deaf man ? ! McGINTY You do n't have to He looks across the field at a big , good- looking kid named BRIAN MURRAY who is in the middle of a pass rushing drill . Murray looks really fast , especially for his size . McGINTY Brian Murray would have gone in the first round five years back if he had n't been born deaf . I first saw him play ight here in D.C. fo Galludet College . He 's a hell of an athlete . You wo n't have to tell him anything .
SHANE: Oh shit ! No ! He throws the ball away and then is nailed and taken down on his back by Bateman . Shane groans and lies there with Bateman on top of him .
BATEMAN: Hi , I 'm Danny .
SHANE: Shane . McGinty pulls Bateman up . McGINTY Nice pop , Danny .
BATEMAN: Thank 's , Coach ! Danny runs off .
SHANE: What was that ? McGINTY Danny Bateman . Ex-cop , ex-Marine , ex-rugby . He 's absolutely harmless , if you just play dead . McGinty helps Shane up . McGINTY San Diego used you all wrong . You 're not a
ANNABELLE: Annabelle Farrell , head Redskinette .
SHANE: Excuse me ?
ANNABELLE: I 'm in charge . Of the Redskinettes . The cheerleaders ?
SHANE: Oh yeah , hi .
ANNABELLE: I 've been watching you . You look good . You look strong . Good quick release . Smart . You read defenses quickly . You 're gon na do great .
SHANE: Hey thanks .
ANNABELLE: I saw your second concussion . The one
SHANE: I guess so .
ANNABELLE: If there 's anything you need , let me know . And I mean anything , okay ? You understand ? Shane is really not sure .
SHANE: Sure . I understand .
ANNABELLE: They put you up at the Hilton ?
SHANE: Yeah .
ANNABELLE: Good . Remember anything . You got it ? Okay ? Shane nods . She walks away . We watch her world-class ass move across the gridiron . ON McGINTY AND CLIFFORD FRANKLIN McGinty is holding a ball and talking to his wide receiver . McGINTY because it 's a damn waste of all that speed , Clifford . I told you that when you were in high school . You 've got to catch the all , son . This is the main idea of the passing game .
CLIFFORD: I know , Coach , I know . McGINTY Okay . I assume that you have touched a woman in a romantic way , have you not ?
SHANE: just glad to be ack playing . That 's all I 've really got to say .
REPORTER: But where have you een ? What have you een doing to make a living ?
SHANE: Well I 've been involved lately in the aquatic usiness
MICKEY: You only played one game ? !
ROLAND: Actually , less than two minutes . I was a ookie third round pick in '93 . We were playing Atlanta in the home opener . Near the end of the first quarter , they sent me in , I took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both linebackers . Simultaneously . One a
MICKEY: Can you play on it now ? Roland takes out a wrench and starts unscrewing a bolt on his brace .
ROLAND: I 've been teaching high school football fo five years . It 's not a ad life . I 'm good at it . There are some days when I actually love it . But for one more shot at this ? Shit . I 'd give it all up . This time , they 're gon na have to take me out in a box .
CLIFFORD: I got Wilson Boone 's locker , man . Do you elieve that shit ? He drops his ball and quickly picks it up again . He looks around to make sure Coach did n't see him .
MARTEL: Hey , you ca n't park there .
SHANE: Look , I do n't want any trouble .
MARTEL: You do n't want any trouble ? ! You 're taking my job away , but you do n't want any trouble ? He does n't want any trouble , but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone . Shane looks but it 's obvious he 's parked legally .
SHANE: Okay . I 'll move it .
MARTEL: No , we 'll do that fo you . Go ahead , Wilson . Move it for him . Wilson motions to another big guy . The two of them proceed to roll the Honda over on its oof . It lands with a crunch .
WILSON: Who the fuck are you ?
ANDRE: We 're the people who take care of the quarterback . We 're the guards . All the regulars laugh at this .
JAMAL: Put the car back . Gently .
WILSON: Kiss my ass .
SHANE: It 's okay .
JAMAL: No , it 's not . Jamal points to a gorgeous midnight blue Porsche .
WILSON: My windshield ! You crazy motherfucker !
JAMAL: Move his car back .
WILSON: My car !
JAMAL: No I 'm not . And quit messing with my man here . That includes his ride . Jamal spins the nine and holsters it . Andre and Jamal get on either side of Shane . They look at each other and then quickly switch sides .
ANDRE: Let 's go to practice , Shane .
SHANE: Let 's do that . Shane smiles at his guards , smiles at the still-shocked Redskins , and they move out .
WALTER: Praise the Lord , Shane .
SHANE: Yeah . Sure .
WALTER: Walt Cochran . Offensive tackle . Shane nods . Walter pees for a beat .
SHANE: Will I what ?
WALTER: Will you witness with me ? For this upcoming practice .
SHANE: Now ? By now Shane is pissing too .
WALTER: Praise the Lord fo giving us a way to eliminate , Shane . Why not talk to Him in the midst of performing his gift ? Walter takes his hand off his whizzing membe and holds it out to Shane . Shane looks at Walter 's hand for a long time ,
WALTER: Heavenly Father , thank you for allowing us to pee the poisons from our systems . Please help us in today 's practice to be strong and
BANES: Where did you play , Judge ? Wait . Do I call you judge ?
JUDGE: Your Honor , or Judge is fine . I played at Harvard . But I played in the days when you went both ways . Offense and defense . When players were eally tough . And where did you play college ball I 'm sorry , what was you name again ? Wilkinson is smiling but he looks dangerous .
WILKINSON: Smith . Ray Smith . I played at a junio college nobody eve heard of . What position did you play on defense , Judge ?
JUDGE: Middle linebacker .
WILKINSON: Yeah , big fellow like you , that 's what I would have guessed .
JUDGE: It was a different game in those days . Raw . Powerful . No tricks , like today .
WILKINSON: You know , maybe you can show me some of you technique , Your Honor . Maybe you can show me some of that toughness .
JUDGE: I 'd be glad to !
ANNABELLE: You would think he 's done enough .
SHANE: I was kind of thinking the same thing .
ANNABELLE: My theory is he came out of retirement to see if he could win with losers . Oh , shit . I 'm sorry . I did n't mean
SHANE: Hey , it 's okay . I 've een called worse .
ANNABELLE: Like after that Suga Bowl game ? I guess you could survive anything after that . Shane has to actually smile at this .
SHANE: Sometimes I feel like everybody in the world saw that game . Like I could go to India and some little guy would un up to me and say , 'Boy , did you suck in
ANNABELLE: My dad . He 's a huge Redskin fan . Fo years . He 's in his twenty-ninth year at the Senate Office Building . As a guard , not a senator . The only thing that keeps him going he says , is me and the Redskins . That 's where I get it . My fan-ness . Are you scared ? Shane is totally taken off guard by this woman .
SHANE: Scared ? Well yes . Absolutely .
ANNABELLE: It 's okay . Anybody would be . But you 're good . And you 'll do good .
SHANE: Well , thank you . Look , I got ta study the play ook tonight . So I 'll see you .
ANNABELLE: Break a leg tomorrow .
SHANE: What ? !
ANNABELLE: It 's from the theater . For opening night . You say the worst thing that can happen . And
JUDGE: Alright , this is how we used to stop a running ack .
WILKINSON: I ca n't wait . Someone says hut ! And Wilkinson slams into the Republican 16th Circuit Court Judge and knocks him head over heels . The Judge lands on his back , wham ! He 's out cold . Wilkinson slaps hands with Andre and Jamal .
LINDELL: Do n't be asking for no autographs from the eal players and then go in and watch the scabs ! The kid retreats quickly . Lindell rips up the page .
EVANS: You okay ? Shane nods and gives a nauseous-looking smile .
SHANE: Nod my head ?
EVANS: For when Murray 's in . The deaf kid . Hello ? He needs to look at you on the snap . Shane nods that he understands but he goes
PILACHOWSKI: What are you , crazy ? Nobody eats right efore a game .
LEE: I always ate before a ig match . I need the ulk . Like a hole in the head he needs the bulk . Coach McGinty comes strolling through the locker room , the picture of calm . He walks by defensive end/tight end Brian Murray and signs to him to have a good game . Murray signs back , `` Thanks , Coach . '' Cochran spots McGinty and puts down his Bible .
MADDEN: Pretty bold move by New England Patriot owner Victor Kiam , who went out and bought an entire semi-pro team once the strike happened .
SUMMERALL: Like Shane Falco , the enormously talented college quarterback from Ohio State , who never fulfilled his potential in the pro 's . Wow , remember that
MADDEN: Oh , yeah , they were absolutely decimated !
SUMMERALL: Dusted . And if I 'm not mistaken , Falco set a ecord in that game fo Bowl interceptions . Anyway , for some of these players this is another shot ; a last shot , probably , for a guy like Falco
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen , your Washington Redskins !
ANNOUNCER: Here 's the starting defense today
SUMMERALL: Oh , my
JAMAL: Bastards .
ANNOUNCER: And now uh , the rest of the Washington Redskins . The rest of the team walks unceremoniously out of the helmet and onto the field .
ANDRE: That 's where I stand .
LEE: No it 's not .
ANDRE: Come on , man , that 's my spot in the huddle .
ANDRE: Fat fucking nip ! You do n't know shit !
LEE: What did you call me ? !
ANDRE: You heard me , you tub a ice shit !
SHANE: Hold on , what 's the problem here ? Andre and Lee ignore Shane and start pushing each other .
LEE: I 'm gon na kick you lack ass
ANDRE: You ai n't kickin ' jack shit Now Jamal gets involved as Shane tries to get
JAMAL: Do n't be messing with my brother
SHANE: Hey , hold on
REF: Delay of game ! Five yards !
SUMMERALL: I do n't know . Something seems to be going on in the huddle . It looks like yes , Shane Falco is on his ack . They have n't run a play yet but Falco is down .
MADDEN: This is not a good sign .
SHANE: What happened ? Am I hurt already ? Shane sits up . Suddenly , he remembers what happened .
ANDRE: Yeah , but he took my place
SHANE: I do n't give a shit ! Shane gets to his feet .
LEE: Suppose like , you do n't feel good . Or you 're hurt or something like that . Then what ?
SHANE: Then you tell me before the huddle starts ! Okay , listen up 68 lue east storm toss . On two .
JAMAL: That 's to the right ight ?
ANDRE: No , it 's to the left .
SHANE: It 's to the right !
JAMAL: You better be quiet , Shane , they 'll hea you .
REF: Delay of game ! Five yards ! Shane throws ups his hands . ON McGINTY He 's talking into his mike . McGINTY What the hell is going on ?
MADDEN: Well , Pat , so far the Redskins have minus ten yards offensively .
SHANE: Blue 68 . Blue 68 ! Hut ! Hut ! On the snap , Shane turns to head off to Lamont but instead runs right into Jamal who knocks him down . Shane looks up at Jamal .
JAMAL: Oh . You said it was to the right , did n't you ?
SHANE: Okay . Let 's try something simple . 18 ed left slot open . That 's to the left ! They break and Shane lines up over his center .
REF: Holding ! Number 78 . Shane looks at Jamal who is trying desperately to hide his number . Shane leans in with the next play . Cochran , playing right tackle , ca n't resist .
COCHRAN: You see . We should have prayed .
SHANE: Shut up ! Pass . 22 Solo right slot ' A , ' Y stick . On one . They break and come to the line of scrimmage .
SUMMERALL: Washington comes up a minus fourteen yards on their first possession .
EARL: Wide right ! You got wide right ! Check on the wing ! The PATRIOT QUARTERBACK sets up over center .
PATRIOT QB: Blue fourteen ! Bam ! Bateman runs offside and flattens the quarterback . Penalty flags fly everywhere .
PATRIOT QB: Green eighty-seven ! Pow ! Bateman dives offside again and forearms the Quarterback , knocking him on his ack . Flags fly again . One Patriot lineman makes the mistake of pushing Bateman . Bateman literally jumps on his head . More flags fly .
SUMMERALL: I think the Redskins just set a record fo penalties in the first three minutes . We 're waiting for the stats on that Here come the Patriots again .
SHANE: What ?
LEE: I do n't feel good . And with that he promptly vomits sixteen eggs .
ANDRE: Oh , God !
COCHRAN: Oooooh
JAMAL: Man , that 's ripe ! Everyone is reacting . Some players gag .
EVANS: Shane , we got to move !
SHANE: Okay . On the count of three . Everyone more left . Hut ! Hut ! Hut !
PATRIOT LB: What the fuck is this ?
SUMMERALL: John , how many years have we been calling games together ?
MADDEN: Seventeen , I think . Pat just hands John the binoculars .
SHANE: U brown right , west 19 A lead . That 's you , Mickey . Puke on him if you have to .
SUMMERALL: That puts the Redskins in field goal range . And here comes Pacifico to see if he can get them on the board efore the half ends .
SHANE: Hut ! It 's a perfect snap . Shane spots it , Pacifico belts it . And it goes through for three .
SHANE: We ca n't put three plays together without a penalty , a fumble of a fight . McGINTY You still got a whole half left . You 're a thoroughbred out there unning against a bunch a nags . You can pick these fuckers apart . Shane smiles through his pain .
SUMMERALL: Another terrific interception by Smith . That 's his second .
MADDEN: Yeah , this guy is a player . He finds the paper he 's looking for .
SHANE: Okay , let 's all take a few seconds to think about what we were doing for a living just last week . Shane looks around the huddle . Everybody looks pained and/or depressed .
SHANE: Hut , hut ! Shane rolls left but there 's a blitz ! The cornerback is almost on him when Shane shifts and rolls the other way .
SUMMERALL: Falco is intercepted . That 's too bad .
BATEMAN: The ball . Okay , Coach . He runs out onto the field .
PATRIOT QB: Hut , hut , hut ! The quarterback hands off to the running back ight up the middle in a typical `` run out the clock '' play . BAM ! Bateman comes out of nowhere , decks the unner and literally rips the ball out of his hands as he goes down .
SHANE: I ca n't
SUMMERALL: Here comes Falco with eighteen seconds left on the clock .
SHANE: 22 green !
ANDRE: What 's that mean ?
REESE: He 's changing the play . Listen !
SHANE: Black 43 !
LAMONT: Is this right ?
SHANE: Black 43 left ! Lamont shifts again . Clifford goes in motion from his flanker position but then changes his mind and goes back the other way . Lamont and Clifford then bump into each other .
SHANE: Hut ! Hut ! He turns to hand the ball off to Lamont but Lamont is not there . Shane turns the other way and sees Lamont just standing there looking at him . Shane uns over to him and hands him the ball . Meanwhile , the Patriot defense is going the other direction . Lamont takes off . One cornerback is not taken in . The guy dives for Lamont 's legs . We hear a CLANK as the cornerback 's HELMET hits Lamont 's industrial KNEE BRACE . The guy bounces off and Lamont trots into the end zone .
SUMMERALL: Lamont scores !
SUMMERALL: With eight seconds emaining , Pacifico will try the extra point that will send this game into overtime .
SHANE: Hut ! Shane catches the snap and pitches the ball out to Murray from his holding position .
REESE: We won , Shane . We won ! Shane manages a painful smile .
SHANE: ultimately , it 's a pain thing , you know ? I mean , it 's Darwinian , the survival of the numbest . Whoever can take the pain most , gets the largest contract . It 's sick . He finishes his martini and throws the olive over his shoulder .
WOMAN: IN RED Exactly . Let me buy you another . She signals to the bartender .
SHANE: I 'm glad that you are concerned .
ANNABELLE: Go away . Both of you .
SHANE: These are my guests .
ANNABELLE: You were about to be olled .
SHANE: That 's what I was hoping .
ANNABELLE: They work the ba downstairs looking fo drunk Redskins . Shane looks embarrassed .
SHANE: I guess they found one .
ANNABELLE: Do n't feel so bad . It 's a rookie mistake . She turns and sees that he 's already passed out . She looks at him not unkindly . Then she unbuckles his belt and starts pulling his pants off .
ANNABELLE: Here . Take this .
SHANE: What is it ?
ANNABELLE: It 's for the pain . Take it . It 's only a little bit illegal . Shane takes it and swigs a glass of water .
SHANE: Oh , God . I 've got to go to the bathroom . It 's far away , is n't it ?
ANNABELLE: I 'll help . We 'll just take our time . She helps him get out of bed . When he
SHANE: Oh , man . My hai hurts .
ANNABELLE: You took a hell of a eating . The martinis did n't help , either . She walks him to the bathroom like an old man . He shuffles in and closes the door .
SHANE: No blood .
ANNABELLE: Good . Back to bed . He leans on her as she walks him back . He gets into bed with a moan .
SHANE: May I ask you a personal question ? She nods .
ANNABELLE: Of course not .
SHANE: Then why me ? Annabelle takes her time answering .
ANNABELLE: I do n't know . I guess I ca n't resist a man who can take a hit .
SHANE: I ca n't take a hit ! Annabelle cradles his head .
ANNABELLE: Shhh . It 's all in you head . Now , get some sleep .
SHANE: McGinty called a dinne meeting with the whole team . Shane tries to put on his coat , but he 's so sore he ca n't . Annabelle helps him .
ANNABELLE: No . Probably just you wallet and your watch .
SHANE: And that pill , that sure worked .
ANNABELLE: You 're basic double D Vicodin . But be careful It 's habit- forming . The best stuff always is . There 's another awkward silence .
SHANE: Well
ANNABELLE: Ice both knees and that shoulder before bed .
O'NEIL: I 'll give you 50 thousand dollars for a ite of that steak ! McGinty taps his glass at the head of the table and stands . McGINTY Alright , listen up There have been a lot of rumors about the egular players crossing the picket lines . They are not umors . Many union players have now seen the error of their ways and are coming back in
REPORTER: Coach , what will be your strategy against New York this Sunday ? Out in the restaurant , patrons see the players and a few break into `` Hail to the Redskins . '' Suddenly , the whole restaurant starts singing . Shane looks embarrassed . Pacifico stands up on his seat , and conducts the singing . Andre and Jamal hold their lobsters in the air and make them dance to the song .
NEWSPERSON: The Palm patrons showed an impromptu appreciation tonight for the new Washington Redskins . They may be unknowns and far from superstars , but it sure looks like they have charmed the fans . Martel looks very angry .
SHANE: Hi . Come in .
ANNABELLE: No . She gives him a bottle of pills .
SHANE: Wow . Thanks .
ANNABELLE: I 'll be watching on TV . The Giants got back three of their fou defensive linemen .
SHANE: Yeah . I know .
ANNABELLE: What can I say ? Go from the shotgun and scramble your ass off . Shane smiles at her . She suddenly grabs him and they kiss big- time . Then she breaks and walks quickly away . Shane does n't know what to make of this .
MORRIS: Hello , again !
MADDEN: That 's all-pro Hank Morris 's third sack , his second here in the fourth quarter and the sixth of the day fo
SUMMERALL: If he can stay alive that long . Ten-three New York in what has turned out to be an incredible defensive duel .
LINDELL: because it 's about others , and otherhood and standing togethe against the oppressors . That 's why I am so grateful to ou Teamster brothers who have joined us here today in New York to protest the greed squad known as the N.F.L . owners . The truck driver suddenly pumps his arm and a
SHANE: You got to double up on Morris .
EVANS: He 's too far outside for me to get to him . Bring him down and sit on him .
COCHRAN: He 's huge ! He 's been eating the crap out of me all day ! I feel like a rag doll out here .
LEE: I 'll help this time .
SHANE: Okay . Spread left ' A ' Right , roll right Half Back Sail . On two . They break . Shane sets up in the shotgun .
SHANE: Huddle up ! Everyone gathers around .
LEE: What ?
EVANS: Shane
SHANE: Shut up ! Let him through . On two . They break the huddle . Shane goes into a shotgun .
O'NEIL: Now that 's a hit !
MADDEN: Lee scores ! Lee scores ! Lee scores ! I love to see a fat guy score !
PACIFICO: What a hit ! What a hit ! Murray nods that he understands .
EVANS: I 'm proud of you , kid . Jamal and Andre are hugging Lee . In the .g. , we can see paramedics lifting one of Lee 's four fans onto a stretcher .
ANDRE: You 're the one , you 're the one , you 're the one
LEE: You think that 's worth a shoe deal ? McGinty walks into the middle of it . McGINTY Stop with the lovefest ! Let 's get the goddamn all back and win this thing !
SHANE: No ! Danny , go down ! You 're using up the clock ! But Bateman likes this new job kick-off eturner ! Especially after he runs over a Giant and stiff-arms another . Bateman is finally trapped on the fa sideline after gaining perhaps eight yards . So , he turns and starts running back the other way . Shane has been chasing him and now sees Bateman running back at him . Shane has no choice but to throw himself in front of Bateman 's legs . Bateman goes down . Shane jumps up
BATEMAN: Beautiful tackle , Shane !
SUMMERALL: Now that 's something you do n't see everyday !
SHANE: We got time for one play , but if we do n't get it out of bounds , the game is over . McGINTY Yeah , but you 're looking at a sixty-five yard kick from here .
PACIFICO: No problem .
SHANE: Seriously ?
PACIFICO: You hold it . I 'll kick it . McGinty looks at Shane and they both shrug . McGINTY What the fuck .
MADDEN: I ca n't believe it ! McGinty is gon na let Pacifico try the field goal from sixty-five yards out !
SUMMERALL: Hey , John , this kid has got a heck of a foot .
STRAM: But sixty-five yards ? Come on !
SUMMERALL: No , I think you imagined that one , John . Shane looks at Pacifico and his clean uniform . Then Shane looks at his own uniform which is covered with blood , dirt , and grass stains . Pacifico looks clean .
SHANE: You look great , Lou , you know that ? Pacifico is really touched .
LOU: Really ? Thanks , Shane . That means a lot to me . Shane turns to Evans who smiles at him etween his own legs .
SHANE: Hut !
ANNABELLE: Are you hurt ?
SHANE: No . Not really .
ANNABELLE: You 're getting used to eing slapped around . That 's a good sign .
ANNABELLE: Would you like to come in and make love ?
SHANE: Yes . No . I 'm here ecause I do n't want to be alone .
ANNABELLE: Most of the world feels that way . You do n't have to be embarrassed about it .
SHANE: But to tell you the truth I 'm kind of scared of you . Annabelle takes that in and thinks about it .
ANNABELLE: I wo n't hurt you . She takes his hand and leads him inside .
SHANE: You know what hurts
ANNABELLE: I ca n't imagine .
SHANE: Their defensive end punched me in the mouth . Annabelle starts laughing .
ANNABELLE: Okay . Calm down .
SHANE: Anyway , after that , I could never seem to adjust in the pros . I was too scared . I lost my balls . We see Annabelle 's hand move slightly unde
ANNABELLE: Well , they 're back .
SHANE: You know what I mean . My nerve . I lost the edge you need to play this game .
ANNABELLE: I do n't believe that . I do n't think it just goes away . It was only one bad day , Shane . Everybody has those .
SHANE: No . Somehow , I convinced myself that I could n't ever win the ig game . I got so down , that I was afraid to be playing when a game was on the line . I was afraid to screw up . That 's the sure sign of a loser . From there , it was n't very far to thinking that I 'll never win , that I did n't deserve to win at anything . Including love .
ANNABELLE: You 're wrong . You 're winning now . You 're winning me . They kiss real good .
ANCHOR: Any idea how Wilkinson 's identity was discovered and who leaked it to the media ?
REPORTER: No , Bob , but rumor has it that the National Football League Player 's Association had something to do with it .
ANCHOR: Thanks , Hank .
TO CAMERA: In other N.F.L . news , almost sixty percent of the regular players have now crossed the picket lines and more are crossing every day . The strike , now in its second week , is expected to go out with a fizzle . Most experts think that the Monday night Dallas/Washington game will be the last with replacement players . But even that game will feature at least 75 percent of the egular Cowboys . Coach James McGinty will try to make it a perfect three and O with a team made up totally of eplacement players . Well and one felon . That we know of .
O'NEIL: Where are we gon na keep him ?
AUGUSTINE: You used to love asparagus soup . They say that when the taste uds go , you 're at the eginning of the end . Augustine leaves with the tray . McGINTY I want to keep Falco after the strike ends . As Martel 's back-up .
O'NEIL: Let 's keep 'em all . The hell with the egulars . McGINTY You 've got to take the union players back once the strike ends . It 's part of the collective argaining agreement .
O'NEIL: Okay , Jimmy , okay . But you beat Dallas for me , and then I 'll go gently into that night .
LEE: You 'll score , too , with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac . It 's a big car for a big man .
LEE: You 'll score , too , with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac . It 's a big car , for a big man .
SHANE: What 's this ?
MARTEL: This is a visit .
SHANE: A visit . Who let you in ?
MARTEL: I used to nail one of the housekeepers .
SHANE: Lucky girl .
MARTEL: You know who these guys are , do n't you ?
SHANE: Dallas Cowboys . Howdy .
MARTEL: You 'll be seeing a lot of these guys tomorrow .
SHANE: What do you want ?
MARTEL: Who , me ? Not much . But these boys wanted a little head start on you . There 's a beat and then Shane suddenly bolts for the door . But the two linemen grab and hold him .
SHANE: I 'm flattered that you actually think we have a chance to win .
MARTEL: It can be a game of luck . And under no circumstances can we allow a scab team to go three and O . Especially against the Dallas Cowboys . It 's just not good for the
SHANE: Is the union behind this 'visit ' ?
MARTEL: I ca n't really say , Shane . By the way , have you ever tried throwing a football with bruised ribs ?
SHANE: I wo n't go out with he
MARTEL: Good . Gentlemen ? Hey , have a great game ! They move toward the door .
LINDELL: I think that Miste Matheson here , and myself , are very close to an agreement that will put the 'pro ' back in pro-football .
REPORTER: Mister Matheson , what are the sticking points in the negotiations as far as the owners are concerned ?
MATHESON: Only one that the players immediately go ack to work with no change in the existing contract . Lindell looks uncomfortable . But he smiles anyway .
AL: Good evening from the Big O here in Washington D.C. where the mighty Dallas Cowboys take on the Cinderella Washington 'Scabskins ' as they have come to be known . Hi , I 'm Al Michaels and we are witnesses to a unique matchup tonight as Shane Falco and a contingent of strike players go up against the entire regula squad of the Dallas Cowboys . Yes , you heard right every Cowboy has now crossed the picket line , some as late as this afternoon , and they will all play tonight . Can a rag tag group of hasbeens and castoffs stand up to what was once called America 's team ? And what about the strike itself ? It has been so ineffective that many predict it will be over before this game ends . Stay tuned as Boomer and Dan join me for strike all , D.C. style .
SHANE: Whatever you say , Coach . McGinty walks into the middle of the locke oom and goes into pre-game speech mode . McGINTY Alright , listen up . The strike is just about history . By tomorrow , you will no longer be Redskins . It 's important that you leave here , however , with the knowledge that you have made a difference in your own life , in the owner 's life or what 's left of it and especially the fans ' . You have proven to a skeptical America that sports is not about contracts , o agents or shoe deals . Sports is about rising
AL: That is one very big leg on Lou Pacifico . He 's a big reason why this strike team is two and 0 .
DAN: But the fact is , a kicker does not an offense make . I think tonight the Scabskins will have a very rude awakening .
BOOMER: But you have to admit , Dan , Falco is proving to be the real thing .
DAN: Well , Boomer , no , I do n't have to admit anything .
BOOMER: Here we go Everybody laughs politely .
ANNABELLE: Shane ! He turns and sees a smiling Annabelle . Shane gives her a guilty wave and then cringes with the pain of just having to lift his arm .
BUTLER: No problem .
BUTLER: I 'm gon na autograph your body with bruises , you scab-ass son of a itch !
SHANE: Like Christmas morning . Butler leans on Shane 's side as he gets up . Shane gasps with pain . ON McGINTY He 's watching Shane closely . Then he talks into his mike . McGINTY What 's the matter with your arm ? Are you alright ?
DAN: What pursuit ! Butle never gave up on him . That 's a 270-pound guy who moves like a halfback .
BOOMER: Dan , I think Butler 's hit on Falco was late , to tell you the truth .
DAN: Well , of course you do . You were a wimp quarterback .
AL: Easy , guys . Some laughter .
SHANE: Okay . Red right 15 X hook .
LAMONT: Shane ! Lamont sees an open lane and Shane follows him . He eats up 15 yards before two defensive halfbacks close in . Lamont throws an incredible block and takes out both guys . Shane blows by and heads for the end zone . Only a safety stands between Shane and pay dirt .
AL: That 's the end of the
DAN: Al , the battle is being fought and won in the trenches . You ca n't expect a bunch of pick- up players to stand up to a professional pass ush like the Cowboys .
BOOMER: There 's still a whole half left , Dan . And emember , Falco is proving to be a second- half quarterback .
DAN: You got to be kidding .
BOOMER: Those big , fat boys in the trenches get awful tired . You ought to know that , Dan . No laughter .
AL: Okay , let 's join Chris Berman with our half- time show . Chris ? After a beat we hear
BOOMER: He started it .
DAN: I did not ! You called me fat !
BOOMER: I did not ! But you are ! Dan reaches across Al and grabs Boomer by the throat .
AL: Stop it ! The three of them start wrestling in the ooth .
SHANE: I 'm sorry , Roland . That was a great block .
ROLAND: For my last play in football , I 'll take that block . Shane looks terribly guilty .
SHANE: You were a warrior , Roland . I 'm gon na miss you .
ROLAND: It was a dream come true . Go kick some ass for me .
SID: Hey , Shane , I just heard . Congratulations ! He smacks Shane on his bad side and Shane grimaces .
WILKINSON: Congratulations on what ?
SID: Shane is staying on . He 's gon na be Martel 's ackup . Everyone stares at Shane for a beat .
ANDRE: Is that true ?
SHANE: Yes , Andre . It 's true . Nobody says anything for a beat .
FRANKLIN: I got to tell you , Shane , you played the first half like you were staying . Like you already had a contract . Shane looks around the room at this beaten unch . No one makes eye contact with him .
SHANE: You 're right , Clifford . And I 'm sorry . But now I want to go out there and either beat these astards or die trying . I never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life .
EARL: I do n't know what yawl are doin ' tomorrow , but my ass is goin ' back to jail . But if I got ta go , I want to go back a winner .
EVANS: Hell , I 'm retiring . I have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career . I 'm homicidal !
BATEMAN: Me , too , Reese !
EARL: Let 's get it on ! Everybody turns to Shane .
SHANE: Gentlemen , our problem is the Cowboys are n't afraid of us . But they should be !
LAMONT: Damn straight ! Everybody whoops !
SHANE: We 've got one chance on offense to make ou stand the first play of the half .
JAMAL: One touchdown ai n't gon na help , Shane .
SHANE: No . But one nasty-ass play might . We just got ta be brave . And trust each other .
DAN: It 's about time . I say let the professionals ack on the field . The fans deserve nothing less .
BOOMER: Yeah , you would say that .
ANNABELLE: Are you okay ? Is it your side ?
SHANE: I 'm okay . I owe you an apology .
ANNABELLE: What ? You do ?
SHANE: Yes . I 'll explain later . But thank you for believing in me . You give me strength just looking at you . And with that , Shane takes her in his arms and kisses her deeply . The crowd on that side of the field reacts to the kiss with a `` Wooooooo ! ''
BUTLER: That was n't too smart .
SHANE: Suck my dick . Butler is too shocked for a comeback .
LINEBACKER: Are you ready for more
SHANE: Blue thirteen ! Blue thirteen ! Hut ! Hut ! Hut !
DEFENDER: He 's got a knife ! But there is so much confusion that nobody pays any attention . Jamal slips the knife away .
BUTLER: He scratched my eyes out !
LINEBACKER: He hit me on purpose ! ON McGINTY He 's smiling to himself on the sidelines .
REF: Unsportsmanlike conduct , number 72 , number 81 and number 87 on the offense , fifteen yards times three that 's forty-five yards . Illegal use of hands , number 48 on the offense , fifteen yards . That makes it sixty yards . Unnecessary oughness number 65 and number 32 , fifteen yards that 's , wait forty-five no , thirty how many yards so far ?
SHANE: Okay , everybody , stick
BUTLER: I ca n't believe you went for my eyes !
COCHRAN: Shut up ! I 'm gon na do it again 'cause it was fun !
SHANE: Black 98 ! Black 98 ! Hut !
SHANE: Hut ! Hut ! He gets the snap and starts looking downfield for receivers .
SHANE: Put your tits on my head A trainer hears that and looks worried . Shane 's teammates run up and carry him off the field .
SHANE: I can do it .
EVANS: Are you okay ?
SHANE: Just make it a good snap . And you 'll do the rest , ight ? Pacifico does n't answer .
SHANE: Lou , are you alright ? Pacifico looks up from where he is set up fo the kick . There are tears in his eyes .
PACIFICO: I 'm sorry . They know where my family lives . Shane tries to digest what he just heard .
SHANE: What ? !
EVANS: Come on , Shane ! Shane looks back at Pacifico and makes a decision .
SHANE: Hut !
REF: Clipping . Number 77 offense .
PACIFICO: I broke my arm . Thank you . You saved my ass . Shane nods . In his earpiece , he hears McGinty . McGINTY Someday , you can explain what that was all about . We got no
SHANE: What would Unitas do in this situation ? I have no idea . Shane leans into the huddle .
LEE: I 'm so sorry , Shane . I 'm sorry , everybody .
SHANE: No problem , Mickey . Hell of a hit , Reese .
EVANS: That 's the one I was looking for . I can etire in peace now .
SHANE: Right after this play . So besides me , who eally wants the ball ? He looks around the huddle . He studies each face . And then he comes to rest on Brian Murray . Brian 's eyes are shining . He does n't need words here .
SHANE: Blue 58 ! Blue 58 ! Hut ! Hut ! Hut !
COUNTY SHERIFF: Let me see your drivers license .
RADIO: Post ten-eighteen . Post ten-eighteen .
COUNTY SHERIFF: From out of town , hmm ? What 's you got in the trunk ?
KEVIN: Do Do Do De Do De Do De Do De Do Feeling Do De Da Do De Do De Do Feeling seven-up . I 'm feeling seven-up . Feeling seven up . I 'm feeling seven up . It 's a crisp efreshing feeling crystal clear and light . America 's drinking seven-up and it sure feels right . Feeling lucky seven .
OTTO: Kevin stop singing man .
KEVIN: Feeling seven eleven .
OTTO: I 'm standing right next to you and you 're fucking singing . Cut it out .
KEVIN: Jeeze . Why so tense guy ?
MR. HUMPHRIES: Otto ?
KEVIN: Mister Humphries !
MR. HUMPHRIES: You were late again this morning . Now normally I 'd let it go but it 's been ought to my attention that you 're not paying attention to the way you space the cans . Many young men of you age in these uncertain times-
LOUIE: Hey ! He 's talking to you ! Kevin chuckles
KEVIN: You got ta love getting fired from you job in a big way , Otto .
MR. HUMPHRIES: What are you laughing at ? Louie , throw him out too .
LOUIE: Come on you worm . Get out of here .
OTTO: How you doing dude ? When did you get out of the slammer man ?
DEBBI: What 's the difference ? ]
OTTO: Huh ?
DEBBI: Otto . Otto .
OTTO: What ?
DEBBI: Get me another beer .
KEVIN: Ow . Cool . Ow . Dammit . I 'm supposed to e the host here .
OTTO: Debbi honey . I got you a beer .
[OTTO: Shit .
DEBBI: Just ignore him Duke he 's nothing but a big baby .
DUKE: Turn the fucking light out . ]
KEVIN: What are you doing ? Nobody supposed to be up here . This is my parent 's room .
OTTO: Do n't want to talk about anything else .
BUD: Hey kid ! Hey ! Hey kid ! Hey ! Hey ! Are you hard of hearing ?
OTTO: What do you want ?
BUD: You want to make ten bucks ?
OTTO: Fuck you , queer .
BUD: Now waita minute wait a minute kid you got the wrong idea . Look my old lady is real sick and I got to get her to the hospital , okay ?
OTTO: So what ? Take her there .
BUD: I ca n't . I ca n't leave her car in this ad area . Look I need some helpful soul to drive it for me , okay ? She 's pregnant . She 's with twins . She could drop at any time . All right ?
OTTO: Well , uh , how much are you going to give me ?
BUD: Fifteen bucks .
OTTO: No . Wo n't do it for less than twenty .
BUD: Twenty-five . Follow me in my old lady 's car . It  s right here . okay ?
OTTO: All right Where 's , uh , where 's you old lady at ?
BUD: Never mind about that . Right now we need to get both of my cars out of this ad area , allright ? Come on .
MARLENE: Helping hand acceptance corporation , Marlene speaking .
REPO VICTIM: You know damn straight what I 'm talking about . It 's sitting right out side . It took me two weeks to get this money up so I can come and get it .
MARLENE: I do n't think so sir you 'll have to call back . I 'll call you back O.K . ?
OLY: That ai n't your car .
MARLENE: Thanks Bud .
REPO VICTIM: Are you going to give me my car or do I got to go to your house and shove your dog 's head down the toilet .
MARLENE: Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking .
PLETTSCHNER: Take it easy sonny boy .
OLY: Best goddamn car on the lot .
REPO VICTIM: You damn right it is .
MARLENE: Will you , Will you hold please ?
REPO VICTIM: Say moma what 's happening ? You want to take a lift ?
MARLENE: No thank you . L.A.P.D . I wanted to report a repo in Boro heights area .
PLETTSCHNER: A Cadillac . Is he a pimp ?
BUD: Shut up Plettschner .
MARLENE: Bud what street was that car on ?
BUD: Honey I do n't know , some alley uh . Hey kid !
OTTO: What ?
BUD: Hey what street was the Cutlass on ?
OTTO: I do n't know . What happened to you old lady ?
MARLENE: They do n't know I 'll call you back .
BUD: My old lady ? Oh shit ! I forgot all about her . Well she 'll take the us . She 's a rock .
MARLENE: What kind of car ? What kind of car ?
BUD: Hey come on in . Marlene ! Marlene !
MARLENE: Can you hold ?
OLY: Got a name kid ?
OTTO: Yeah ! It 's Otto .
OLY: Otto ! Otto parts ? HAHAHA The phone rings and Oly answers
MARLENE: You got a drivers license honey ?
OTTO: That 's what it says does n't it .
OLY: Hey you want some help with that bee kid ?
OTTO: You 're all repo men .
OLY: What if we are ? Otto pours the beer on the floor .
BUD: You know kid , uhh , usually when someone pulls shit like that my first eaction is uhh I want to punch his fucking lights out .
LITE: Got any messages for me baby ?
MARLENE: Yeah . Here you go .
OLY: Cracks me up .
LITE: Somebody pissed on the floo again ?
OLY: Maybe he 's looking for a job ? Huh budsky ?
BUD: Could be ? What do you say kid were always on the look out for a few good men .
OTTO: Screw that ! Ai n't going to be no repo man . No way !
MILLER: You find one in every car . You 'll see .
RADIO: Come in Officer Labeef do you read me ?
SHERIFF: I 've never seen the like of that .
RADIO: I have the stats on that car Office Labeef .
SHERIFF: What could have done that to him ? Gasoline ? Napalm ?
AGENT ROGERSZ: It happens sometimes . People just explode . Natural causes .
SHERIFF: What ? Suspect presence on west coast confirmed 44 % possibility Los Angeles Locate immediately Do not notify police
AGENT ROGERSZ: Suspect presence on west coast confirmed . Do not notify police .
OTTO: Night watchman in Pomona .
KEVIN: Yep .
OTTO: Asbestos worker . City of industry .
KEVIN: Yep Yep !
OTTO: French fry maker Agoura . Ha Ha that 's absurd .
KEVIN: Yeah ? Well you think it 's funny huh ? There 's fucking room to move as a fry cook , man . You know I could e manager in two years ? King ! God !
OTTO: You know Kevin , I had this wild fucking dream the other night .
KEVIN: I bet .
OTTO: It was with you and me and we were working in this sleazy shithole motel down in Miami , Florida . And we were ellhops and we were sixty-five years old . It was so real it was really real , ealistic .
KEVIN: And then what , you woke up in a puddle ?
OTTO: Fuck you !
KEVIN: Fucking jerk . Otto stands up and starts to walk away .
OTTO: Away from you .
NOTE: Edge City , also the name of the film 's production company , is a recurring theme in Tom Wolfe 's `` Electric Kool-Ade Acid Test '' .
OTTO: Mother , father . Got anything to eat ?
REVEREND LARRY: Occasionally we get a letter from a viewer that says now the only reason Reverend Larry comes on your television set is because he wants your money . And do you know what ? They 're right ! I do want your money . Because god wants your money . So I want you to go out and mortgage that home and sell that car and send me your money . You do n't need that car .
OTTO MOM: Put it on a plate son you 'll enjoy it more .
OTTO: I could n't enjoy it any more mom MMM MMM MMM This is swell .
OTTO DAD: What is it son ?
OTTO: Do you remember that you once told me along time ago . Well not too long ago ut ummm . That you told me that you 'd give me a thousand dollars to go to Europe if I finish school . Well you know something ? You were right . About finishing school that 's ah that 's what I 'd like to do . But umm I want to know if I could have the money first . Like now . [ You know I really love you Dad I 've always loved you . You too mom . What do you say ?
OTTO DAD: I do n't have it anymore .
OTTO: What ? ]
OTTO MOM: You father gave all our extra money to the Reverend 's telethon , Otto .
OTTO: Well what about me ?
OTTO DAD: You 're on the honor roll of the chariots of fire . Same as us , Otto . It was a gift . From all of us jointly .
OTTO MOM: We 're sending bibles to El Salvador .
OTTO: So how much do I get paid , twenty-five uck a car .
BUD: Paid ? You do n't get paid . Are you kidding , you work on commission , that 's bette than getting paid .
OTTO: Are you ?
BUD: Am I what ?
OTTO: Packin ' something .
BUD: Ha . Only an asshole gets killed for a car . Guys who make it are the guys who get into their cars at anytime . Get in at three A.M. get up at four . That 's why there ai n't a repo man I know that do n't take speed .
OTTO: Speed huh ? Bud at payphone Bud is talking on phone .
BUD: I 'll call you back ! Flippin general telephone .
OTTO: Me too .
BUD: What do you know ? See an ordinary person spend his life avoiding tense situations . Repoman spends his life getting into tense situations . ! Lets go get a drink .
DUKE: Was n't that Otto ?
DEBBI: Otto who ?
DUKE: You got ta watch yourself . Have a nice day . . . night .
BUD: This is what I call phase 2 ace . If the dealer do n't have the keys , you call the truck . And it is a heartbreak to be sitting waiting for the truck and the giblet comes out and drives it away . Once you 've got this baby on the hooks , she 's all ours .
PAKMAN: Oh no you do n't . I 'm nipping this in the bud right now . You are not going to take this car . I know my rights . There is absolutely no way you 're going to take it .
BUD: Uh , are you miss Luann Pakman ?
PAKMAN: Obviously not . I 'm Arthur Pakman . Luann is my daughter . Now you 're going to have to take this matter up with her .
BUD: Well do n't think I have n't tried , sir , ut she has n't had the decency to call us in months . I mean , I 've skipped trace this car all over town .
PAKMAN: Well , uh , Luann is sick . Now the damn car is n't working anyway , and I know , I know that 's why she has n't paid you .
BUD: Well , she could have called us ? Look , all you 've go to do is call my branch manager , I will abide with whateve he says .
PAKMAN: That 's the law ?
BUD: That 's the law . Pakman begins walking toward house .
PAKMAN: I 'll be right back .
BUD: There 's going to be some bad shit coming down one of these days kid .
OTTO: Oh yeah ? Where you going to be ? On the moon ?
BUD: Ung Uh , I 'm going to be right here heading north at a hundred and ten per .
OTTO: In this junker ?
BUD: Uh Oh ! The Rodriguez brothers . [ Lagarto flips them off
OTTO: Motherfucker just flipped you off .
BUD: Roll the window down . ] Roll the window down .
LAGARTO: A donde vas , pendejo ?
BUD: A chingas tu esposa !
A BROTHER: Hey Bud , hey Bud , who 's your new girlfriend ?
OTTO: Watch it mother fucker .
LAGARTO: Hey fuck you pussy punk .
[OTTO: Holy shit . ]
NAPOLEON: Want me to take them ?
OTTO: Wo ! Hey !
BUD: God damn dipshit Rodriguez gypsy dildo punks . I 'll get your ass !
OTTO: HAHAHA WOW ! That was intense .
BUD: Repo man 's always intense . Come on let 's go get a drink .
OTTO: Gee bud . You never told me it was going to be like this man . Cops and robbers . Hahahahah . Real live car chases . Hahahahah .
ARCHIE: Shit ! Debbi !
DUKE: If you say our names we 'll have to kill all these people Archie .
ARCHIE: They all ran away .
DEBBI: Come on you douche bags .
BUD: Awful quiet in here . It 's too quiet .
OTTO: So who are these Rodriguez boys .
BUD: Rodriguez brothers . Lagarto and Napoleon . Two notorious delinquents currently esponsible for at least thirty vehicles in the field .
OTTO: Scumbags
LITE: They ai n't scumbags . They car thieves just like use .
OTTO: Good gag , you pull this one a lot ?
LITE: Only on the women . It never fails .
OTTO: Excuse me ? Miss Magruder ? I have something here for you .
MS. MAGRUDER: Uhm how utterly charming .
OTTO: Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Motherfucker ! Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Christ ! I 'm blind man . Lite ? Lite , where are you man ?
BUD: Ruthside Peason brokerage consultant . Fucking millionaire six payments ehind . I 've never understood it .
OTTO: What 's that ?
BUD: The fucking millionaires . They never pay their bills . See you at the yard .
OTTO: Let me get this one .
BUD: No . I 'll handle this one . Mister Peason is carrying a permit for a pistol .
OTTO: Do n't underestimate me ace .
RUTHSIDE PEASON: And also , naturally , I 'd like them to e right next to each other . In addition I 'd like them to be as close to the window as possible so I can sit in my car and watch my things . So all you have to do is take your clothes out of here like this and put them into a machine over there like that .
OTTO: Hey ! Hey ! You want a ride ? Hey babe need a ride ?
OLD LADY: Pick it up ! Look at you . You pick it up . You know yourself you were wrong .
OTTO: Well what were they doing out in the middle of the street ?
OLD LADY: They were n't in the middle of the street . That not the middle of the street that 's the corner .
OTTO: What ?
OLD LADY: You pick it up .
OTTO: Haha , no way . You still want a ride or what ?
OLD LADY: No I do n't . Leila and Otto drive off in the ca
OTTO: My name is Otto .
LEILA: Leila . Is this your car ?
OTTO: Yeah it 's one of them .
LEILA: Heh , one of them ? You think you 're pretty slick do n't ya ? I bet you 're a used car salesman .
OTTO: I am not .
LEILA: You dress like one .
OTTO: I 'm a repo man .
LEILA: What 's that ?
OTTO: It  s a repossesser . I take back cars from dildos who do n't pay their bills . Cool huh ?
LEILA: No .
OTTO: What are you doing ?
LEILA: Those men in the car next to us do n't look at them . Do n't look at them ! If they see me they 'll kill me .
OTTO: Really why ?
LEILA: Take a look at this .
OTTO: What 's this ? It looks like sausage .
LEILA: It is n't sausage Otto . That 's a picture of four dead aliens .
OTTO: HAHAHAH
LEILA: Laugh away fuckface that picture is going to be on the cover of eve major newspaper in two days time .
OTTO: How do you know that ?
LEILA: Part of a secret network . A scientist who is also in our secret sect smuggled the corpses off of this air force base . Now he 's got them in the truck of his car . It 's a Chevy Malibu . We 've got to find him .
OTTO: What are you going to do with them , put them on Johnny Carson ?
LEILA: Yes ! We 're going to have a press conference and tell the world .
RADIO: Ehw . What 's that ? I do n't know dear . But it is alive . It seems friendly though . Aw look it 's curled up . How cute oh no . Maybe we can take it home it does n't seem to have any . Oh yes let 's . But no ! No matter how appealing do not let strange creature in you house . We all know strange creatures are on the increase . Many of them do seem furry and adorable , ut beware we do n't know from whence they came . Be safe . Be safe . Report strange incidences today .
OTTO: United fruitcake outlet .
LEILA: My door does n't open . Otto lets Leila out
OTTO: Sure Ummm I do n't know . what do you think ? Ah want to go out with me again sometime ?
LEILA: I do n't know . I 'm going to be kind of usy with work , the Malibu and everything .
OTTO: Hey great . Terrific . Here 's your shit .
LEILA: What 's your problem ? I mean girls might like you if you lightened up a little it .
OTTO: Fuck . Girls pay to go out with me . All right ?
LEILA: You wan na get back in the car ?
OTTO: What , here ?
LEILA: Yeah .
OLY: Twenty thousand dollars for a Chevy Malibu ?
MARLENE: Store front operation , but the money is in escrow .
OLY: Uh , naw . They 're always bitching about their case load . I think I 'll go out for a while .
MARLENE: Why ? We out of beer ?
OLY: Somebody has to work around here . Keep making me money kid .
OTTO: Fuck you . Otto and Lite out in the field
LITE: Man we 've been looking for this little ed devil for a long time . Just act natural . Nobody knows if it  s your ca or somebody elses car .
OTTO: Got it . They slimjim the car and get in
LITE: Lets get out of here . Put your seat elt on .
OTTO: Sure .
LITE: In that case you 're going love this .
OTTO: What book ?
LITE: Dioretix . Science of matter over mind .
OTTO: Unh uhg
LITE: You 'd better read it and quick . That ook will change your life . Found it in a Maseratti in Beverly hills .
MILLER: A lot of people do n't realize what 's eally going on . They view life as a unch of unconnected incidences and things . They do n't realize that there 's this like lattice of coincidence that lays on top of everything . I 'll Give you an example , show you what I mean . Suppose you thinking about a plate of shrimp . Suddenly somebody will say like plate or shrimp or plate of shrimp out of the blue no explanation . No point in looking for one either . It 's all part of a cosmic unconsciousness .
OTTO: You eat a lot of acid Miller , back in the hippie days ?
MILLER: I 'll give you another instance . You know the way everybody 's into weirdness ight now . Books in all the supermarkets about Bermuda triangles , UFO 's , how the Mayans invented television . That kind of thing .
OTTO: I do n't read them books .
MILLER: Well the way I see it it 's exactly the same . There ai n't no difference between a flying saucer and a time machine . People get so hung up on specifics . They miss out on seeing the whole thing . Take South America for example . In South America thousands of people go missing every year . Nobody knows where they go . They just like disappear . But if you think about it for a minute , you ealize something . There had to be a time when there was no people . Right ?
OTTO: Yeah . I guess .
MILLER: Well where did all these people come from ? hmmm ? I 'll tell you where . The future . Where did all these people disappea to ? hmmm ?
OTTO: The past ?
MILLER: That 's right and how did they get there ?
OTTO: How the fuck do I know ?
MILLER: Flying saucers . Which are really ? Yeah you got it . Time machines . I think a lot about this kind of stuff . I do my est thinking on the bus . That how come I do n't drive , see ?
OTTO: You do n't even know how to drive .
MILLER: I do n't want to know how . I do n't want to learn . See ? The more you drive , the less intelligent you are .
BUD: You know I think I saw one of those things once . One of those UFOs . I mean it was really it was kind of kind of scary . I saw all these colored lights and , uh , sounds . I mean sounds and lights like I never heard before . I mean it was really weird .
OTTO: Bud .
BUD: Yeah ?
OTTO: Do you think all repo men follow the code ?
BUD: Of course . Well I mean you see a lot of fucked up cars come in but99 time out of 100 it was the custome who fucked them up . Assholes .
NAPOLEON: Who the hell is this ? Napoleon ? Who the fuck are you calling ?
BUD: It 's a grand if you show me where his car is Napoleon .
[NAPOLEON: Ahh . Go fuck yourself asshole . ]
BUD: Hello ? Prick .
NAPOLEON: Sixty-four Chevy Malibu . Twenty grand .
BUD: Waiting !
NAPOLEON: We could buy ten of them for that , Marlene .
MARLENE: Think you can find it now ?
NAPOLEON: Now how come this junk is worth so much ? What 's in it ? Drugs ?
LAGARTO: Los Hermanos Rodriguez do n't approve of drugs .
MARLENE: Neither do I , but it 's my birthday .
[MARLENE: That motherfucker 's still down there . ]
BUD: Do n't care how long it takes , dildos . Repo man 's got all night every night .
OTTO: Hey Leila ! All right , um , this is Otto . The guy who gave you a ride and stuff . I heard something about that car .
LEILA: Otto . Otto stop . You said you had something to tell me .
OTTO: Huh ?
LEILA: What did you want to tell me ?
OTTO: Oh ! Take off your clothes .
LEILA: I 'm at work , Otto !
OTTO: Oh yeah ? Me too .
LEILA: Your work is different than mine .
OTTO: Says who ?
LEILA: What are you doing. ? Do n't do that .
[OTTO: Well the least you could do is give me a blow job .
OTTO: Heh , I guess that means no . ]
DEADRA: Leila ? We have a cell meeting in two minutes time .
LEILA: Thanks Deadra . I 'll be right there .
BUD: See that motherfucker only thinks I do n't know what 's going on , Lite . As soon as I find that Chevy I 'm going indy . I 'm going to buy myself a tow truck , a couple of pitbulls , and un a yard . Sit around and watch everybody else do the work for a while .
LITE: No way you can do that on twenty grand man .
BUD: The hell I can as long as you have good credit and my credit is spotless .
LITE: If I find the Malibu , you wo n't see me for dust , I 'm going to move to Mendecino County , raise me a bumper crop of tomato plants .
BUD: Credit is a sacred trust . It 's what our free society is founded on . You think they give a damn about their bills in Russia ? I said do you think they give a damn about their bills in Russia ?
OTTO: They do n't pay bills in Russia . It 's all free .
BUD: All free ? Free my ass , what are you a fucking commie ? Huh ?
OTTO: No I ai n't no commie .
BUD: Well you 'd better not be I do n't want any commies in my car . No Christians either .
KEVIN: I 'll deal with you later . I 've got a customer to attend to . You too .
NAPOLEON: Hey buddy ! How you doing ? Huh ? Hey do n't you remember me ? I was here yesterday . Heh . Listen I think I left a book of matches over in your office over there . You want to go and check for me huh ?
KEVIN: Sure thing .
NAPOLEON: Hey thanks a lot buddy .
KEVIN: Any thing for you babes .
NAPOLEON: All right , you 're beautiful . I love you .
KEVIN: I 'll be right back .
OTTO: It 's really very simple Mrs . Parks . You do n't want me to take your car and I do n't want to take your car . Now I said to the boss I said ah Look ! I do not want to repossess this lady  s car .
MRS. PARKS: Well I 've been in the hospital you see .
OTTO: Yeah , Yes I understand . My job is really on the line over this one . I could lose it right away .
MRS. PARKS: I 'll see if I can borrow some money from somewhere .
OTTO: That 's terrific . Really terrific .
MRS. PARKS: Oh how was the rehearsal son ?
OTTO: Well , uh , got ta get going here .
MRS. PARKS: Did you like the tea ?
OTTO: The tea ?
MRS. PARKS: Uh huh ?
OTTO: Yeah , it was terrific .
MRS. PARKS: You 're welcome .
OTTO: Uh excuse me .
MRS. PARKS: I gave you the money last week to pay it and you did n't do it . What did you do with it ? I 'm so tired of giving you money and you squandering it . I know what you done you all went out dancing some where . That 's what you did . Next time I give you some money I want you to put it in the car ya hear . You 're working . How come you did n't do it huh ? I do n't know what 's happened to you .
OTTO: Hey it 's cool . It 's cool . I like music too man , hey
PLETTSCHNER: Some people are n't cut out to be repo men . Why do n't you smarten up kid ?
OTTO: Fuck you Plettschner ! OWW ! OWW !
PLETTSCHNER: Do n't you say fuck you to me . Do n't you know who I am ?
OTTO: Yeah you 're Plettschner .
OTTO: So what ?
PLETTSCHNER: So what ? So never say fuck you to me . Because you have n't earn the ights yet .
LITE: Hey kid I need a contract driver .
PLETTSCHNER: See what I mean punk ?
OTTO: Fuck you !
PLETTSCHNER: Fuck you ! You little scumbag .
LITE: Shut up , Phlettschner .
PLETTSCHNER: Do n't you ever tell me to shut up .
NAPOLEON: Shit ! ! It 's too hot in here man . What the hell 's going on ? So fucking hot I think that shit in the trunk is going to melt . I think we bette take a look , all right ?
LAGARTO: Go get us two sodas .
NAPOLEON: All right , as soon as I check the trunk .
LAGARTO: We 're just the mules , comprende ?
MARLENE: Helping hand .
LAGARTO: Marlene ! We 've found the car .
DUKE: Come on you guys !
DEBBI: Stop pushing Duke .
[ARCHIE: My medication . Aw man !
DUKE: Aw be cool dude we got more .
ARCHIE: Come on . Come on . da-dee-dee-dee-dah-dah dee-dee
LAGARTO: Yeah well that 's not the only thing Marlene . This car is hot .
MARLENE: What do you mean ? Stolen ?
LAGARTO: No . No I mean it 's hot really hot .
MARLENE: Hot ?
LAGARTO: Yeah , we 're sweating like pigs man .
MARLENE: I got the papers . Where is the car from ?
LAGARTO: It 's from someplace . Ah Roswell , New Mexico
LITE: Me fight in a war man ? Fuck no way ! Nobody 's got to do that shit . Not in this country . A new I.D . do n't cost no more than a pink slip . You know what I mean ?
OTTO: You know Marlene ? Man she 's pretty hot .
LITE: Otto my man . I jumped on that action from day one . I found out where she was coming from .
OTTO: See ya back at the yard .
LITE: Have fun .
OTTO: Oh shit . Holy shit . Lite ! . Lite ! Lite ! Lite ! Lite ! Open the door . There 's a maniac in there . What are you doing ? Open the door man ! What are you doing ? What are you doing ? Open the door . Lite !
LITE: You 're still on the job white boy . Get in the car .
OTTO: Open the door man , open the door . Open the door Lite .
LITE: Get in the car .
OTTO: Jesus Christ . Lite and Otto in a field
LITE: So what if I did ?
OTTO: Well I do n't know I mean that 's pretty severe .
LITE: Hey ! Blanks get the job done too .
OTTO: You repo men , you guys are all out to fuckin lunch . Let 's get out of here .
LEILA: Hello . Is it you ? This is Leila . Are you using a scrambler ?
AGENT: Happy face ! You want a ride ? In Agent Rogersz van
LEILA: What do you want from me ?
AGENT: We ask the questions .
LEILA: You 're not going to torture me are you ?
AGENT: Huh ? Why are you looking for the Malibu ?
LEILA: Because of the trunk . The aliens inside .
AGENT: Illegal aliens ?
LEILA: No , Silly , Extraterrestrials .
AGENT: Ahhh , heh . Did you ever think about joining the CIA ?
LEILA: Um . I going to have to ask my boyfriend .
AGENT: Boyfriend ? ?
SUBJECT: Otto Maddox
GENDER: male
RACE: Caucasian
AGE: 21
CORRECTION: 18
EVERYBODY: Jingle bells . Jingle bells . Jingle all the way . Oh what fun
OTTO: What 's going on ?
MARLENE: Oh . The usual .
PLETTSCHNER: Marlene ! How you doing baby ?
OLY: Jesus who done that to yeah son ?
OTTO: Who done what ?
PLETTSCHNER: Who done what he says . You want to talk about guts . What did you do to you face kid ?
OTTO: Oh some dude it does n't matter .
LITE: Oh yes it does .
MARLENE: Why do n't you do something Plettschner ? Are n't you a cop or something ?
PLETTSCHNER: Hey Marlene . I 'm on my coffee break .
BUD: Repo man do n't go running to the man Marlene . A repo man goes at it alone .
LITE: Yes sirree bob .
MARLENE: Just like John Wayne .
OLY: Damn right just like John Wayne what 's wrong about that ?
PLETTSCHNER: Greatest American that ever lived .
MILLER: John Wayne was a fag .
BUD: What did you say man ?
PLETTSCHNER: Whaa ?
OLY: What ?
[MILLER: John Wayne was a fag . ]
EVERYONE: The hell he was .
MILLER: He was too you boys . I installed two way mirrors in his pad in Brentwood . And he 'd come to the door in a dress .
PLETTSCHNER: Ah , you 're fucking nuts .
OLY: That does n't mean he was a homo , Miller . Lotta straight guys like to watch their buddies fuck . I know I do .
BUD: They do ?
PLETTSCHNER: Yeah .
OLY: Do n't you ?
PLETTSCHNER: Damn straight I do .
LITE: Fuck John Wayne man . Tell us his name you little pussy .
OTTO: Kiss off you asshole .
BUD: Hey take it easy . Take it easy . The guys head is hurt .
OLY: This is too personal sonny . The thing is a repo man got beat up in the line of duty . Now it does n't matter that that man was you . What really matters is that the guy that did it has got to pay the price . Now stop being selfish and tell us his name .
LITE: Come on .
OTTO: Ahh Oww You bastard .
OLY: Mr. Humphries ?
MR. HUMPHRIES: Yes ? Yes I 'm Mr. Humphries . What do you want ? Ungghhh
MARLENE: Helping hand acceptance corporation . Marlene speaking .
LEILA: Hello , is Otto there ?
MARLENE: It 's for you . A girl .
OTTO: Yeah .
LEILA: Hi Otto ? It 's Leila .
OTTO: Leila who ? In a bar .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Listen to me ! For the sake of this and future generations you must tell us everything you know .
OTTO: Yeah . Sure . I need another drink .
LEILA: Otto , these aliens are n't on ice o anything . They could be starting to decay . We 've got to find them before they turn into mush .
DUKE: Well ! Well ! Well ! If it ai n't the repo man .
ARCHIE: You look like shit you wankers .
OTTO: Duke . Debbi . Archie . I 'd like you to meet Leila and her weird friend .
DUKE: How you doing , asshole ?
ARCHIE: How come you do n't hang out with you friends no more ?
[OTTO: What friends ?
DUKE: Want some toot dude ?
OTTO: I 'm busy man . I told ya I was working .
DEBBI: Look a metal hand .
ARCHIE: Cool !
DEBBI: Can we feel it ?
ARCHIE: Oh Chante . ]
DUKE: Fuck this let 's go do some crimes .
[ARCHIE: Adios butthole . ]
LEILA: Charming friends you got there Otto .
OTTO: Thanks , I made'um myself .
DEBBI: Hey what you doing with our car ?
ARCHIE: Yeah !
DUKE: Shut up Archie .
ARCHIE: You shut up .
DUKE: You 're still here ?
ARCHIE: Yeah four eyes .
DUKE: What do you mean ?
DEBBI: Kill him Duke !
ARCHIE: Come on Duke you putty butt , kill him .
DUKE: I aint afraid of nothing see .
ARCHIE: Oh shut up . Duh . He 's going to open it . HAHAHA
DUKE: Ah .
ARCHIE: Come on Duke .
DUKE: This thing is hot .
ARCHIE: AWWW , heh heh heh
DEBBIE: Well we do n't have all night .
DEBBI: Close it Duke ! No ! No !
ARCHIE: Aw . Dukie Wookie hurt his wittle hand .
DUKE: Fuck you Archie ! Just for that your not in the gang any more .
ARCHIE: I 'm taking over now .
DEBBI: Oh leave it off .
ARCHIE: King Archie the invincible .
DEBBIE: Shut up Archie .
ARCHIE: Hey Debbi ! Watch this . Archie opens the trunk and is disintegrated
DEBBIE: Come on duke let 's go do those crimes .
DUKE: Yeah . Yeah . Let 's go get Sushi and , and not pay .
NAPOLEON: Hey ! Yo ! Hey buddy !
[OLY: So the department says the ice broke and he fell in .
BUD: Look at these people man there 's one person in each car . City wants up to car pool but nobody gives a shit .
MILLER: People car pool , we 'd be out of work .
LITE: AWW bullshit !
OLY: How come that pig 's got a wooden leg ? Well said the farmer said about three months ago I was out there walking the pig .
MILLER: Look at that car . ]
LITE: Hey Budsky . There 's your Girlfriend .
BUD: Aww ! Those Rodriguez brothers Humm ? O.K. , boys , we 've got the whole team here tonight lets settle these motherfucker 's hash for good .
LITE: Let 's do it .
[NAPOLEON: Yo ! Pull over .
LAGARTO: Meda Bud . Shit ! ]
NAPOLEON: Do n't lose him man .
PLETTSCHNER: Hey ! Hey ! Take it easy . Stop this car . Hey come on . Come on .
NAPOLEON: Come on ! Come on ! What are you going to do with that bat ? What ? Huh ? What ?
LAGARTO: Hey ! Hey ! Hey !
BUD: What do you mean its going to cost me plenty ?
LAGARTO: How 's your neck Napoleon ?
NAPOLEON: Oh my neck ? Yeah ! Oh ! my neck is killing me man . I think I got whiplash .
LAGARTO: Aside from whiplash , this is n't a repo car .
[BUD: Bullshit ! I got the fucking papers on it . ]
LAGARTO: We paid it off . You see , uh this is our favorite car .
NAPOLEON: Yeah that 's right . You got insurance
BUD: Come on . Whose side are you on ? Let me go .
OLY: Yeah Yeah that 's what I said when the marshal woke me up at 4 o'clock this morning . Unfortunately it is n't bullshit , it 's a summons .
BUD: You should have refused to accept it .
OLY: Have you read it ? The goddamn Rodriguez brothers are suing us fo malicious damage , medical expenses and harassment for a car they fucking own .
BUD: The Rodriguez brothers . But . Ha ! You elieve the fucking Rodriguez others ? They 're a couple of scumbags Oly . You know that ?
OLY: I know that bud . But we 've got to sit down and get our stories straight .
BUD: Bullshit you 're taking thei word against mine .
OLY: I was there remember ? Why do n't you go home ? Take the rest of the week off .
BUD: Take the rest of the ? I ca n't take the est of theOW yeah ! I Un Huh I get it . Take the flippin rest of the week off budsky . So you can get the flippin twenty thousand dollars for the Malibu .
OLY: Make it a fucking month .
BUD: Yeah ? Well fuck you .
OLY: On second though Budsky . Do n't bothe coming back at all .
BUD: Great ! I 'll come back and pick up my stuff later when the fucking place do n't stink so bad .
PLETTSCHNER: Ha ! Ha ! Ha !
OLY: Shut up ! Bud and Otto in Bud 's ca Otto is driving the car .
BUD: . Makes you wonder how much they owe . Most of them are on the run . Do n't even use their fucking social security numbers . If there was just some way to find out how much the motherfuckers owe and making them pay .
OTTO: Jesus Christ bud . They 're winos , they do n't have any money . You think they 'd be bums if they did ?
BUD: You want out ? Do ya ?
OTTO: No !
BUD: What 's a matter with you ? Do n't you like your job anymore ? Not too happy in your job ? I mean I feel like were not communicating any more . When we first started out I though I could teach you something share something with you for Christ 's sake . Answer me !
AGENT: I 'm picking up the dead . I 'm putting my hands around this dead body . I 'm , I 'm carrying his limp torso to the truck . And he feels like like he has only been dead a little while but
OTTO: ott , ott
OLY: By the way kid , sign this .
OTTO: What is this ?
OLY: Equity turnover . Standard practice . Protects you in case we get sued . . . Do n't read the damn thing , kid , just sign it .
LITE: Hey Oly . You 're wife 's hanging all ove Otto .
OLY: Yeah . Like flies on shit .
OTTO: Um . Have you see uh bud anywhere ?
TV: another wonderful Christian opportunity . The Reverend Larry
BUD: Hey there hero . Get the money yet ?
OTTO: Not yet . Oly 's going to get it for me though . I just signed the papers .
BUD: Whu , what do you mean , what papers ?
OTTO: Beats me , just some , uh , contract o something .
BUD: Did n't you read it ?
OTTO: Well , no , just , uh , standard practice , uh , contract
BUD: Melonfarmer Oly ! oooh , shoot .
OTTO: What , is that not a happening deal ?
BUD: Hey ace . Wait up .
OTTO: So you want to talk about it ?
BUD: Talk about what kid ?
OTTO: Why you 're so damn mad at me ?
BUD: I 'm not mad at you . damn . I 'm not . I 'm not mad at you .
OTTO: All right O.K .
[DUKE: Debbie ?
DEBBIE: What ?
DUKE: I 've been thinking . Now that we 've got some money and Archie 's gone , do n't you think it 's time we we settle down ? Get a little house . I want you to have my baby .
DEBBIE: Why ?
DUKE: Well I do n't know . Every body does it . And it just seems like the thing to do and
DEBBI: Asshole . ]
DUKE: Let 's go do the job .
OTTO: Duke ! Debbie ! What what are you guys doing here ?
DUKE: What 's it look like ace ?
DEBBIE: Up against the wall .
DUKE: I 'm going to kill him . I 'm going to kill him . I 'm going to kill everybody . ha-ha-ha
LOUIE: Drop it motherfucker .
BUD: Oww shit .
OTTO: Debbie Ah . Ah Do You , uh , do you think it 's too late uh for us to get romantically involved ?
DEBBIE: I think a little .
OTTO: Wait ! Wait ! Stick with me . I 'll make you a repo wife .
DEBBI: Bollocks . Here .
DUKE: Otto ?
OTTO: Yeah I 'm here man .
DUKE: The lights are growing dim . I know a life of crime led me to this sorry fate . And yet I I blame society . Society made me what I am .
OTTO: That 's bullshit . You 're a white suburban punk , just like me .
DUKE: But it still hurts .
OTTO: You 're going to be all right man Duke pukes up some blood .
AGENT: Yep he 's dead all right .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Do n't touch the body , do n't touch the ody .
AGENT: Sorry .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Do n't bother me now .
AGENT: But Agent Rogersz , it 's the Gipper .
OTTO'S DAD: Have n't seen you in a while , Son .
TV: No escape
OTTO'S MOM: Some men were just here looking fo you , Otto .
TV: No salvation from the blistering files of eternal damnation . For in these days there shall be hell in time , there shall e war and more war , and earthquakes in diverse places
OTTO: What kind of men ?
OTTO'S MOM: Very nice young men . They wore sunglasses .
OTTO: Well , what did you tell them ? Did you tell them I was sick ?
OTTO'S DAD: We told them the truth , son . Gave them your address at work .
TV: Money shall run out and the people will line up at the banks and there wo n't e anything . . . these prophecies are in your bible . The same one that you have in your home . Now I want you to get up off of your sofa and put that eer down and go wherever it is in you house pick up that book and turn with me
AGENT: Where 's the car baby ? That Chevy Malibu aby . Where 's the car ?
PLETTSCHNER: Otto !
OTTO: Jeeze .
PLETTSCHNER: You got to stay out of this .
OTTO: Why ?
PLETTSCHNER: It 's none of your business . You want to be a hero ? Or would you rather be a chicken man ?
OTTO: What ?
PLETTSCHNER: A chicken man . Did you ever see a farmer 's wife ? Huh ?
OTTO: Let go of me !
[PLETTSCHNER: It 's peaceful man . ] Inside the Helping hand office
AGENT 1: The Malibu .
AGENT 2: Yeah ?
MARLENE: Let 's go
OTTO: No way Marlene .
MARLENE: Like hell we are .
AGENT 2: Not in my face .
PLETTSCHNER: Hold it Marlene . Freeze ! Marlene drops chair .
AGENT 2: My Face !
MARLENE: Over my dead body .
PLETTSCHNER: That 's how it 's going to have to be .
MARLENE: Come and get me . Come on .
PLETTSCHNER: I 've been wanting to do that one fo a long time honey .
MARLENE: Come on . Come on . Come on if you think your man enough .
OTTO: Hey Fletch . Coffee break .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Good evening Otto . This is agent Rogersz . I 'm going to ask you a few questions . And since time is short and you may lie , I 'm going to have to torture you . But I want you to know it is n't personal .
OTTO: Look Ah this is n't really necessary . I 'll tell you anything you want to know .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Good ! Where is the Malibu ?
OTTO: I do n't know . Somebody ripped it from the yard .
LEILA: I do n't think he knows .
AGENT ROGERSZ: Increase the voltage .
LEILA: But what if he 's innocent ?
AGENT ROGERSZ: No one is innocent . Proceed .
AGENT 1: But agent Rogersz , they 're getting away .
AGENT ROGERSZ: That 's all part of the plan . Brothers , Marlene , and Otto drive away .
MARLENE: Otto , Otto pull your self together .
OTTO: Marlene ? What 's going on ?
MARLENE: We 're going to the hospital .
OLD LADY: Hey , I know you . You 're the one that un into my trash .
OTTO: Shh !
OLD LADY: Shhh to you too .
LAGARTO: Out of order . Take the stairs .
NOTE: Dr. Benway and Mr. Lee are both characters from `` The Naked Lunch ''
KEVIN: Otto ?
NURSE 1: Let me see that . All wrong do it over .
OLD LADY: They 're going through it all the and they wo n't pick it up .
NURSE 2: Oh well is n't that a shame .
OLD LADY: Oh tell you it comes to something when they expect you to pick it up .
OTTO: How are you doing man ?
MARLENE: Ask him about the Malibu .
OTTO: Look about the other night . I 'm sorry I split . I know I should have stayed with you but ah it 's like when I was a kid you know I I had this set of big wheels you know .
MARLENE: Otto !
BUD: Shit .
REVEREND LARRY: Praise the lord .
NAPOLEON: Go . Go . Go .
OTTO: Dude slow down .
NAPOLEON: All right do n't shoot come on all right all right
AGENTS: Chicken shits . braak-braak-braak
AGENT ROGERSZ: Where 's the Malibu ?
OTTO: Do n't even ask because I do n't know . I mean I do n't have it Marlene does n't have it you and your crazy friends do n't have it . So that only leaves
AGENT: Where is he .
NAPOLEON: Later !
MARLENE: Bye , Bye .
OTTO: That 's some weird fucking shit Eh Bud ? What 's going on man ?
BUD: Shit ! Eleven years of repoing cars and what have I got ? Shit !
OTTO: Bud listen to me . You 're sitting in a car worth twenty thousand dollars . Look look we we turn it in we take the money and split it sixty forty . You and me . pre
MR. PINK: `` Like a Virgin '' is all about a girl who digs a guy with a big dick . The whole song is a metaphor for big dicks .
MR. BLUE: No it 's not . It 's about a girl who is very vulnerable and she 's een fucked over a few times . Then she meets some guy who 's eally sensitive
MR. PINK: Whoawhoatime out Greenbay . Tell that bullshit to the tourists .
JOE: Tobywho the fuck is Toby ? TobyTobythinkthink think
MR. PINK: It 's not about a nice girl who meets a sensitive boy . Now granted that 's what `` True Blue '' is about , no argument about that .
MR. ORANGE: Which one is `` True Blue ? ''
MR. BROWN: I hate Madonna .
MR. BLUE: I like her early stuff . You know , `` Lucky Star , '' `` Borderline '' - but once she got into her `` Papa Do n't Preach '' phase , I do n't know , I tuned out .
MR. PINK: Hey , fuck all that , I 'm making a point here . You 're gon na make me lose my train of thought .
JOE: Oh fuck , Toby 's that little china girl .
MR. WHITE: What 's that ?
JOE: I found this old address book in a jacket I ai n't worn in a coon 's age . Toby what ? What the fuck was her last name ?
MR. PINK: Where was I ?
MR. ORANGE: You said `` True Blue '' was about a nice girl who finds a sensitive fella . But `` Like a Virgin '' was a metaphor for big dicks .
MR. PINK: Let me tell ya what `` Like a Virgin '' 's about . It 's about some cooze who 's a regular fuck machine . I mean all the time , morning , day , night , afternoon , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick , dick .
MR. BLUE: How many dicks was that ?
MR. WHITE: A lot .
MR. PINK: Then one day she meets a John Holmes motherfucker , and it 's like , whoa baby . This mothe fucker 's like Charles Bronson in `` The Great Escape . '' He 's diggin tunnels . Now she 's gettin this serious dick action , she 's feelin something she ai n't felt since forever . Pain .
JOE: Chew ? Toby Chew ? No .
MR. PINK: It hurts . It hurts her . It should n't hurt . Her pussy should e Bubble-Yum by now . But when this cat fucks her , it hurts . It hurts like the first time . The pain is reminding a fuck machine what is was like to be a virgin . Hence , `` Like a Virgin . '' The fellas crack up .
JOE: Wong ?
MR. PINK: Fuck you , wrong . I 'm right ! What the fuck do you know about it anyway ? You 're still listening to Jerry-fucking-Vale .
JOE: Not wrong , dumb ass , Wong ! You know , like the Chinese name ?
MR. WHITE: Give me this fucking thing .
JOE: What the fuck do you think you 're doin ? Give me my book back !
MR. WHITE: I 'm sick of fuckin hearin it Joe , I 'll give it back when we leave .
JOE: Whaddaya mean , give it to me when we leave , give it back now .
MR. WHITE: For the past fifteen minutes now , you 've just been droning on with names . `` TobyTobyToby Toby WongToby WongToby Chungfuckin Charlie Chan . '' I got Madonna 's big dick outta my ight ear , and Toby Jap I-don't- know-what , outta my left .
JOE: What do you care ?
MR. WHITE: When you 're annoying as hell , I care a lot .
JOE: Give me my book .
MR. WHITE: You gon na put it away ?
JOE: I 'm gon na do whatever I wan na do with it .
MR. WHITE: Well , then , I 'm afraid I 'm gon na have to keep it .
MR. BLONDE: Joe , you want me to shoot him fo you ?
MR. WHITE: Shit , you shoot me in a dream , you etter wake up and apologize .
MR. PINK: Yeah , it 's fuckin great is n't it ?
MR. BLUE: You did n't know Vicki Lawrence killed the guy ?
MR. BLONDE: They say it in the song .
JOE: No , she did it . She killed the cheatin wife , too .
MR. PINK: You know the part in `` Gypsies , Tramps and Theives , '' when she says `` Poppa woulda shot his if he knew what he 'd done ? '' I could neve figure out what he did .
WAITRESS: Can I get anybody more coffee .
JOE: No , we 're gon na be hittin it . I 'll take care of the check . She hands the bill to him .
WAITRESS: Here ya go . Please pay at the egister , if you would n't mind .
JOE: Sure thing .
WAITRESS: You guys have a wonderful day .
JOE: I 'll take care of this , you guys leave the tip . And when I come back , I want my ook back .
MR. WHITE: Sorry , it 's my book now .
JOE: Blonde , shoot this piece of shit , will ya ?
MR. WHITE: Uh-uh . I do n't tip .
MR. PINK: I love this kid , he 's a madman , this guy .
MR. BLONDE: Do you have any idea what these ladies make ? They make shit .
MR. WHITE: Do n't give me that . She do n't make enough money , she can quit . Everybody laughs .
MR. BLUE: Our girl was nice .
MR. WHITE: Our girl was okay . She did n't do anything special .
MR. BLONDE: What 's something special , take ya in the kitchen and suck your dick ? They all laugh .
MR. WRITE: Look , I ordered coffee . Now we 've een here a long fuckin time , and she 's only filled my cup three times . When I order coffee , I want it filled six times .
MR. BLONDE: What if she 's too busy ?
MR. WHITE: The words `` too busy '' should n't be in a waitress 's vocabulary .
MR. ORANGE: It is that too
MR. BLONDE: So you do n't care that they 're counting on your tip to live ? Mr. White rubs two of his fingers together .
MR. WHITE: Do you know what this is ? It 's the world 's smallest violin , playing just for the waitresses .
MR. BLONDE: You do n't have any idea what you 're talking about . These people bust their ass . This is a hard job .
MR. WHITE: So 's working at McDonald 's , but you do n't feel the need to tip them . They 're servin ya food , you should tip em . But no , society says tip these guys over here , but not those guys over there . That 's ullshit .
MR. ORANGE: They work harder than the kids at McDonald 's .
MR. WHITE: Oh yeah , I do n't see them cleaning fryers .
MR. BROWN: These people are taxed on the tips they make . When you stiff 'em , you cost them money .
MR. BLONDE: Waitressing is the number one occupation for female non-college graduates in this country . It 's the one jab basically any woman can get , and make a living on . The reason is because of tips .
MR. WHITE: Fuck all that . They all laugh .
MR. ORANGE: He 's convinced me . Give me my dollar back .
JOE: Okay ramblers , let 's get to ambling . Wait a minute , who did n't throw in ?
MR. ORANGE: Mr. White .
JOE: Mr. White ? Why ?
MR. ORANGE: He do n't tip .
JOE: He do n't tip ? You do n't tip ? Why ?
MR. ORANGE: He do n't believe in it .
JOE: He do n't believe in it ? You do n't believe in it ?
MR. ORANGE: Nope .
JOE: Shut up ! Cough up the buck , ya cheap astard , I paid for your goddamn eakfast .
MR. WHITE: Because you paid for the eakfast , I 'm gon na tip . Normally I would n't .
JOE: Whatever . Just throw in you dollar , and let 's move . See what I 'm dealing with here . Infants . I 'm fuckin dealin with infants .
MR. WHITE: Hey , just cancel that shit right now ! You 're hurt . You 're hurt eally fucking bad , but you ai n't dying .
MR. ORANGE: All this blood is scaring the shit outta me . I 'm gon na die , I know it .
MR. WHITE: Oh excuse me , I did n't realize you had a degree in medicine . Are you a doctor ? Are you a doctor ? Answer me please , are you a doctor ?
MR. ORANGE: No , I 'm not !
MR. WRITE: Ahhhh , so you admit you do n't know what you 're talking about . So if you 're through giving me you amateur opinion , lie back and listen to the news . I 'm taking you back to the rendezvous , Joe 's gon na get you a doctor , the doctor 's gon na fix you up , and you 're gon na be okay . Now say it you 're gon na be okay . Say it you 're gon na be okay !
MR. WHITE: Say-the-goddamn-words you 're gon na be okay !
MR. ORANGE: I 'm okay .
MR. WHITE: Correct .
MR. ORANGE: Joe .
MR. WHITE: Bet your sweet ass we are .
MR. ORANGE: Do n't leave me !
MR. WHITE: I ai n't going anywhere . I 'm right here . I 'm not gon na leave ya .
MR. ORANGE: Larry , I 'm so scared , would you please hold me .
MR. WHITE: Go ahead and be scared , you 've een brave enough for one day . I want you to just relax now . You 're not gon na die , you 're gon na e fine . When Joe gets here , he 'll make ya a hundred percent again .
MR. ORANGE: Look , I do n't wan na be a fly in the ointment , but if help does n't come soon , I got ta see a doctor . I do n't give a fuck about jail , I just do n't wan na die .
MR. WHITE: You 're not gon na fucking die , all ight ?
MR. ORANGE: I was n't born yesterday . I 'm hurt , and I 'm hurt bad .
MR. WHITE: It 's not good
MR. ORANGE: Hey , bless your heart for what you 're trying to do . I was panicking for a moment , but I 've got my senses back now . The situation is , I 'm shot in the elly . And without medical attention , I 'm gon na die .
MR. WHITE: I can ' take you to a hospital .
MR. ORANGE: Fuck jail ! I do n't give a shit about jail . But I ca n't die . You do n't have to take me in . Just drive me up to the front , drop me on the sidewalk . I 'll take care of myself . I wo n't tell them anything . I swear to fucking god , I wo n't tell 'em anything . Look in my eyes , look right in my eyes . I-won't-tell-them-anything . You 'll be safe .
MR. WHITE: Lie back down , and try to
MR. ORANGE: I 'm going to die ! I need a doctor ! I 'm begging you , take me to a doctor .
MR. PINK: Was that a fucking set-up or what ?
MR. WHITE: Gun shot .
MR. PINK: Oh that 's just fucking great ! Where 's Brown ?
MR. WHITE: Dead .
MR. PINK: Goddamn , goddamn ! How did he die ?
MR. WHITE: How the fuck do you think ? The cops shot him .
MR. PINK: Oh this is bad , this is so bad . Is it bad ?
MR. WHITE: As opposed to good ?
MR. PINK: This is so fucked up . Somebody fucked us big time .
MR. WHITE: You really think we were set up ?
MR. PINK: You even doubt it ? I do n't think we got set up , I know we got set up ! I mean really , seriously , where did all those cops come from , huh ? One minute they 're not there , the next minute they 're there . I did n't hear any sirens . The alarm went off , okay . Okay , when an alarm goes off , you got an average of four minutes esponse time . Unless a patrol car is cruising that street , at that particular moment , you got four minutes before they can ealistically respond . In one minute there were seventeen blue oys out there . All loaded fo ear , all knowing exactly what the fuck they were doing , and they were all just there ! Remembe that second wave that showed up in the cars ? Those were the ones esponding to the alarm . but those other motherfuckers were already there , they were waiting for us . You have n't thought about this ?
MR. WHITE: I have n't had a chance to think . First I was just trying to get the fuck outta there . And after we got away , I 've just been dealin with him .
MR. PINK: Well , you better start thinking about it . Cause I , sure as fuck , am thinking about it . In fact , that 's all I 'm thinking about . I came this close to just driving off . Whoever set us up , knows about this place . There could 've een cops sitting here waiting fo me . For all we know , there 's cops , driving fast , on their way here now .
MR. WHITE: Let 's go in the other room
MR. PINK: I 'm cool .
MR. WHITE: Splash some water on your face . Take a breather .
MR. PINK: Why not ? The two men light up .
MR. WHITE: Okay , let 's go through what happened . We 're in the place , everything 's going fine . Then the alarm gets tripped . I turn around and all these cops are outside . You 're right , it was like , bam ! I link my eyes are they 're there . Everybody starts going apeshit . Then Mr. Blonde starts shootin all the
MR. PINK: That 's not correct .
MR. WHITE: What 's wrong with it ?
MR. PINK: The cops did n't show up after the alarm went off . They did n't show till after Mr. Blonde started shooting everyone .
MR. WHITE: As soon as I heard the alarm , I saw the cops .
MR. PINK: I 'm telling ya , it was n't that soon . They did n't let thei presence be known until after Mr. Blonde went off . I 'm not sayin they were n't there , I 'm sayin they were there . But they did n't move in till Mr. Blonde became a madman . That 's how I know we were set up . You can see that , ca n't you , Mr. White ?
MR. WHITE: Look , enough of this `` Mr White '' shit
MR. PINK: Do n't tell me your name , I do n't want to know ! I sure as hell ai n't gon na tell ya mine .
MR. WHITE: You 're right , this is bad . How did you get out ?
MR. PINK: Shot my way out . Everybody was shooting , so I just blasted my way outta there .
MR. WHITE: A few cops .
MR. PINK: No real people ?
MR. WHITE: Uh-uh , just cops .
MR. PINK: Could you believe Mr. Blonde ?
MR. WHITE: That was one of the most insane fucking things I 've ever seen . Why the fuck would Joe hire somebody like that ?
MR. PINK: I do n't wan na kill anybody . But if I got ta get out that door , and you 're standing in my way , one way of the other , you 're gettin outta my way .
MR. WHITE: That 's the way I look at it . A choice between doin ten years , and takin out some stupid motherfucker , ai n't no choice at all . But I ai n't no madman either . What the fuck was Joe thinkin ? You ca n't work with a guy like that . That mother- fucker 's unstable . What do you think ? Do you think he panicked , or ya think he 's just trigger- happy ?
MR. PINK: I think he 's a sick fuckin maniac ! We 're awful goddamn lucky he did n't tag us , when he shot up the place . I came this fucking close to taking his ass out myself . Everybody panics . When things get tense , everybody panics . Everybody . I do n't care what you name is , you ca n't help it . It 's human nature . But ya panic on the inside . Ya panic in your head . Ya give yourself a couple a seconds of panic , then you get a grip and deal with the situation . What you do n't do , is shoot up the place and kill everybody .
MR. WHITE: What you 're supposed to do is act like a fuckin professional . A psychopath is not a professional . You ca n't work with a psychopath , 'cause ya do n't know what those sick assholes are gon na do next . I mean , Jesus Christ , how old do you think that black girl was ? Twenty , maybe twenty-one ?
MR. PINK: Did ya see what happened to anybody else ?
MR. WHITE: Me and Mr. Orange jumped in the car and Mr. Brown floored it . After that , I do n't know what went down .
MR. PINK: At that point it became every man for himself . As far as Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue are concerned , I ai n't got the foggiest . Once I got out , I never looked back .
MR. WHITE: What do you think ?
MR. PINK: What do I think ? I think the cops caught them , or killed 'em .
MR. WHITE: Not even a chance they punched through ? You found a hole .
MR. PINK: Yeah , and that was a fucking miracle . But if they did get away , where the fuck are they ?
MR. WHITE: You do n't think it 's possible , one of them got ahold of the diamonds and pulled a
MR. PINK: Nope .
MR. WHITE: How can you be so sure ?
MR. PINK: I got the diamonds .
MR. WHITE: Where ?
MR. PINK: I got 'em , all right ?
MR. WHITE: Where ? Are they out in the car ?
MR. PINK: No , they 're not in the car . No , I do n't have them on me . Ya wan na go with me and get 'em ? Yes , we can go right now . But first listen to what I 'm telling you . We were fuckin set up ! Somebody is in league with the cops . We got a Judas in our midst . And I 'm thinkin we should have our fuckin heads examined for waiting around here .
MR. WHITE: That was the plan , we meet here .
MR. PINK: Then where is everybody ? I say the plan became null and void once we found out we got a rat in the house . We ai n't got the slightest fuckin idea what happened to Mr. Blonde or Mr. Blue . They could oth be dead or arrested . They could be sweatin 'em , down at the station house right now . Yeah they do n't know the names , but they can sing about this place . I mean , that could be happening ight now . As we speak , the cops could be in their cars , drivin here this minute .
MR. WHITE: I swear to god I 'm fuckin jinxed .
MR. PINK: What ?
MR. WHITE: Two jobs back , it was a four man job , we discovered one of the team was an undercover cop .
MR. PINK: No shit ?
MR. WHITE: Thank god , we discovered in time . We hadda forget the whole fuckin thing . Just walked away from it .
MR. PINK: So who 's the rat this time ? Mr. Blue ? Mr. Blonde ? Joe ? It 's Joe 's show , he set this whole thing up . Maybe he set it up to set it up .
MR. WHITE: I do n't buy it . Me and Joe go ack a long time . I can tell ya straight up , Joe definitely did n't have anything to do with this ullshit .
MR. PINK: Oh , you and Joe go back a long time . I known Joe since I was a kid . But me saying Joe definitely could n't have done it is idiculous . I can say I definitely did n't do it , cause I know what I did or did n't do . But I ca n't definitely say that about anybody else , 'cause I do n't definitely know . For all I know , you 're the rat .
MR. WHITE: For all I know , you 're the rat .
MR. PINK: Now you 're using your head . Fo all we know , he 's the rat .
MR. WHITE: Jesus Christ !
MR. PINK: Is he dead ?
MR. WHITE: He ai n't dead .
MR. PINK: So what is it ?
MR. WHITE: I think he 's just passed out .
MR. PINK: He scared the fuckin shit outta me . I thought he was dead fe sure .
MR. WHITE: He will be dead fer sure , if we do n't get him to a hospital .
MR. PINK: We ca n't take him to a hospital .
MR. WHITE: Without medical attention , this man wo n't live through the night . That bullet in his belly is my fault . Now while that might not mean jack shit to you , it means a helluva lot to me . And I 'm not gon na just sit around and watch him die .
MR. PINK: Well , first things first , staying here 's goofy . We got ta book up .
MR. WHITE: So what do you suggest , we go to a hotel ? We got a guy who 's shot in the belly , he ca n't walk , he leeds like a stuck pig , and when he 's awake , he screams in pain .
MR. PINK: You got ta idea , spit it out .
MR. WHITE: Joe could help him . If we can get in touch with Joe , Joe could get him to a doctor , Joe could get a doctor to come and see him .
MR. PINK: You did n't tell him your name , did ya ?
MR. PINK: Ya wan na fuck with me ? ! You wan na fuck with me ? ! I 'll show you who you 're fuckin with !
MR. WHITE: You wan na shoot me , you little piece of shit ? Take a shot !
MR. PINK: Fuck you , White ! I did n't create this situation , I 'm just dealin with it . You 're acting like a first-year fuckin thief . I 'm actin like a professional . They get him , they can get you , they get you , they get closer to me , and that ca n't happen . And you , you motherfucker , are looking at me like it 's my fault . I did n't tell him my name . I did n't tell him where I was from . I did n't tell him what I knew better than to tell him . Fuck , fifteen minutes ago , you almost told me your name . You , buddy , are stuck in a situation you created . So if you wan na throw bad looks somewhere , throw 'em at a mirror .
MR. WHITE: Enough ! You better start talkin to us , asshole , cause we got shit we need to talk about . We 're already freaked out , we need you actin freaky like we need a fuckin ag on our hip .
MR. BLONDE: So , talk .
MR. WHITE: We think we got a rat in the house .
MR. PINK: I guarantee we got a rat in the house .
MR. BLONDE: What would ever make you think that ?
MR. WHITE: Is that supposed to be funny ?
MR. PINK: We do n't think this place is safe .
MR. WHITE: This place just ai n't secure anymore . We 're leaving , and you should go with us .
MR. BLONDE: Nobody 's going anywhere .
MR. WHITE: Piss on this turd , we 're outta here . Mr. White turns to leave .
MR. BLONDE: Do n't take another step , Mr. White .
MR. WHITE: Fuck you , maniac ! It 's you fuckin fault we 're in so much trouble .
MR. BLONDE: What 's this guy 's problem ?
MR. WHITE: What 's my problem ? Yeah , I got ta problem . I got ta big problem with any trigger-happy madman who almost gets me shot !
MR. BLONDE: What 're you talkin about ?
MR. WHITE: That fuckin shooting spree in the store .
MR. BLONDE: Fuck 'em , they set off the alarm , they deserve what they got .
MR. WHITE: You almost killed me , asshole ! If I had any idea what type of guy you were , I never would 've agreed to work with you .
MR. BLONDE: You gon na back all day , little doggie , or are you gon na bite ?
MR. WHITE: What was that ? I 'm sorry , I did n't catch it . Would you repeat it ?
MR. BLONDE: I said `` Are you gon na bark all day , dog , or are you gon na bite . ''
MR. PINK: Both of you two assholes knock it the fuck off and calm down !
MR. WHITE: So you wan na git bit , huh ?
MR. PINK: Cut the bullshit , we ai n't on a fuckin playground ! I do n't believe this shit , both of you got ten years on me , and I 'm the only one actin like a professional . You guys act like a unch of fuckin niggers . You eve work a job with a bunch of niggers ? They 're just like you two , always fightin , always sayin they 're gon na kill one another .
MR. WHITE: You said yourself , you thought about takin him out .
MR. PINK: Then . That time has passed . Right now , Mr. Blonde is the only one I completely trust . He 's too fuckin homicidal to be workin with the cops .
MR. WHITE: You takin his side ?
MR. PINK: Fuck sides ! What we need is a little solidarity here . Somebody 's stickin a red hot poke up our asses and we got ta find out whose hand 's on the handle . Now I know I 'm no piece of shit And I 'm pretty sure you 're a good oy And I 'm fuckin positive you 're on the level . So let 's figure out who 's the bad guy . Mr. White calms down and puts his gun away .
MR. BLONDE: Well , that was sure exciting . You 're a big Lee Marvin fan , are n't you ? Me too . I do n't know about the rest of you fellas , but my heart 's eatin fast . Okay you guys , follow me .
MR. WHITE: Follow you where ?
MR. BLONDE: Down to my car .
MR. WHITE: Why ?
MR. BLONDE: It 's a surprise . Mr. Blonde walks out .
MR. PINK: We still got ta get out of here .
MR. BLONDE: We 're gon na sit here and wait .
MR. WHITE: For what , the cops ?
MR. BLONDE: Nice Guy Eddie .
MR. PINK: Nice Guy Eddie ? What makes you think Nice Guy 's anywhere but on a plane half way to Costa Rica ?
MR. BLONDE: Cause I just talked to him . He 's on his way down here , and nobody 's going anywhere till be gets here .
MR. WHITE: You talked to Nice Guy Eddie ? Why the fuck did n't you say that in the first place ?
MR. BLONDE: You did n't ask .
MR. WHITE: Hardy-fuckin-har . What did he say ?
MR. BLONDE: Stay put . Okay , fellas , take a look at the little surprise I ought you .
JOE: Sid , I 'm tellin you do n't worry about it . You had a bad couple of months , it happens . Sid , Sid , SidStop , you 're embarrassing me . I do n't need to e told what I already know . When you have bad months , you do what every business man in the worlds does , I do n't care if he 's Donald Trump or Irving the tailor . Ya ride it out . There 's a KNOCK on Cabot 's office door .
TEDDY: Vic Vega 's outside .
JOE: Tell him to come in . Teddy leaves .
VIC: It 's a change .
JOE: Ai n't that a sad truth . Remy Martin ?
VIC: Sure .
JOE: Take a seat .
VIC: A guy named Koons . Craig Koons .
JOE: How is he ?
VIC: Fuckin asshole , wo n't let me leave the halfway house .
JOE: Never ceases to amaze me . Fuckin jungle bunny goes out there , slits some old woman 's throat fo twenty-five cents . Fuckin nigge gets Doris Day as a parole officer . But a good fella like you gets stuck with a ball-bustin prick .
VIC: I just want you to know , Joe , how much I appreciate your care packages on the inside .
JOE: What the hell did you expect me to do ? Just forget about you ?
VIC: I just wanted you to know , they meant a lot .
JOE: It 's the least I could do Vic . I wish I coulda done more . Vic . Toothpick Vic . Tell me a story ? What 're your plans ?
VIC: Well , what I wan na do is go back to work . But I got this Koons prick deep up my ass . He wo n't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job . My plans have always been to be part of the team again . There 's a KNOCK at the door .
JOE: Come in .
EDDIE: I see ya sittin here , but I do n't elieve it . Vic gets out of his seat and hugs Eddie .
VIC: Fine , now .
EDDIE: I 'm sorry man , I shoulda picked you up personally at the pen . This whole week 's just been crazy . I 've had my head up my ass the entire time .
VIC: Funny you should mention it . That 's what your father and I been talkin about .
EDDIE: That I should 've picked you up ?
VIC: No . That your head 's been up you ass . I walk through the door and Joe says `` Vic , you 're back , thank god . Finally somebody who knows what the fuck he 's doing . Vic , Vic , Vic , Eddie , my son , is a fuck up . '' And I say `` Well , Joe , I coulda told you that . '' `` I 'm uined ! He 's ruining me ! My son , I love him , but he 's taking my usiness and flushing it down the fuckin toilet ! '' I 'm not tellin tales out of school . You tell 'im Joe . Tell 'im yourself .
JOE: Eddie , I hate like hell for you to hear it this way . But when Vic asked me how 's business , well , you do n't lie to a man who 's just done four years in the slammer for ya . Eddie bobs his head up and down .
EDDIE: Oh really , is that a fact ? Eddie JUMPS Vic and they fall to the floor .
JOE: Okay , okay , enough , enough ! Playtime 's over ! You wan na roll around on the floor , do it in Eddie 's office , not mine !
EDDIE: Daddy , did ya see that ?
JOE: What ?
EDDIE: Guy got me on the ground , tried to fuck me .
VIC: You fuckin wish .
EDDIE: You tried to fuck me in my father 's office , you sick bastard . Look , Vic , whatever you wan na do in the privacy of your own home , go do it . But do n't try to fuck me . I do n't think of you that way . I mean , I like you a lot
VIC: Eddie , if I was a pirate , I would n't throw you to the crew .
EDDIE: No , you 'd keep me for yourself . Four years fuckin punks in the ass made you appreciate prime rib when you get it .
VIC: I might break you , Nice Guy , but I 'd make you my dog 's bitch . You 'd be suckin the dick and going down on a mangy T-bone hound .
EDDIE: Now ai n't that a sad sight , daddy , walks into jail a white man , walks out talkin like a nigger . It 's all that black semen been shootin up his butt . It 's backed up into his brain and comes out of his mouth .
JOE: Are you two finished ? We were talkin about some serious shit when you came in Eddie . We got a ig problem we 're tryin to solve . Now Eddie , would you like to sit down and help us solve it , or do you two wan na piss fart around ?
EDDIE: Really ? Who 's your P.O . ?
VIC: Craig Koons .
EDDIE: Koons ? Oh shit , I hear he 's a motherfucker .
VIC: He is a motherfucker . He wo n't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job .
EDDIE: You 're coming back to work for us , ight ?
VIC: I wan na . But I got ta show this asshole I got an honest-to- goodness job before he 'll let me move out on my own . I ca n't work for you guys and be worried about gettin back before ten o'clock curfew .
JOE: We can work this out , ca n't we ?
EDDIE: This is n't all that bad . We can give you a lot of legitimate jobs . Put you on the rotation at Long Beach as a dock worker .
VIC: I do n't wan na lift crates .
EDDIE: You do n't hafta lift shit . You do n't really work there . But as far as the records are concerned , you do . I call up Matthews , the foreman , tell him he 's got a new guy . You 're on the schedule . You got a timecard , it 's clocked in and out for you everyday , and you get a pay check at the end of the week . And ya know dock workers do n't do too bad . So you can move into a halfway decent place without Koons thinkin `` what the fuck . '' And if Koons ever wants to make a surprise visit , you 're gone that day . That day we sent you to Tustin . We got ta bunch of shit you needed to unload there . You 're at the Taft airstrip pickin up a bunch of shit and bringing it ack . Part of your jab is goin different places - and we got places all over the place .
JOE: Did n't I tell ya not to worry ? Vic was worried .
EDDIE: Me and you 'll drive down to Long Beach tomorrow . I 'll introduce you to Matthews , tell him what 's going on .
VIC: That 's great , guy , thanks a bunch . When do you think you 'll need me for real work ?
JOE: Well , it 's kinda a strange time ight now . Things are kinda
EDDIE: Nuts . We got a big meeting in Vegas coming up . And we 're kinda just gettin ready for that right now .
JOE: Let Nice Guy set you up at Long Beach . Give ya some cash , get that Koons fuck off your back , and we 'll be talking to ya .
EDDIE: Daddy , I got an idea . Now just hear it out . I know you do n't like to use any of the boys on these jobs , but technically , Vic ai n't one of the boys . He 's been gone for four years . He ai n't on no one 's list . Ya know he can handle himself , ya know you can trust him . Joe looks at Vic . Vic has no idea what they 're talking about .
JOE: How would you feel about pullin a heist with about five other guys ?
VIC: What 's the exposure like ?
JOE: Two minutes , tops . It 's a tough two minutes . It 's a hold up , daylight , during business hours , dealing with a crowd . But you have the fellas to deal with the crowd . It 's a jewelry store . They 're getting a big shipment of South African diamonds on a certain day . They 're like a way station . It 's gon na get picked up the next day and sent to Hamburg . When you walk through the door , you 'll know right where to go fo the rich stones . The fellas are good , me and Nice Guy picked em . Nobody knows anybody else . Nobody 's connected . I do n't use connected guys fo this shit .
VIC: What 's the cut ?
JOE: Juicy , man , real juicy . Toothpick Vic smiles . So does Nice Guy Eddie .
EDDIE: Hey Dov , we got a major situation here . I know you know that . I got ta talk with daddy and find out what he wants done .
EDDIE: All I know is what Vic told me . He said the place turned into a fuckin bullet festival . He took a cop as hostage , just to get the fuck out of there .
EDDIE: Do I sound like I 'm jokin ? He 's fuckin driving around with the cop in his trunk . I do n't know who did that . I do n't know who has the loot , if anybody has the loot . Who 's dead , who 's alive , who 's caught , who 's not I will know , I 'm practically there . But what do I tell these guys about daddy ? You sure that 's what he said ? Okay , that 's what I 'll tell em .
MR. WHITE: No shit , he 's gon na fuckin die on us if we do n't get him taken care of .
MR. PINK: We were set up , the cops were waiting for us .
EDDIE: What ? Nobody set anybody up .
MR. PINK: The cops were there waitin for us !
EDDIE: Bullshit .
MR. PINK: Hey , fuck you man , you were n't there , we were . And I 'm tellin ya , the cops had that store staked out .
EDDIE: Okay , Mr. Detective , who did it ?
MR. PINK: What the fuck d'you think we 've een askin each other ?
EDDIE: And what are your answers ? Was it me ? You think I set you up ?
MR. PINK: I do n't know , but somebody did .
EDDIE: Nobody did . You assholes turn the jewelry store into a wild west show , and you wonder why cops show up .
MR. BLONDE: Where 's Joseph ?
EDDIE: I ai n't talked to him . I talked to Dov . Dov said he 's comin out here , and he 's fucking pissed .
MR. PINK: I told ya he 'd be pissed .
MR. WHITE: What are you gon na do about him ?
EDDIE: Jesus Christ , give me a fuckin chance to breathe . I got a few questions of my own , ya know .
MR. WHITE: You ai n't dying , he is .
EDDIE: I 'll call somebody .
MR. WHITE: Who ?
EDDIE: A snake charmer , what the fuck d'you think . I 'll call a doctor , take care of him , fix 'm right up . No , where 's Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue ?
MR. PINK: Brown 's dead , we do n't know about Blue .
EDDIE: Nobody saw what happened to Mr. Blue ?
MR. BLONDE: Well , he 's either dead or he 's alive or the cops got him or they do n't . DOLLY to MEDIUM on the cop .
MR. PINK: So he 'll tell us who the fuck set us up .
EDDIE: Would you stop it with that shit ! You beat on this prick enough , he 'll tell ya he started the Chicago fire . That do n't necessarily make it so . Okay , first things fucking last , where 's the shit ? Please tell me somebody ought something with them .
MR. PINK: I got a bag . I stashed it till I could be sure this place was n't a police station .
EDDIE: Well , let 's go get it . We also got ta get rid of all those cars . It looks like Sam 's hot car lot outside . You stay here and babysit Orange and the cop . You two take a car each , I 'll follow ya . You ditch it , I 'll pick you up , then we 'll pick up the stones . And while I 'm following you , I 'll arrange fo some sort of a doctor for ou friend .
MR. WHITE: We ca n't leave these guys with him . Meaning Mr. Blonde .
EDDIE: Why not ? Mr. White crosses to Mr. Blonde .
MR. WHITE: Because this guy 's a fucking psycho . And if you think Joe 's pissed at us , that ai n't nothing compared to how pissed off I am at him , for puttin me in the same room as this astard .
MR. BLONDE: You see what I been puttin up with ? As soon as I walk through the door I 'm hit with this shit . I tell 'm what you told me about us stayin put and Mr. White whips out his gun , sticks it in my face , and starts screaming `` You motherfucker , I 'm gon na blow you away , blah , blah , blah . ''
MR. WHITE: He 's the reason the place turned into a shooting gallery . What are you , a silent partner ? Fuckin tell him .
MR. PINK: He seems all right now , but he went crazy in the store .
MR. WHITE: This is what he was doin .
MR. BLONDE: I told 'em not to touch the alarm . They touched it . I blew 'em full of holes . If they had n't done what I told 'em not it , they 'd still be alive .
MR. WHITE: That 's your excuse for going on a kill crazy rampage ?
MR. BLONDE: I do n't like alarms .
EDDIE: What does it matter who stays with the cop ? We ai n't lettin him go . Not after he 's seen everybody . You should 've never took him outta your trunk in the first place .
MR. PINK: We were trying to find out what he knew about the set up .
EDDIE: There is no fuckin set up ! Look , this is the news . Blondie , you stay here and take care of them two . White and Pink come with me , 'cuz if Joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front , he 's going to be as mad at me as he is at you .
MR. BLONDE: Alone at last .
COP: I told you I do n't know anything about any fucking set up . I 've only been on the force eight months , nobody tells me anything ! I do n't know anything ! You can torture me if you want
MR. BLONDE: Let 's see what 's on K-BILLY 'S `` super sounds of the seventies '' weekend . He turns on the radio .
MR. ORANGE: What 's your name ?
COP: Jeffrey .
MR. ORANGE: Jeffrey what ?
COP: Jeffrey Andrews .
MR. ORANGE: Listen to me , Jeffrey Andrews . I 'm a cop .
JEFFREY: I know .
MR. ORANGE: You do ?
JEFFREY: Your name 's Freddy something .
MR. ORANGE: Freddy Newendyke .
JEFFREY: Frankie Ferchetti introduced us once , about five months ago .
MR. ORANGE: Shit . I do n't remember that at all .
JEFFREY: I do . How do I look ?
MR. ORANGE: I do n't know what to tell you Jeffrey . Jeffrey starts to weep .
JEFFREY: That fucking bastard ! That fucking sick fucking bastard !
MR. ORANGE: Jeffrey , I need you to hold on . There 's officers positioned and waiting to move in a block away .
JEFFREY: What the fuck are they waiting for ? That motherfucker cut off my ear ! He slashed my face ! I 'm deformed !
MR. ORANGE: And I 'm dying . They do n't know that . All they know is they 're not to make a move until Joe Cabot shows up . I was sent undercove to get Cabot . You heard 'em , they said he 's on his way . Do n't pussy out on me now , Jeffrey . We 're just gon na sit here and bleed until Joe Cabot sticks his fuckin head through that door .
HOLDAWAY: This better not be some Freddy joke .
FREDDY: It ai n't no joke , I 'm in there . I 'm up his ass .
HOLDAWAY: Congratulations .
FREDDY: Nice Guy . When we got to the ar
HOLDAWAY: What bar ?
FREDDY: The Boots and Socks in Gardena . When we got there , I met Joe and a guy named Mr. White . It 's a phony name . My name 's Mr. Orange .
HOLDAWAY: You ever seen this motherfucke efore ?
FREDDY: Who , Mr. White ?
HOLDAWAY: Yeah .
FREDDY: No , he ai n't familiar . He ai n't one of Cabot 's soldiers either . He 's got ta be from outta town . But Joe knows him real well .
HOLDAWAY: How can you tell ?
FREDDY: The way they talk to each other . You can tell they 're buddies .
HOLDAWAY: Did the two of you talk ?
FREDDY: Me and Mr. White ?
HOLDAWAY: Yeah .
FREDDY: A little .
HOLDAWAY: What about ?
FREDDY: The Brewers .
HOLDAWAY: The Milwaukee Brewers ?
FREDDY: Yeah . They had just won the night efore , and he made a killing off 'em .
HOLDAWAY: Well , if this crook 's a Brewers fan , his ass has got ta be from Wisconsin . And I 'll bet you everything from a diddle-eyed Joe to a damned-if-I-know , that in Milwaukee they got a sheet on this Mr. White motherfucker 's ass . I want you to go through the mugs of guys from old Milwaukee with a history of armed robbery , and put a name to that face . Holdaway takes a big bite out of his burger .
FREDDY: Where I was from , who I knew , how I knew Nice Guy , had I done time , shit like that .
HOLDAWAY: It 's a scene . Memorize it .
FREDDY: What ?
HOLDAWAY: A undercover cop has got to be Marlon Brando . To do this job you got to be a great actor . You got to be naturalistic . You got to be naturalistic as hell . If you ai n't a great actor you 're a bad actor , and bad acting is bull shit in this job .
FREDDY: But what is this ?
HOLDAWAY: It 's a amusing anecdote about a drug deal .
FREDDY: What ?
HOLDAWAY: Something funny that happened to you while you were doing a job .
FREDDY: I got ta memorize all this shit ?
HOLDAWAY: It 's like a joke . You remembe what 's important , and the rest you make your own . The only way to make it your own is to keep sayin it , and sayin it , and sayin it , and sayin it , and sayin it .
FREDDY: I can do that .
HOLDAWAY: The things you got ta remember are the details . It 's the details that sell your story . Now this story takes place in this men 's oom . So you got ta know the details about this men 's room . You got ta know they got a blowe instead of a towel to dry you hands . You got ta know the stalls ai n't got no doors . You got ta know whether they got liquid o powdered soap , whether they got hot water or not , 'cause if you do your job when you tell your story , everybody should believe it . And if you tell your story to somebody who 's actually taken a piss in this men 's room , and you get one detail they remember right , they 'll swear by you .
FREDDY: this was during the Los Angeles marijuana drought of '86 . I still had a connection . Which was insane , 'cause you could n't get weed anyfuckinwhere then . Anyway , I had a connection with this hippie chick up in Santa Cruz . All and my friends knew it . And they 'd give me a call and say , `` Hey , Freddy , you buyin some , you think you could buy me some too ? '' They knew I smoked , so they 'd ask me to buy a little for them when I was buyin . But it got to be everytime I bought some weed , I was buyin for four or five different people . Finally I said , `` Fuck this shit . '' I 'm makin this itch rich . She did n't have to do jack shit , she never even had to meet these people . I was fuckin doin all the work . So I got together with her and told her , `` Hey , I 'm sick of this shit . I 'm comin through for everybody , and nobody 's comin through for me . So , either I 'm gon na tell all my friends to find their own source , or you give me a bunch of weed , I 'll sell it to them , give you the money , minus ten percent , and I get my pot for free . '' So , I did if for awhile Freddy exits frame
MR. WHITE: What for ?
FREDDY: Traffic tickets gone to warrant . They stopped him for something , found the warrants on 'im , took 'im to jail . She does n't want to walk around alone with all that weed . Well , I do n't wan na do this , I have a bad feeling about it , but she keeps askin me , keeps askin me , finally I said okay 'cause I 'm sick of listening to it . Well , we 're picking this guy up at the train station .
JOE: You 're picking the buyer up at the train station ? You 're carrying the weed on you ?
FREDDY: Yeah , the guy needed it right away . Do n't ask me why . So we get to the train station , and we 're waitin for the guy . Now I 'm carrying the weed in one of those carry-on bags , and I got ta take a piss . So I tell the connection I 'll be right back , I 'm goin ' to the little boys room
MR. WHITE: That 's hard , man . That 's a fuckin hard situation .
SHERIFF #1: Shut up !
SHERIFF #2: So my gun 's drawn , right ? I got it aimed right at him . I tell 'em , `` Freeze , do n't fuckin move . '' And the little idiot 's lookin at me , nodding his head `` Yes , '' sayin `` I knowI knowI know . '' Meanwhile his right hand is creepin towards his glove box . So I scream at him , `` Asshole , you etter fuckin freeze right now ! '' And he 's still lookin right at me , saying `` I knowI knowI know . '' And his right hand 's still going fo the glove box .
SHERIFF #1: What was he goin for ?
SHERIFF #2: His registration . Stupid fuckin citizen , does n't have the slightest idea how close he came to gettin shot .
HOLDAWAY: Lawrence Dimick . Let 's see what we got on him .
JODIE: This is your life , Lawrence Dimick !
FREDDY: What was it ?
FREDDY: Goddamn , that 's hard time .
HOLDAWAY: Was this vice squad bullshit in Milwaukee ?
FREDDY: When did he do this time ?
JODIE: Back in '83 , got out late '86 . I found something else out I think you two should be aware of . About a year and a half ago , up in Sacramento , an undercover cop , John Dolenz , worked his way into a ank job . Apparently before the job they found out he was a cop . Now picture this It 's Dolenz 's irthday , a bunch of cops are waiting in his apartment for a surprise party . The door opens , everyone yells `` Surprise ! `` , and standing in the doorway is Dolenz and this other guy sticking a gun in Dolenz 's ribs . Before anybody knows what 's going on , this stranger shoots Dolenz dead and starts firing two .45 automatics into the crowd .
HOLDAWAY: What happened ? The DOLLY moves behind Jodie .
JODIE: It was a mess . Cops got hit , wives got hit , girlfriends got hit , his dog got hit . People got glass in their faces . Three were killed , six were wounded .
FREDDY: They could n't pin the killing on one of the bank robbers ?
JODIE: They tried , but they did n't have a positive I.D . and all those guys had alibis . Besides , we really did n't have anything on them . We had the testimony of a dead man that they were talking about committing a robbery . They never went ahead with the bank job . The DOLLY completes its circle .
FREDDY: And Larry Dimick was one of the oys ?
JODIE: He was probably the one .
HOLDAWAY: Just how sure are you with you cover ? PAN to C.U . on Freddy .
FREDDY: Today they may know something , tomorrow they may know something else . But yesterday they did n't know anything .
FREDDY: Hello .
EDDIE: We 're parked outside .
FREDDY: Do n't pussy out on me now . They do n't know . They do n't know shit . You 're not gon na get hurt . You 're fucking Baretta and they believe every word , cuz you 're super cool .
MR. PINK: Hey , I know what I 'm talkin about , black women ai n't the same as white women .
MR. WHITE: There 's a slight difference . The car laughs .
MR. PINK: Go ahead and laugh , you know what I mean . What a while bitch will put up with , a black bitch wo n't put up with for a minute . They got a line , and if you cross it , they fuck you up .
EDDIE: I got ta go along with Mr . Pink on this . I 've seen it happen .
MR. WHITE: Okay , Mr . Expert . If this is such a truism , how come every nigger I know treats his woman like a piece of shit ?
MR. PINK: I 'll make you a bet that those same damn niggers who were showin their ass in public , when thei itches get 'em home , they chill the fuck out .
MR. WHITE: Not these guys .
MR. PINK: Yeah , those guys too .
EDDIE: Let me tell you guys a story . In one of daddy 's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named Elois .
MR. WHITE: Elois ?
EDDIE: Yeah , Elois . E and Lois . We called her Lady E .
MR. WHITE: Where was she from , Compton ?
EDDIE: No . She was from Ladora Heights .
MR. PINK: The black Beverly Hills . I knew this lady from Ladora Heights once . `` Hi , I 'm from Ladora Heights , it 's the black Beverly Hills . ''
EDDIE: It 's not the black Beverly Hills , it 's the black Palos Verdes . Anyway , this chick , Elois , was a man-eater-upper . I bet every guy who 's ever met her has jacked off to her at least once . You know who she looked like ? Christie Love . 'Member that TV show `` Get Christie Love '' ? She was a black female cop . She always used to say `` You 're under arrest , sugar . ''
MR. PINK: I was in the sixth grade when that show was on . I totally dug it . What the fuck was the name of the chick who played Christie Love ?
EDDIE: Pam Grier .
MR. PINK: No , it was n't Pan Grier , Pan Grie was the other one . Pan Grier made the movies . Christie Love was like a Pam Grier TV show , without Pam Grier .
EDDIE: Well , whoever she was , Elois looked like her . So one night I walk into the club , and no Elois . Now the bartender was a wetback , he was a friend of mine , his name was Carlos . So I asked him `` Hey , Carlos , where 's Lady E tonight ? '' Well apparently Lady E was married to this real piece of dog shit . I mean a real animal . And apparently he would so things to her .
EDDIE: Nobody knows for sure what he did . We just know he did something . Anyway , Elois plays it real cool . And waits for the next time this ag of shit gets drunk . So one night the guy gets drunk and passes out on the couch . So while the guy 's inebriated , she strips him naked . Then she takes some crazy glue and glues his dick to his belly . The car reacts to how horrible that would be .
MR. WHITE: Jesus Christ !
FREDDY: You can do some crazy things with it .
EDDIE: I do n't know what he did to her , ut she got even .
MR. WHITE: Was he all pissed off ?
MR. PINK: How would you feel if you had to do a handstand every time you took a piss . The car laughs .
JOE: So they 're talkin about how they get their wives off , and the French guys says `` All I got ta do is take my pinky and tickle my Fifi 's little oo la la and she rises a foot off the ed . '' Back to Joe . So the dago says
EDDIE: We woulda gotten here sooner , but we got backed up around La Brea and Pico .
JOE: No hurry . All right , let 's get to know one another . With the exception of Eddie and myself , who you already know , you 'll be using aliases . Under no circumstances are you to tell one another your real name o anything else about yourself . That includes where you 're from , your wife 's name , where you might 've done time , about a bank in St. Petersburg you might 've obbed . You guys do n't say shit about who you are , where you been or what you 've done . Only thing you guys can talk about is what you 're going to do . This way the only ones who know who the members of the team are are Eddie and myself . And that 's the way I like it . Because in the unlikely event of one of you getting apprehended y the cops , not that I expect that to happen - it most definitely should not happen - it has n't happened , you do n't have anything to deal with . You do n't know any names . You know my name , you know Eddie 's name . That I do n't care about . You got ta prove it . I ai n't worried . Besides , this way you got ta trust me . I like that . I set this up and picked the men I wanted for it . None of you came to me , I approached all of you . I know you . I know your work , I know your reputation . I know you as men . Except for this guy . Joe points a finger at Freddy . Freddy shits a brick .
MR. PINK: Why am I Mr . Pink ?
JOE: Cause you 're a faggot . Everybody laughs .
MR. PINK: Why ca n't we pick out our own colors ?
JOE: I tried that once , it do n't work . You get four guys fighting ove who 's gon na be Mr. Black . Since nobody knows anybody else , nobody wants to back down . So forget it , I pick . Be thankful you 're not Mr. Yellow .
MR. BROWN: Yeah , but Mr. Brown ? That 's too close to Mr. Shit . Everybody laughs .
MR. PINK: Yeah , Mr . Pink sounds like Mr. Pussy . Tell you what , let me be Mr. Purple . That sounds good to me , I 'm Mr. Purple .
JOE: You 're not Mr. Purple , somebody from another job 's Mr. Purple . You 're Mr . Pink .
MR. WHITE: Who cares what your name is ? Who cares if you 're Mr . Pink , Mr. Purple , Mr. Pussy , Mr. Piss
MR. PINK: Oh that 's really easy for you to say , you 're Mr. White . You got ta cool-sounding name . So tell me , Mr. White , if you think `` Mr . Pink '' is no big deal , you wan na trade ?
JOE: Nobody 's trading with anybody ! Look , this ai n't a goddamn fuckin city counsel meeting ! Listen up Mr . Pink . We got two ways here , my way or the highway . And you can go down either of 'em . So what 's it gon na be , Mr . Pink ?
MR. PINK: Jesus Christ , Joe . Fuckin forget it . This is beneath me . I 'm Mr . Pink , let 's move on .
HOLDAWAY: Okay , we 're gon na station men across the street from Karina 's Fine Jewelry . But their orders will be not to move in unless the obbery gets out of control . You got ta make sure they do n't have to move in . You 're inside to make sure that everything goes according to Hoyle . We have men set up a block away from the warehouse rendezvous . They got complete visibility of the exterior . So as soon as Joe Cabot shows up , we 'll see it .
FREDDY: What 's your visibility of the interior ?
HOLDAWAY: We ca n't see shit on the inside . And we ca n't risk gettin any closer for fear they 'll spot us .
FREDDY: This is bullshit , Jim . I get all the fuckin danger of having you guys in my back pocket but none of the safety .
HOLDAWAY: What 's the matter , Newendyke ? Jo too tough for ya ? No one lied to you . You always knew we 'd hang ack until Joe Cabot showed up .
FREDDY: Oh this is great . You ai n't giving me no fuckin protection whatsoever . But you are giving me an attitude .
HOLDAWAY: Since when does an undercover cop have protection ? Freddy , you came into this thing with your eyes wide open , so do n't start screamin lind man now . I understand you 're nervous . I wish the warehouse had more visible windows , but it does n't . We have to make do with the cards we 're dealt .
FREDDY: I did n't say I was n't gon na do it . I 'm just remarking on how shitty the situation is !
HOLDAWAY: I do n't mean to be harsh with ya , ut I 've found tough love works est in these situations . We have to get Joe Cabot in the company of the thieves and in the same vicinity as the loot . We do n't care about these othe astards . We 're willing to offe them good deals to testify against Cabot .
FREDDY: Is n't this risk unorthodox ?
HOLDAWAY: What ?
FREDDY: Letting them go ahead with the obbery ?
HOLDAWAY: The whole idea behind this operation is to catch Joe Cabot ed-handed . We bust these hired hands , we ai n't accomplished shit . Letting them go through with the heist is a risk , but Cabot 's jobs are very clean . We got people surrounding the perimeter . We got a guy and a gal on the inside posing as a couple shopping fo ings . We could replace the employees with cops , but we 'd run the risk of tipping 'em off .
FREDDY: That 's out . They know the faces of who works what shift .
HOLDAWAY: These guys are professionals . We 're professionals . It 's a risk , ut I think it 's a calculated isk .
MR. WHITE: Myself and Mr . Pink ?
FREDDY: You two take the manager in the ack and make him give you the diamonds . We 're there for those stones , period . Since no display cases are being fucked with , no alarms should go off . We 're out of there in two minutes , not one second longer . What if the manager wo n't give up the diamonds ?
MR. WHITE: When you 're dealing with a store like this , they 're insured up the ass . They 're not supposed to give you and resistance whatsoever . If you get a custome or an employee who thinks he 's Charles Bronson , take the butt of your gun and smash their nose in . Drops 'em right to the floor . Everyone jumps , he falls down , screaming , blood squirts out his nose . Freaks everybody out . Nobody says fuckin shit afte that . You might get some bitch talk shit to ya . But give her a look , like you 're gon na smash he in the face next . Watch her shut the fuck up . Now if it 's a manager , that 's a different story . The managers know better than to fuck around . So if one 's givin you static , he probably thinks he 's a real cowboy . So what you got ta do is break that son-of-a- itch in two . If you wan na know something and he wo n't tell you , cut off one of his fingers . The little one . Then you tell 'im his thumb 's next . After that he 'll tell ya if he wears ladies underwear . I 'm hungry , let 's get a taco .
MR. BROWN: My eyes ! My eyes ! I 'm blind , I 'm fucking blind !
FREDDY: You 're not blind , there 's just lood in your eyes .
MR. BROWN: Mr. Orange ? You 're Mr. Orange , are n't you ?
MR. WHITE: Is he dead ? Freddy does n't answer , he ca n't .
FREDDY: I 'm sorry .
MR. WHITE: What ? Snap out of it !
FREDDY: I 'm sorry . I ca n't believe she killed me
EDDIE: You know , all things considered , this was pretty successful .
MR. WHITE: I do n't believe you just said that .
EDDIE: No , it was messy as hell , but do you realize how much you got away with ? There 's over two million dollars worth of diamonds here .
MR. PINK: I love this guy .
EDDIE: Hey , what 's done is done . We can all sit around and have a big cry about it or we can deal with the situation at hand .
MR. WHITE: The situation as hand is n't that fuckin satchel . You and Joe have a responsibility to your men .
EDDIE: Hey , it 's the best I could do .
MR. WHITE: The man is fucking dying .
EDDIE: And I 'm telling you , Bonnie 'll take care of him .
MR. WHITE: He needs a doctor , not a fuckin nurse .
EDDIE: Ask me how many doctors I called . You wan na embarrass yourself , ask me how many doctors I called .
MR. WHITE: Obviously not enough .
EDDIE: Fuck you ! You got ta little black ook , then whip is out . If not , listen how it is . I called three doctors and could n't get through to shit . Now , time being a factor , I called Bonnie . Sweet oad , helluva broad , and a egistered nurse . Told her a ullshit story , upside she said ing him to her apartment .
MR. WHITE: If he dies I 'm holding you personally responsible .
EDDIE: Fuck you buddy boy ! Okay , you wan na play that way . I am personally leaving myself vulnerable with this Bonnie situation . I do n't think she 'll call the cops , but I do n't know for sure . But me being too nice- a-fuckin-guy was willin to risk it . But no fuckin more . I 'm callin Bonnie back and tellin her to forget it . You take care of your friend , you know so much about it .
MR. PINK: Goddamnit , will you guys grow up !
EDDIE: I do n't need to grow up , my friend . I am a grown up . I 'm eing responsible , I 'm taking care of business .
MR. WHITE: Cut the shit ! I do n't think you called anybody except some cooze you once fucked , who happens to wear orthopedic shoes . And I do n't think that 's good enough care for a gut-shot man .
EDDIE: Yeah , well I do n't give a flying fuck what you think !
MR. PINK: Look , he 's not sayin this bitch is gon na operate on him . She 's gon na give him better attention than we can until we can get a doctor . Nobody 's forgotten about doctors . Joe 'll get one in a snap . This is something we 're doing in the meantime . I think both of you are actin like a couple of assholes .
EDDIE: Yeah , right . I arrange a nurse , I leave myself wide open , and I 'm an asshole .
MR. WHITE: What happened ?
MR. ORANGE: Blonde went crazy . He slashed the cop 's face , cut off his ear and was gon na burn him alive .
EDDIE: Who cares what he was gon na do to this fuckin pig ?
MR. ORANGE: Look , Eddie , he was pullin a burn . He was gon na kill the cop and me . And when you guys walked through the door , he was gon na blow you to hell and make off with the diamonds .
MR. WHITE: Uhuh , uhuh , what 's I tell ya ? That sick piece of shit was a stone cold psycho .
MR. ORANGE: You could 've asked the cop , if you did n't just kill him . He talked about what he was going to do when he was slicing him up .
EDDIE: I do n't buy it . It does n't make sense .
MR. WHITE: It makes perfect fuckin sense to me . Eddie , you did n't see how he acted during the job , we did . Mr . Pink walks over to the cop 's body .
MR. PINK: He 's right about the ear , it 's hacked off .
EDDIE: Let me say this out loud , just to get it straight in my mind . According to you , Mr. Blonde was gon na kill you . Then when we came ack , kill us , grab the diamonds , and scram . That 's your story ? I 'm correct about that , right ?
MR. ORANGE: Eddie , you can believe me or not elieve me , but it 's the truth . I swear on my mother 's eternal soul that 's what happened .
EDDIE: You 're a fuckin liar . Now why do n't you drop the fuckin fairy tale and tell me what really happened ?
JOE: This man set us up . CAMERA does a 360 around the men .
EDDIE: Daddy , I 'm sorry , I do n't know what 's happening .
JOE: That 's okay , Eddie , I do .
MR. WHITE: What the fuck are you talking about ?
JOE: That piece of shit . Workin with the cops .
MR. WHITE: Joe , I do n't know what you think you know , but you 're wrong .
JOE: Like hell I am .
MR. WHITE: Joe , trust me on this , you 've made a mistake . He 's a good kid . I understand you 're hot , you 're super-fuckin pissed . We 're all eal emotional . But you 're arking up the wrong tree . I know this man , and he would n't do that .
JOE: You do n't know jack shit . I do . This rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue killed .
MR. PINK: Mr. Blue 's dead ?
JOE: Dead as Dillinger .
EDDIE: The motherfucker killed Vic .
MR. WHITE: How do you know all this ?
JOE: He was the only one I was n't a hundred percent on . I should have my fucking head examined for goin forward when I was n't a hundred percent . But he seemed like a good kid , and I was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up .
MR. WHITE: That 's your proof ?
JOE: You do n't need proof when you got instinct . I ignored it before , ut not no more .
EDDIE: Have you lost your fucking mind ? Put your gun down !
MR. WHITE: Joe , you 're making a terrible mistake I ca n't let you make .
EDDIE: Stop pointing your fuckin gun at daddy ! Joe , never taking his eyes off Mr. Orange .
JOE: Do n't worry , Eddie . Me and Larry have been friends a long time , he ai n't gon na shoot . We like each other too much .
MR. WHITE: Joe , if you kill that man , you die next . Repeat , if you kill that man , you die next !
MR. PINK: C'mon , guys , nobody wants this . We 're supposed to me fuckin professionals ! Joe raises his head to Mr. White .
JOE: Larry , I 'm gon na kill him .
MR. WHITE: Goddamn you , Joe , do n't make me do this !
JOE: Larry , I 'm askin you to trust me on this .
MR. WHITE: Do n't ask me that .
JOE: I 'm not askin , I 'm betting . Joe 's eyes go back to Mr. Orange .
EDDIE: Daddy , do n't !
MR. WHITE: Sorry , kid . Looks like we 're gon na do a little time .
MR. ORANGE: I 'm a cop .
RESIDENT EVIL: ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY BY GEORGE A. ROMERO
SCREEN STORY: BY GEORGE A. ROMERO & PETER GRUNWALD
CONSTANTIN FILM: ROMERO-GRUNWALD PRODUCTIONS
FIRST DRAFT: OCTOBER 7 , 1998
CHRIS: Take it , Goliath . It 's yours .
JILL: It 's my apartment .
CHRIS: You 're awake .
JILL: I 've been awake . Since you left .
CHRIS: Sorry .
JILL: What , with my dinner ? I never had a mother . I 'll learn .
CHRIS: I 'll do the cooking .
JILL: There are probably all kinds of things prowling around up there . In the middle of the night .
CHRIS: I 'm sorry . Really . Youhave to e there at dawn . They ride the wind over the ridge .
JILL: Dawn ? You left at one A.M .
CHRIS: I had to go fishing . It 's the fish that bring them down , so I can get a close look at them . I 've tracked a dozen of them , Jill . Twelve of those big bruisers . I can actually recognize them . I 've even given them names , over the years .
JILL: You 've been doing this for years ?
CHRIS: Only in the early Autumn . When they 're ' migrating .
JILL: I'II set the alarm for next . October .
CHRIS: Beauty is n't simple . If it was I 'd be beautiful .
JILL: You are .
CHRIS: No , no , no . I 'm simple . You , on the other handhave all that stuff hiding underneath somewhere . That 's what fascinates me .
JILL: Fascination . Not love ?
CHRIS: I honestly do n't know . I guess I 've been living alone too long . You 're the first , the only woman I 've ever thought of as a real partner .
JILL: I 've always beenafraid of living alone . I 've always had people talking at me knowing they could wind me up and I 'd do whatever they wanted .
CHRIS: I 'm part Mohawk . Indians are neve confused . At least , they never let it show .
RAKE: Get in there , Lucky . Quit horsin ' around . Get in .
RADIO MAN: Top brass , sir !
JILL: Valentine .
DISIMONE: Another practice run , right ?
RUSSO: We been practicin ' six months ! For what ?
JILL: For this . This is the real deal .
WILLIAMS: Honest to God ?
JILL: Based on my experience , Williams , God is n't always honest
DISIMONE: Where we goin ' ?
JILL: In there .
RUSSO: If you had the jing to build a place like this , would you build it in the middle of fuckin ' nowhere ?
WILLIAMS: Paris .
DISIMONE: Manhattan . Upper west .
JILL: Some people prefer a quiet life . Our orders are to secure the area .
DISIMONE: From what ? This area 's been 'secure ' since the French and Indian War !
JILL: This is Valentine , Bravo Team . We , er we might be in trouble , here .
WESKER: Can you get a trace ?
LAGUARDIA: Lost the beacon . It just cut out . Like it wasswallowed by something .
WESKER: I do believe , gentlementhat we 're gon na be earning some combat pay .
BARRY: Damn , if you do n't love a fight .
WESKER: Hey , if I did n't you 'd be a dead man . Call in a nine- nine . I want Raccoon City e-vacked .
BULLHORN: There 's been an accident in the hills nearby . A military aircraft , carrying live weapons , has crashed
SOLDIER: Let 's go , hayseed . You gon na be a good boy ?
MAN: Look here , I 'm the Sheriff of this
SOLDIER: Step aside .
SHERRIFF: That 's a worn-out scenario . If a plane crashed nearby , do n't you think somebody would have heard it go down ? Tell us the truth , guys . What 's this really about ?
SOLDIER: I said , STEP ASIDE !
WESKER: Charlie , David , Edward , proceed to Raccoon City . Assist the e-vack . I 'm going on target with Alpha Team . All forces stand ready to support .
CHRIS: Aw , no L-Lucky .
RAKE: They they come outta the trees , Reddy . Do n't do n't know what they was . Figure maybe some kinda wolves , or somethin '
CHRIS: Do n't try to talk , Rake .
RAKE: I justnever seen 'em comin ' , Reddy . Never evenhad a chance toturn a gun on 'em .
CHRIS: Where are they going ? There 's nothing in there except
RAKE: Y'oughta remember it real good . I do . From when you was a kid .
CHRIS: The the old Arkley place ?
RAKE: I remember them days . I surely do Remember them them old days .
WESKER: You 'll have to rotate or you 'll run out of fuel , but I want one choppe to remain in the air at all times . We might need help in a hurry .
VICKERS: Holy Goh gaah
AIKEN: You ever eat road-kill , Sullivan ?
SULLIVAN: Aiken a guy with a brain you size would be better off dead .
ALKEN: I 'll pass . Shoot Sullivan .
WESKER: 'Valentine ' . Radio Washington . Bravo Team found on site . No survivors .
RODRIGUEZ: Let 's get inside .
BARRY: Even-Steven , boss . You saved my ass in the desert . I saved yours I in Pennsylvania .
WESKER: I do n't believe in being 'Even- Steven ' with anybody . A man saves my assI pay him back . Before this day is over , I 'll pay you back , Barry . Just stick with me , okay ?
BARRY: Look here , man . I 'd follow you into any kind of enemy fire . But these things ai n't firin ' at us . They want us for breakfast ! When are you gon na tell us what the hell is goin ' on here ?
WESKER: When you need to know . Just do your job , soldier . That 's what I 'm doin ' . My job .
AIKEN: Old . They probably do n't have cable .
SULLIVAN: They probably do n't have radio .
RODRIGUEZ: Who 's they ? Who 's place is this ?
WESKER: Guy named Arkley . Bootlegger . Built this old fortress during prohibition . He figured nobody 'd ever find him out here in the back woods . Nobody did . Till he died . Feds have had it eve since . Place has been here for eighty years derelict a safe-house .
BARRY: A safe-house for who ? For what ?
WESKER: There 's a a secret installation . Below . A network of laboratories .
REBECCA: What kind of laboratories ?
WESKER: They did n't issue us gas-masks , so I figure it 's okay to breathe .
RODRIGUEZ: Why send in a strike-force ?
SULLIVAN: Yeah . What are we supposed to do ? Polish the silver ?
WESKER: Three men stay here . Chambers
REBECCA: I 'm not a man .
WESKER: Rodriguez
RODRIGUEZ: I 'm better than a man .
WESKER: Alright . you come with us . Aiken , Sullivan , stick here with Chambers .
AIKEN: Why us ?
SULLIVAN: I dunno why me . You ? I guess the C.O . figures you 're as worthless as a dame , Aiken .
REBECCA: Relax . I get it .
BARRY: That thingtells you where to go ?
WESKER: One man stays here . Ridley . You 're it . Shoot to kill . Just make sure it 's not one of us . The rest of you this way .
RIDLEY: Who who 's there ?
CHRIS: Who are YOU ? What the hell is
RIDLEY: How 'd you get in here ?
CHRIS: Who sealed the door ?
RIDLEY: Who knew there a door ?
SPEYER: Where 'd that come from ?
BARRY: Backwhere we just were .
SPEYER: Shit , man , we 're chasin ' our tails !
BARRY: That 's not what killed him . Blood 's still running . Wounds are fresh . But look at his skin . This guy 's een dead for a couple of days .
RODRIGUEZ: He was dead before he was shot ?
CHRIS: I I 'm one of the good guys , okay I 'm just trying to
REBECCA: SULLIVAN ! AIKEN !
CHRIS: Shit .
AIKEN: Who was that ?
SULLIVAN: Forget him . What are they ?
CHRIS: Somebody did some major remodeling .
REBECCA: We got ta get him out !
AIKEN: What ? Smart fuckin ' plants ?
SULLIVAN: No big deal . Most-plants are smarter than you , Aiken .
SPEYER: Why would anyone shoot a dead man ?
RODRIGUEZ: Lem me guess . Maybe 'cause he was walkin ' around ?
BARRY: Head-shot . We were sprayin ' those dogs outside but think about it . Were any of 'em brought down without a head-shot .
JILL: I lost three me . You killed them , Wesker . You did and I did . Because I did n't know what to expect because you did n't tell me !
WESKER: Tell you what ?
JILL: Anything ! I was n't told anything !
WESKER: Put down the gun .
JILL: Not until
WESKER: RELEASE ! THAT 'S AN ORDER , SOLDIER !
JILL: How ya doin ' , Valentine ? Good to see ya . Glad you 're still alive . Same here , colonel , I 'm
WESKER: How did you get in here ?
JILL: The same way those fuckin ' dogs got out ! Through their pens ! I locked them off .
WESKER: Good thinking .
JILL: Fuck you .
RODRIGUEZ: Maybe they 're in the house . More of them dogs .
REBECCA: Diameter 's too small . It almost looks as if it was done by a
JILL: A human ?
REBECCA: Yes , but what kind of human would do something like this ?
AIKEN: Not a vegetarian , that 's for sure .
SULLIVAN: Aiken , you 'd be better off
REBECCA: There was a guy . Not part of the team . And there was some kind of plant that seemed alive .
RODRIGUEZ: Gim me a fuckin ' break .
AIKEN: No shit . It disappeared right into the wall .
WESKER: I guess it 's time to spill it .
RODRIGUEZ: Speak English , hombre .
WESKER: Marcus has been experimenting with an artificial man-made virus . Codedthe 'T'-virus . Financing came from a private corporation , you may have heard the name Umbrella .
JILL: They 're multi-national . Huge .
WESKER: So huge that they have connections in high places . That 's why we 're here .
BARRY: This virus it jumped , right ?
SPEYER: Shit ! We 're all dead ! We got the ug , and we 're all dead !
WESKER: It 's not airborne . It was spread in the water supply . Lab animals and the researchers themselves passed it on by
JILL: By biting .
BARRY: You catch this virus and what ?
WESKER: You die . But not for long . The chemicalrevives the brain , and
RODRIGUEZ: You stand back up and chew on the first guy you see .
SPEYER: Christ , this is like Night of the Living Dead !
BARRY: Why , in the name of Jesus , would anybody wan na mess with shit that does that shit ?
WESKER: Victory , friend . Civilization has come a long way , but we still have war . Imagine a soldier who ca n't die . That was the concept .
JILL: But the virus jumped .
WESKER: Hopefully if we got all the dogs we 've contained it .
JILL: Hopefully ? Jesus why did n't you tell us ?
WESKER: By telling you NOW , I 've put you lives in jeopardy . Nobody has this information . Except a few high-and- mightys . Me . And now , you .
REBECCA: I do n't know , this all sounds pretty shaky to me
RODRIGUEZ: Guess that proves it . A head-shot knocks 'em down .
REBECCA: Th-that man.. .was dead . I I 'm a doctor ! I should know ! That man was dead !
VICKERS: I hope you have a lot of these .
CHRIS: Hey .
AIKEN: Where the fuck is a shark 's brain ?
SULLIVAN: In it 's head ! I swear , Aiken , you would be better off dead .
WESKER: Nice . Very NICE , Valentine ! You set off a containment breach !
JILL: It must have been the water . God , the water ! ( She turns to Chris } Did you swallow any ?
SPEYER: I did .
SULLIVAN: A bunch of us did , man .
WESKER: Separate systems . Salt water . No germs . But.. .it breached !
RODRIGUEZ: Sowe live here now .
WESKER: There are override exits but I ca n't find them without THIS !
CHRIS: That was a smart move .
WESKER: And you are ?
CHRIS: Nobody . Just aa local guy
WESKER: Valentinewho is this asshole ?
JILL: His name is Chris Redfield . He was part of my cover , sir .
CHRIS: Cover ?
JILL: This is not the time to mouth off , Chris ! You 're in deep shit here !
CHRIS: Why did n't you let me in on this ?
JILL: Why did you have to come after me ? How did you get in here , anyway ?
CHRIS: I used to play here , when this was a fucking laundry room ! And what makes you think I came after YOU ?
BARRY: Whoa ! Look here .
WESKER: Itit once was .
BARRY: A map . Same as on your gizmo . Exits markedblue and green .
WESKER: The greens are the overrides . Can you print this out ?
VICKERS: I can try .
WESKER: We have to get down to level 'D ' .
BARRY: Hold on . Marcus is dead . If this mission was about bringin ' him out , we 're outta here , right ?
WESKER: I wish we were , but no . We have a potential outbreak here . We might e the only ones who can stop it .
SPEYER: Stop it ? How ?
WESKER: There 's an antidote .
JILL: Not simple .
CHRIS: Not complicated , either . We only have to decide what 's right and what 's wrong .
JILL: I forgot . You 're neve confused . Sowhat 's right , Mohawk ? And what 's wrong ?
VICKERS: Shit . There are no green exits on this level . Why why would that be ?
CHRIS: They do n't want anybody up here to go snoopin ' upstairs or down .
WESKER: Pretty good guess . You must have een in the military , son .
CHRIS: Native American . Exempted .
VICKERS: Fuck ! There there 's no way out !
CHRIS: Yes there is .
WESKER: Not a bad idea . See if you can call up service charts , schematics .
VICKERS: Got it . Ceiling grids , ladders . The whole infrastructure .
WESKER: Print it . Print all of it .
REBECCA: What 's that from ?
VICKERS: Isnagged it . On the desk . When we were scrambling .
REBECCA: Lem me look at it .
VICKERS: No . It 's just a scratch !
CHRIS: There 's a part of an old laundry chute . It might not show on there . It runs up to the kitchen .
WESKER: I 'm not going up . I 'm going down .
JILL: No objections . We 'll back you up .
CHRIS: You said people wind you up and you do whateve they want you to do .
WESKER: Stay out of this , son . You 're the only one who does n't have a choice in this . There 's no place to lock you up . I ca n't let you go , you 're a security risk . I could shoot you . Legally . But your lady-friend would probably get all over my ass . So I 'm afraid you 're comin ' with us whether you like it or not . He 's your responsibility , Valentine . See that he does n't make trouble .
CHRIS: You up to the challenge ?
JILL: Try me .
CHRIS: I already have .
JILL: That you were still fascinated .
CHRIS: Stop . Stop !
JILL: II want to . I want nothing more . But I ca n't . When I 'm in this uniform , I 'm more than just me . Try to understandthere 's no `` I '' in Team , Chris .
CHRIS: There 's no `` I '' in DEAD , either .
JILL: You go . You 're not part of this .
CHRIS: I 'm part of it as . long as you are .
BARRY: I mean this It 's very uncomfortable .
CHRIS: Eighteen years ?
BARRY: Yep . Two away from the big re-ti .
JILL: Desk job , right ? Nobody lasts that long if they 've seen action .
BARRY: I 've seen action in Granada . And Desert Storm . Would have lost it all there if my buddy did n't bring in a team , against orders , to pull my ass out . Buddy named Wesker .
CHRIS: You 've been with this asshole since ?
BARRY: Since before that . We were kids together . Macon , Georgia . He 's only an asshole some of the time
VICKERS: Who knows what we 'll find down there ?
AIKEN: Think positive . The farther down we go , the worse it 's gon na get . So until we hit bottom , we 're in good shape relatively speaking .
SPEYER: What the fuck ?
VICKERS: Whatever it is.. .it ca n't get us . We 're in the ceiling !
AIKEN: Maybe it 's like really tall .
SULLIVAN: Aiken
WESKER: Main-frame . Might have some data we could use . Fox , Marini , Vickers . Down .
CHRIS: The man has balls , I 'll say that .
WESKER: Hustle it , Vickers . You 're the guy we need . To cut into the network .
VICKERS: AAAAH ! Shit .
WESKER: Hold tight . It does n't sound like it 's on this level .
VICKERS: Shit . I 'm locked out . Any clues for a password ?
WESKER: Try Umbrella .
VICKERS: Nothing . Wait . I 'm into No . No data . Just some kind of video feed . Time-coded . Yesterday . It 's a play-back . Holy shit !
FOX: Maybe the ceiling 's not such a safe place , after all .
WESKER: Scram ! SCRAM !
BARRY: Haul ass , boss !
WESKER: That'stwo I owe ya .
BARRY: One . We were all 'Even-Steven ' .
WESKER: Two . Remember ? 'Even-Steven ' is not in my vocabulary .
CHRIS: Those things could get up here . We ca n't let that happen . This is our way out
JILL: Any time . How do we get back UP ?
CHRIS: Shit , if you did n't have a plan , you should n't have jumped down here .
JILL: We have a real problem here , Chris .
CHRIS: How big is this place ? How many people were down here ? How
JILL: HOW DO WE GET UP ?
CHRIS: Big . Heavy .
JILL: It got you !
BARRY: No skin broken . I 'm alright .
CHRIS: We owe you a pair of pants .
WESKER: Stand down . Five minutes .
SPEYER: I 'm through , Wesker .
MARINI: Me too , man . This ai n't nothin ' I signed on for .
WESKER: You want to wait here , fine .
MARINI: Wait here ? No . We 're gettin ' out !
WESKER: You ca n't . Not without this .
SPEYER: Fuck you ! And your fancy doors and your green key ! The choppers have ockets . They can blow out a wall if they have to . I 'm callin ' 'em in .
WESKER: You wan na see a wall blow , I 'll low all of 'em for ya .
CHRIS: Youlunatic ! That damn thing can slip out of your ear by accident !
WESKER: That 's right . It 's your joball of your jobsto see that it does n't . And to see that my heart does n't skip any beats .
SULLIVAN: Sumbitch might do it , Speyer .
WESKER: I'II be obliged to do it ! If I do n't get that antidote , I 'll have to burn this place out ! Valentine . The radio .
CHRIS: What are you , this guy 's flunky ? He just threatened to blow us all up , for Christ 's sake !
JILL: That 's what I 'm trying to prevent !
LAGUARDIA: How many digits did you receive ?
RADIO MAN: Six . The beginning of an air- support code , but it just went dead on me .
LAGUARDIA: Call S.T.A.R.S . in Washington . I want
RADIO MAN: Hold it
LAGUARDIA: Call Washington anyway . I want the authority to take action if necessary .
RADIO MAN: No independent action .
LAGUARDIA: Damn . I feel so fuckin ' helpless !
WESKER: You guys were hand-picked . A Special Unit . Most of you have been sitting on your asses , drawing pay checks fo more than two years . Well it 's time to repay those Government loans .
SPEYER: Bull shit . I 'm not
WESKER: Pitch your empties . Put all you loaded clips on that crate there . I want a count . Then I want the ounds divvied up evenly .
AIKEN: Lingerie . Notions .
WESKER: GOD DAMMIT , NO MORE JOKES ! We have men dead upstairs ! This hell-hole is full of people who died because of this stinkin ' BUG !
JILL: Forty two .
SPEYER: That 's all we have ?
WESKER: We were n't expecting a war , Speyer . I 'll take three . Three to your boyfriend
CHRIS: Do n't need 'em . Got my own loads .
WESKER: Good . Then we all get four clips .
SPEYER: They must have weapons down here , somewhere . A powder magazine .
WESKER: No more side trips . It was a mistake to go into that lab upstairs . My mistake . And I 'm not makin ' anothe one . From now on it 's straight ahead . In and out .
CHRIS: Jillthis guy is a Loony-Toon .
JILL: He 's just trying to get the jo done . Doing what he has to do .
CHRIS: Yeah , wellI hope you 'll say the same about me when I do what I have to do .
WESKER: It 's not clear which way to go .
RODRIGUEZ: Want me to flip a coin ?
SULLIVAN: What 's that sound like to you ?
CHRIS: This is the heart of the whole place . They 've got to have it protected somehow .
SULLIVAN: There 's no way outta this mousetrap !
RODRIGUEZ: So we live here now ?
SPEYER: We got ta run for it .
AIKEN: Bad idea , Speyer .
CHRIS: Down . Through these .
VICKERS: Where do they go ?
SULLIVAN: Does it matter ?
JILL: On three
CHRIS: One two
JILL: Godand it does n't even stop them
CHRIS: It 's not meant to stop them . It 's meant to stopsomething else .
SPEYER: We damn near got turned into Rice Krispies by that gizmo of yours . If you do n't want me to nail that fuckin ' thing into your ear , you deactivate it . Right now .
WESKER: I ca n't . They.. .fixed it so you ca n't chicken out . The system can only be turned off at the main panel .
BARRY: Where the hell is that ?
WESKER: Where the explosives are . Down farther than we need to go . We only have to make it down one more level . If when we make it back up to the choppers we can fly out of the detonator 's signal range .
CHRIS: I 'm not willing to rely on that . I live here , this is my town !
WESKER: The town 's been evacuated . Just just in case .
CHRIS: That explains the lie . About the plane crash . An airplane down with weapons on board would nicely explain a big explosion , would n't it ? You figured all along you might have to blow this place !
WESKER: I do n't want to do it . I I hope I do n't have to .
CHRIS: II ca n't let this happen . I 've got to find that bomb .
JILL: I 'll help . Once Wesker gets what he wants , my obligation is over .
CHRIS: No . I want you out . With the est of them . Wesker wo n't push the button until you 're clear .
JILL: He does n't want to push the button .
CHRIS: He has to . Do n't you see ? He ca n't leave these labs here . And , Jesus walking corpses ! He 's got ta get rid of the evidence .
JILL: Chris , no !
CHRIS: I 've got to try and stop this .
RODRIGUEZ: Shit . One thing after another .
WESKER: Sit tight . Ride it out .
JILL: CHRIS !
WESKER: This way .
JILL: No . That way . Chris and the others
WESKER: If they 're dead , they 're dead . If they 're alive , they 'll still be alive in twenty minutes . When we get back .
JILL: Maybe not . And how do we know it 's only going to be twenty minutes ? How do we know we 'll be able to come ack this way ?
WESKER: We do n't . But we 'll do our damndest to try . This is it , guys . The home stretch . Let 's go .
REBECCA: Th-this thing was no accident . It was cultivated !
CHRIS: And it did n't rip out the ceiling for the fun of it . Stay alert .
AIKEN: My mother made me eat vegetables . I know 'em all . This ai n't one of 'em .
SULLIVAN: Aiken
AIKEN: Sullivan ! JESUS , SULLIVAN !
CHRIS: Get out of the away !
AIKEN: They.. .they killed Sullivan . The astards whoever did this shit they KILLED SULLIVAN !
CHRIS: Hold this .
AIKEN: K-kill me . S-Sullvan saidI 'd e.. .better off dead . Thatai n't never been truer than now . Kill me !
HOLDEN: Keep us appraised .
WESKER: Where are the others ?
JILL: Right behind me . Were you talking to someone ?
WESKER: To Washington . To my superiors . They 're your superiors too , Valentine . Do n't forget that .
BARRY: Nothin ' . man . No doors . Nothin ' . We hit a dead end .
SPEYER: Us too . Cement wall .
VICKERS: We 're never gon na get to that lab .
REBECCA: I ca n't take this any more .
CHRIS: We take what comes . That 's the secret of our genius .
REBECCA: Not very old at all . Not nearly old enough toto
CHRIS: None of us is old enough for that .
REBECCA: Jill told me you were nice .
CHRIS: She did ? She never told me .
BARRY: Head shots . Ai n't doin ' nothin ' !
WESKER: That was the idea .
BARRY: What idea ?
WESKER: To win . The idea was to win .
JILL: Wing it !
CHRIS: You knowthat just might be the ticket . Wing the fuckers .
SPEYER: Run ! We slowed 'em down . Run !
BARRY: Where ? As far as we 'll get , eithe way , is a cement wall .
ADA: You lost a man . If I had only een faster . I was unfamilia with the mechanism .
RODRIGUEZ: Has n't happened to me , yet .
ADA: My colleagues . Benjamin . Toshiro . As far as we know , we are theonly ones.. .left alive . We worked on `` C '' level . One of the biologists saved us . Brought us down here . He knew that he did n't have long to live . He started the mechanism out there , in the corridor.. .and he let it take him .
RODRIGUEZ: You did fine , lady . We 're obliged .
ADA: As are we . We believed we would die here . Believedthe omb would destroy us .
JILL: You knew.. .about the bomb ?
ADA: The end for a place like this , when it fails must be a bomb , yes ?
CHRIS: It already came . ma'am . We ought it . The colonel , here he 's wearing it .
ADA: Is it true ? Are you here to rescue ? Or destroy ?
WESKER: Both . If I have to pick only one I 'll pick destroy .
ADA: You 're not S.T.A.R.S . You 're Umbrella .
WESKER: Once again . Both . Two salaries . Three if you count combat pay .
ADA: The man I loved , John Marcus developed the organism that caused all this . He he did it fo humanitarian purposes . It was taken away from himfor in-human purposesby men like you !
WESKER: No , ma'am . Men like me are just errand boys . Sent in to do the wet-work . All of the glory . None of the benefits .
ADA: After what you 've seen down here , do you think any of it could be turned into benefit ?
WESKER: Yes . I think it could be turned into five or ten million dollars . How do we get into `` D '' lab ?
ADA: Death lab . John was killednever even knowing it existed . They kept him isolated , upstairs , while a separate team was down herecorrupting his research . Using it to build B.O.W.s .
CHRIS: B.O.W.s ?
ADA: Bio-organic weapons .
REBECCA: The sharks . The plant .
ADA: Early experiments .
CHRIS: The snake .
ADA: A failure . Its behavior remained eptilian . All they could ever get it to do was grow in size .
RODRIGUEZ: Those dogs . They were weapons .
ADA: No . They simply became infected . As did everyone else . Janitors . The cook . Electricians . Guards . People who believed they were serving their flag . Scientists . Great minds turned into mindless.. .ghouls !
CHRIS: Before the outbreak , the experiments went further , did n't they ? Those ceiling-crawlers out there.. .
ADA: The product of human DNA spliced with the DNA of vicious carnivores animals , even insects . Plated with armor , beneath newly cultivated skin . Then injected with poison , so thei iological components would die .
JILL: Die .
ADA: The `` T '' -virus reactivates them in a matter of minutes , but in battle , lost minutes are inconvenient . So , the B.O.W.s had to die and be allowed to revive before they could be used to full advantage . They were murdered y their own people so they could never be murdered again by the enemy .
CHRIS: Were any more of theseweapons developed ?
WESKER: HOW DO WE GET INTO `` D '' LAB ?
ADA: You do n't .
WESKER: How fortunate that I am .
ADA: Haveyou been leaving doors open ?
JILL: Yes .
ADA: This place is going to be overrun by
REBECCA: Brad 's in really bad shape .
VICKERS: Oneof the sharks . Its teeth . I Justbrushed up against its teethafter it was dead .
ADA: Shoot him . Somebody , shoot him !
JILL: No ! We 're so close . The antidote .
BARRY: What 's got into you man ? This this is n't like you .
WESKER: Oh , yes , this is exactly like me .
RODRIGUEZ: You know how to use that thing , chica ?
ADA: Of course I do . I 'm a scientist .
REBECCA: No ! You ca n't ! Not while there 's still a chance to save him !
WESKER: It 's called the Tyrant . Nobody knows it exists . Except us and Holden .
BARRY: Holden ?
WESKER: Umbrella 's man in D.C. We need him . He signs the checks . We 've got it , Barry ! Our fortune !
BARRY: You 're not gon na try to get this ig mother outta here ?
WESKER: Do n't have to . All we need is the data . Then.. .these things can be cranked out on an assembly line !
BARRY: What about the antidote ?
WESKER: Antidote ? There is no antidote . That was just happy horse shit , to keep the team going .
BARRY: You 're gon na give this to Umbrella ?
WESKER: No . I 'm gon na sell it to them . Then I 'm gon na open a Swiss bank account ight next to yours .
RODRIGUEZ: Do we get a piece of that action ?
WESKER: All of you do . Anyone who comes out of this alive gets a taste .
ADA: You disgrace yourself !
TOSHIRO: II want to live .
WESKER: Smart . Anyone else ? Valentine ?
CHRIS: And I was gon na try to disarm the omb . This place should be destroyed ! It needs to be destroyed !
WESKER: Gotcha , son . It 's only because of Valentine , here , that I did n't squeeze the trigger .
CHRIS: If she 's on your side she does n't mean shit to me . And I do n't mean shit to her .
JILL: Chris , please . There 's only one way to go , here .
WESKER: That 's right . My way !
JILL: Yes , sir . Your way !
BARRY: You shoot . I shoot , boss .
JILL: We believed in you . I believed in you . Boy , was I a sucker .
ADA: Get out ! Now ! Or you never will !
RODRIGUEZ: So we 'll live here ! No . The landlord looks like a sonuvabitch .
ADA: I TOLD YOU TO SHOOT HIM !
JILL: Everybody ! OUT !
CHRIS: Thirteen minutes .
BARRY: Go .
JILL: LOOK OUT !
WESKER: Get me outta here , Redfield . Or so help me God , you 're a dead man .
CHRIS: Get going .
JILL: Not without
CHRIS: MOVE !
WESKER: COME BACK ! RODRIGUEZ ! VALENTINE ! THAT 'S AN ORDER !
CHRIS: Orders do n't mean shit any more , Wesker . Especially when they come from sell-out bastards like you .
WESKER: B-buddy . You got ta get us out .
BARRY: Not sure I know how , boss . Do you ? Is there some other'need-to-know ' secret for shutting down the Big Bopper , here ?
WESKER: No . It.. it ca n't be shut down .
BARRY: The ultimate warrior . The ultimate soldier . We 'll see . How it does against a couple of hard-ass caree guys , like you and me .
ADA: The corridor outside can be moved .
JILL: a blue key . I hope .
ADA: No . Pot blue or green . Red .
CHRIS: Red overrides green .
ADA: Yes .
CHRIS: So you could have unlocked `` D '' lab .
ADA: I was hoping it would never be un- locked again . Go . I will see that this.. . is destroyed .
CHRIS: It 's destroyed . It 's worthless But you 're not .
ADA: I helped develop it !
CHRIS: Unwittingly . They lied to you . They lied to Marcus . They made you believe you were doing a good thing when it was n't good at all . It was evil !
ADA: Stand up ? Against powers that have uled the world since before we were orn ? We will only beeliminated . Or locked away someplace else . I 'd ather die here . Knowing that the virus has died with me .
JILL: What if it 's already spread ? You 're the only onewho knew anything about it .
ADA: But , I know so little .
CHRIS: More than anyone else . You have a responsibility .
JILL: To a higher command . The highest .
BARRY: That 's one helluva big pump .
WESKER: An implant .
BARRY: From what ? A fuckin ' elephant ?
WESKER: Rhinoceros .
BARRY: Shit . I figured you knew more than you were telling .
WESKER: I told you , we do n't . W-we ca n't . It 's unstoppable !
ADA: I do n't know if I can face this .
CHRIS: Just get us upstairs . I 'll take care of it from there .
ADA: Alright . Come .
JILL: I do n't know if it 's gon na happen .
RODRIGUEZ: Come on . I been waitin ' all day for somthin . like this .
CHRIS: You 're up .
RODRIGUEZ: I 'm havin ' too much fun . You got a lady . I just got me . Anyway I ai n't gon na die in this rat hole . I 'll make it . Get outta here .
ADA: Level `` C '' . Have your weapons ready .
RODRIGUEZ: Whoop-de-doo .
BARRY: Get under a desk , man . I 'm gon na feed this thing a pineapple .
WESKER: NO ! It might damage the system ! I 've got to get this data !
BARRY: Forget it . Bullets do n't work !
WESKER: They seem to work just fine .
ADA: Level `` B '' .
REBECCA: Do n't see anything .
ADA: Good .
REBECCA: Bats ! There are bats in here !
ADA: No . They 're crows ! Infected ! Do n't let them bite you !
RODRIGUEZ: Rats . FLYING RATS !
CHRIS: You alright ?
RODRIGUEZ: Yeah . I 'm cool . I 'm cool .
REBECCA: I thought it was n't supposed to stop .
ADA: Climb out . OUT !
CHRIS: ROSIE ! ?
RODRIGUEZ: I 'M ALRIGHT !
CHRIS: Climb , Rosie !
ROSIE: No . I 'm finished . I live here now .
CHRIS: ROSIE , NOOOOO !
ROSIE: EAT ME , YOU PILE OF SHIT !
ADA: Come .
CHRIS: ROSIE
ADA: COME ! You convinced me that there werelarger matters . We 're at the top . You said you 'd get us out .
CHRIS: Th-this way .
REBECCA: Hell of a shit-house .
JILL: The guy was a bootlegger with a sense of humor .
CHRIS: I hope they have n't disabled this .
LAGUARDIA: I 'm goin ' in .
RADIO MAN: You do n't have authority .
LAGUARDIA: Fuck authority .
CHRIS: Watch it . WATCH IIIIT !
RADIO: What in God 's name is that thing !
LAGUARDIA: Somethin ' we were n't supposed to see . Drop the ladder . And drop the Stinger .
CHRIS: GET UP !
RADIO MAN: Catch this !
JILL: Toss it to me !
CHRIS: No . Circle around .
LAGUARDIA: Are there more survivors ?
CHRIS: No . Justcircle , okay ? I want totake a last look .
JILL: It 's your home .
CHRIS: I hoped it would be our home .
JILL: I guess we 're gon na be moving .
CHRIS: Full throttle . Out of here , man !
FITZGERALD: Likely got a splinter . Ca n't figure what to do without Mama here to pull it out for him . Boone chuckles spits in Henry 's direction .
BOONE: Need a doc , Captain ?
HENRY: Gather more wood .
FITZGERALD: Shame my Pap was a broken down drunk . Else he could 've bought me a Captain 's job too .
HENRY: Glass and the others will be back with some game , Fitzgerald . Just make sure you have the fires ready .
FITZGERALD: My supper 's in the hands of a hermit nigger , a kid and a dummy . Hell , my belly feels full already .
BRIDGER: But bigger than we figured . Gon na e a load to haul back to camp .
PIG: Have to split it up I reckon .
GLASS: Yep . Bridger 'll take the tail , and Pig you haul the rest .
BRIDGER: Another one close by ?
PIG: Hugh ?
BOONE: No rule says I 'm the only one that 's got ta gather this shit .
TRAPPER: ` REE !
GLASS: GET TO THE BOAT !
TO HENRY: THE BOAT , CAPTAIN !
TRAPPER: WAIT ! 6 .
BRIDGER: Thank you .
FITZGERALD: What 's the plan , Captain ? Henry 's still lost in those screams .
ANDERSON: We 're just floatin ' farther from Fort Union . Henry 's eyes instinctively look to Glass .
GLASS: The Missouri 's no good . Not if the ` Ree 's running it .
FITZGERALD: So we just float the hell down to Mexico or wherever else this rive takes us ?
GLASS: We get ourselves safe outta range , then track another course up .
FITZGERALD: Add weeks to the trip .
BRIDGER: Better that than endin ' up scalped on the side of the river .
FITZGERALD: Shut up , kid , you do n't get no say in this .
TRAPPER: Thirteen before long .
HENRY: I understand our situation , Mr. Fitzgerald . We do like Glass said put some distance between us and the Arikara , then chart a course to Fort Union .
PIG: Reckon it 's better ` an lettin ' the ` Ree find him take his ears slice what 's left all to shit .
HENRY: So we hike west to the Grand , then follow it up to Fort Union .
FITZGERALD: On foot ? You got any idea how long that 's gon na take ? It 'll be winte efore we get there .
ANDERSON: Unless we come across a post trade for some horses .
GLASS: No posts that far out .
FITZGERALD: So if we do this , we do every step with our own feet .
HENRY: We make camp here for the night , then load supplies and head out fo the Grand at first light .
BEAT: And gather extra blankets ` cause there wo n't be any fires .
BRIDGER: Thank you for what you done back there .
GLASS: You 'd have done the same for me . Bridger nods he hopes so .
FITZGERALD: You treat that Anstadt sweeter than any woman , Glass .
STUBBY BILL: Never seen a woman that could stop a ` Ree from three hundred feet .
ANDERSON: I knew a particular big-breasted edhead in Boston that might come close .
FITZGERALD: Bring it over here for me to have a look .
BRIDGER: You seen it before .
FITZGERALD: What 'd you say , kid ?
BRIDGER: I said you shoulda already got a look when he saved you with it earlier .
FITZGERALD: You 're lucky you ai n't a man yet . Else that mighta nicked somethin ' .
GLASS: Middle of workin ' on it .
FITZGERALD: Well you can stop workin ' on it , and let me have a look like I said .
GLASS: Best I can tell , my place is right where I want it on the smart end of my rifle .
FITZGERALD: I 'd be careful if I was you , boy .
HENRY: That 's enough , Fitzgerald . Go sober up and get to sleep .
MORE: 12 . HENRY If you 're passed out when we break camp tomorrow , I leave you here .
FITZGERALD: That 's the trouble with this part of the world . No mirrors . Niggers forget what color they are .
HENRY: Ca n't sleep either ?
GLASS: Never like closin ' my eyes when I 'm not sure who 'll be standin ' over me when I open ` em .
HENRY: I keep thinking about Boone and the others how maybe I should 've had us make camp further up river .
GLASS: The tracks I saw those ` Ree had een tailin ' us for a while . They 'd have gone as far north as it took .
BEAT: You 're a good man , Captain . Soon as you realize that , these others will too .
HENRY: Your years trappin ' and guidin ' out here have you had much experience with the Arikara ?
GLASS: Enough to try and stay outta thei way .
HENRY: But you know this country well enough to get us past them up to Fort Union ?
GLASS: I been here a long while . Whethe that gets us to Union or not
HENRY: What Fitzgerald said earlier he does n't speak for the rest .
GLASS: He was n't wrong . Truth is that 's what I prefer about this country it 's got no eye for the color of a man 's skin .
HENRY: Try to get some sleep , Hugh .
STUBBY BILL: Should n't we have hit the Grand by now ?
HENRY: We 'll reach it soon enough . Glass said to keep this course .
FITZGERALD: Glass said . Too bad I do n't see him .
PIG: That 's on account he 's up ahead makin ' sure it 's clear , and you get to keep your ears . Fitzgerald throws Pig an angry glance .
FITZGERALD: Or he 's run off and left us .
BRIDGER: He would n't do that . Fitzgerald GRUNTS does n't believe that .
FITZGERALD: My bet , that nigger 's used to unnin ' .
HENRY: UP AHEAD !
BRIDGER: Christ Almighty . Henry , Pig , and the others reach the edge .
HENRY: Glass !
PIG: HUGH !
BRIDGER: He 's down here !
MURPHY: Oh , Jesus .
STUBBY BILL: He 's tore to pieces . The men stare down at Glass ' corpse .
ANDERSON: Least he took that Grizz down with him .
FITZGERALD: Wished he'da done it without firing his rifle . If there was n't no ` Ree around before , there will be now .
HENRY: THAT 'S ENOUGH !
BRIDGER: Holy Christ , he 's alive .
HENRY: Get me some water .
BRIDGER: Oh , Jesus Jesus .
HENRY: It 's okay , Hugh . You 're going to be fine . Henry spins his head away from Glass .
WHISPERS: I need some rags before he bleeds out . Pig whips a shirt from his bag shreds it .
PIG: What about me , Cap ?
HENRY: Get down here and help me tie off these wounds best we can .
PIG: It wo n't stop bleedin ' .
HENRY: Shut up , Pig .
TO GLASS: We 're fixing you up , Hugh .
BRIDGER: It 's gon na be fine , Mr. Glass .
HENRY: Roll him over easy .
BRIDGER: What about the rest of him ?
HENRY: He 's losing more blood back here . And I do n't know what to do with that yet .
ANDERSON: They 're torturin ' the poor bastard .
FITZGERALD: And riskin ' gettin ' us killed in the process . Proper thing would be to end it for him quick .
ANDERSON: ` Less he could pull through .
FITZGERALD: You seen what that grizz did to him . Shit , Glass 'll be dead inside a hour . We all will be if he keeps screamin ' like that .
BRIDGER: What now ?
HENRY: We wait . Does he have any kin you know of ?
PIG: He keeps to hisself . Neve mentioned none .
HENRY: Go get the others . Tell ` em we 're making camp here for the night . Pig starts hustling away .
BRIDGER: It ai n't for me .
PIG: I can feel some air outta his mouth . Maybe Captain sealed up his throat proper , huh ? Whatta you figure his odds are , Jim ? Bridger stares down at what 's left of Glass .
BRIDGER: Long .
MURPHY: What that bear did to him I did n't expect he 'd last this long .
ANDERSON: I seen a fella go a week once afte a lion jumped him . Fever finally finished him off .
STUBBY BILL: Whatta we do , Cap ? A long beat , then
HENRY: We give him his chance . Henry turns and walks away .
FITZGERALD: You ai n't doin ' him or us no favors , Captain , lettin ' him suffe that way .
ANDERSON: Fever 's hit . Wo n't be long now .
FITZGERALD: I seen a bad one drag on days .
BRIDGER: He 's burnin ' , Cap . Water turns to oil as soon as it touches him . Henry considers this , then
HENRY: Pig , take Anderson and scout ahead . Grand should be just west of here . Find us the best route .
FITZGERALD: Tryin ' to buy Glass time do n't make sense for the rest of us , Captain .
HENRY: Get movin ' .
WHISPERS: You two can start digging a grave . Fitzgerald tosses the stick away .
FITZGERALD: Least it 's a step in the right direction .
PIG: Found it , Cap . Right where Glass had us headed .
ANDERSON: No more than a mile or so out .
HENRY: We could build a litter . Haul him with us .
ANDERSON: It 's rocky and steep goin ' . Henry looks to Pig for an honest answer .
PIG: Marshy and thick on the other side . We could try it , but Pig shakes his head .
FITZGERALD: I signed on as a trapper , not a goddamn mule .
BRIDGER: Shape he 's in I do n't see no way he 'd make bein ' drug .
HENRY: Lay that rag over his eyes , Mr. Bridger .
BRIDGER: But , Captain .
HENRY: Do it .
BRIDGER: I 'll stay with him money or not .
PIG: Same here .
HENRY: I ca n't let you stay back , Pig . Without Glass , I 'll need you to scout .
FITZGERALD: Two wo n't stand much chance against a party of ` Ree , Captain , and seventy dollars wo n't buy me a new setta ears .
HENRY: A hundred then . Still nothing from the others .
BRIDGER: They can have my share too . I owe Glass that at least .
FITZGERALD: That case I 'll hang back with the kid . I do n't mind fallin ' a day o so behind for two hundred .
HENRY: But Glass is to be cared for until . Understood ?
FITZGERALD: I 'll let the young doctor do his job .
HENRY: The rest gather your gear .
PIG: I 'll see ya at Fort Union , Hugh .
HENRY: ( to Fitzgerald and
BRIDGER: As long as necessary .
FITZGERALD: I 'll take first watch .
BRIDGER: Not with his rifle .
FITZGERALD: Trust me , kid , he ai n't gon na be needin ' it tonight . Fitzgerald disappears into the trees .
LEANS CLOSER: But that do n't mean I ca n't be coaxed into changin ' my mind .
PANICKED WHISPER: Bridger ! Get your ass up !
BRIDGER: What ?
FITZGERALD: Keep quiet . I was down at the creek there 's twenty of ` em at least , comin ' this way .
BRIDGER: Oh , shit . Whatta we do ?
FITZGERALD: We run . Now .
BRIDGER: What about Glass ?
FITZGERALD: He 's on his own , same as us .
BRIDGER: I ca n't leave him .
FITZGERALD: Then I 'm talkin ' to a dead man .
BRIDGER: What 're you doin ' ? He needs that .
FITZGERALD: He could n't hold it if you tarred it to his hands .
BRIDGER: It 's his goddamn rifle ! That 's all he 's got !
FITZGERALD: And more than he 'll need . Fitzgerald scoops up Glass ' knife as well .
BRIDGER: We ca n't leave him with nothin ' .
FITZGERALD: We ran the better part of six hours . Had to gain some ground on Henry and them others .
BRIDGER: Best douse that smoke before them ` Ree spot it .
FITZGERALD: We put enough distance between us and them . And it 's too damn cold to go without one .
BRIDGER: All we know , they hoofed it through the night same as us .
FITZGERALD: A dozen ` Ree ca n't make the time us two did .
BRIDGER: It was twenty earlier .
FITZGERALD: What ?
BRIDGER: When you woke me you said you 'd spotted twenty ` Ree .
FITZGERALD: A dozen twenty . I was n't in a mood to count feathers . Hell , one ` Ree woulda been too many .
BRIDGER: What was you even doin ' down at the creak in the middle of the night ?
BEAT: I 'd already brought plenty a water .
FITZGERALD: Do n't start questionin ' me on accounta you feelin ' guilty ` bout leavin ' your nigger buddy behind .
FITZGERALD: What 're you askin ' ? Why it was you turned your back on Glass ? Why you let him die to save your own sorry skin ?
BEAT: ` Cause you was scared shitless , that 's why .
BRIDGER: The ` Ree did you see ` em ?
FITZGERALD: Not a one .
BRIDGER: I 'm goin ' back for him .
FITZGERALD: Far as we ran all night , you could n't find Glass with dogs and a map . And I do n't believe you eally want to . ` Cause afte leavin ' him to die the first time , I doubt he 'd be too happy to see you now .
SPOTTED HORSE: Griz-lee .
FITZGERALD: ` Bout goddamn time .
BRIDGER: We should go see Captain Henry .
FITZGERALD: Far as we hiked we got time fo a drink on the company 's tab .
PIG: ( off Fitzgerald , to
BRIDGER: Had to be a helluva long walk fo you . Bridger nods Pig has no idea .
FITZGERALD: Maybe we best go see Henry , kid . I just got a itch to spend the first of my two-hundred . The other men laugh . Not Bridger .
HENRY: And the grave ?
FITZGERALD: We had those extra days so we went deeper covered it in rocks . To keep the scavengers off him .
HENRY: Any sign of hostiles ?
FITZGERALD: Not a one .
HENRY: Glad to hear you pulled you weight , Mr. Bridger . I knew you would .
FITZGERALD: More than his share , Captain .
HENRY: Speaking of shares .
FITZGERALD: Fortunate for me , it did not .
HENRY: Well thank you both for you courage and honor . You have done yourselves proud .
FITZGERALD: He 's beat hisself up most of the trip wishin ' he'da done more .
HENRY: We all saw the shape Glass was in . There was no more to be done .
FITZGERALD: That 's what I been tellin ' him .
GLASS: Thank you .
BOYS: Tatanka Wicasa . over and over . Glass stares back , unsure . Then
GLASS: You speak English .
SPOTTED HORSE: Need words when trade with whites .
GLASS: Well I 'm grateful for you bringing me here havin ' them care for me . Now if you could point me which way it is you do your tradin ' with the whites .
SPOTTED HORSE: Whites . Bra-zo .
GLASS: Fort Brazeau ? That 's where I 'm tryin ' to get . Is it far from here ?
SPOTTED HORSE: Not walk . Hides soon .
GLASS: The men stole my rifle .
SPOTTED HORSE: Red Hawk ask who kill griz-lee .
GLASS: Grizzly ? Red Hawk smiles shakes his head .
RED HAWK: Arikara .
SPOTTED HORSE: He say Arikara take right ear of Sioux . Left ear of whites . Not know what they take from you .
THREE FEATHERS: Tatanka Wicasa .
BOYS: Tatanka Wicasa ! Tatanka Wicasa !
GLASS: Thank you .
SPOTTED HORSE: Good hunt .
GLASS: Yes . Glass smiles up at Spotted Horse 's son .
SPOTTED HORSE: You . Fam-i-lee ?
GLASS: No .
SPOTTED HORSE: No wom-an ? Wakayaja ? A long beat , then
GLASS: No . Not for a long time .
SPOTTED HORSE: Nice .
FITZGERALD: No please . But Glass swings the blade .
SPOTTED HORSE: We go . Glass calms nods .
BRAZEAU: Bon jour , Spotted Horse . You come with many hides I hope . We make good trades then .
GLASS: Good to see you again , Mr. Brazeau .
BRAZEAU: Jesus Christ , what happened to you goddamned face ?
GLASS: Had a tussle with a grizzly .
BRAZEAU: And now the grizzly , he do n't look so good either , eh ? Glass shakes his head .
GLASS: They looked after me for a spell . I 'm on my way to catch back up with Captain Henry at Fort Union . Needed to trade for some supplies on the Company 's credit if I could .
BRAZEAU: Oui , of course . Anything you like . Glass pulls down a KENTUCKY LONG RIFLE .
GLASS: We can start with this .
BRAZEAU: You can pick up the horse at the livery in the morning . I wish I could give you a room fo the night , but
GLASS: Wo n't be the last night I sleep on the ground . Glass nods to Brazeau , then walks out .
BRAZEAU: Take care of that face , Glass .
GLASS: You stay here tonight ?
SPOTTED HORSE: Your people ?
GLASS: No .
SPOTTED HORSE: You come then .
GLASS: Fort Union .
SPOTTED HORSE: You spend your life hunting enemy . Enemy wins .
GLASS: It will be over soon .
IN SIOUX: Thank you .
FITZGERALD: I had enough of this cold as hell shit .
ANDERSON: What 'd you figure when ya signed on outta that St. Louis whorehouse you was workin ' ? That you was headin ' off to paradise ? Pig snorts a laugh at Fitzgerald 's expense .
FITZGERALD: I tell ya what I figured , I figured I 'd be somewhere the piss would n't freeze before I got it outta my pecker .
BRIDGER: Figured wrong .
FITZGERALD: Waste a time to check traps in this weather while Henry sits warmin ' his ass on the stove in his office .
STUBBY BILL: Why do n't you go tell him that , Fitz ? Then start your hike back to St. Louie .
FITZGERALD: Shit , I walked up here , I got no problem walkin ' back .
MURPHY: Contracted for twelve months . We all did .
FITZGERALD: Henry can shove that contract up his toasty warm ass , or I 'll do it for him . The others laugh at Fitzgerald 's rambling .
ANDERSON: Just give that fat little whore you 're so sweet on a couple extra its she 'll have you thinkin ' it 's Spring already .
FITZGERALD: Hello ? Captain ?
MURPHY: That you , Fitzgerald ?
FITZGERALD: Left my rifle down there do n't want it out all night .
MURPHY: That were n't too smart .
FITZGERALD: Just do n't take a shot at me when I come back in .
MURPHY: We 'll see .
FITZGERALD: Not that you 'd hit me if you tried .
GLASS: I 'm Hugh Glass of
RUNTY MAN: We do n't serve niggers . Glass stares at the Runty Man a beat , then
GLASS: Of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company on my way to Fort Union .
RUNTY MAN: I do n't care if you was with Lewis and Clark headed for the new world . We do n't serve niggers .
GLASS: All I need is a horse and enough supplies to
TRAPPER: Ice musta froze up his ears , ` cause he ai n't listenin ' to you , Cees .
GLASS: to get me to Fort Union . I can sign a draft made good by Captain Henry .
RUNTY MAN: What the fuck happened to you face , boy ? You try to slice all the black off ?
TRAPPER #2: Maybe we oughta help him do it ight .
FAT TRAPPER: Best get on your way , boy .
GLASS: I 'm Hugh Glass of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company , and all I need is
RUNTY MAN: Do you believe this shit ?
FAT TRAPPER: Hell , I warned ya .
GLASS: All I need
RUNTY MAN: Shoot him , goddammit !
TRAPPER #2: I ca n't get a clear look .
RUNTY MAN: Shoot ` em both !
TRAPPER #2: It 's cold as hell , Cees .
FAT TRAPPER: And he did say to put it all on the Rocky Mountain tab . The Runty Man glares at the trappers .
STUBBY BILL: Jesus Christ .
BRIDGER: I 'm sorry .
GLASS: You took everything I had left me to die .
BRIDGER: I was scared of dyin ' .
BEAT: But every day since , I 've wished I had .
GLASS: There was n't no ` Ree that night , was there ? A long beat , then
BRIDGER: No .
HENRY: Hugh . Wait .
GLASS: Where 's Fitzgerald and my rifle ?
HENRY: Deserted two days ago . Along with about five hundred dollars of company money .
BEAT: Let 's get some coffee to warm you up . ( to Glass , but looking at
BRIDGER: I wan na hear what happened .
GLASS: I cut the shoes loose of her , and hiked over to Fort Talbot .
STUBBY BILL: Christ almighty .
GLASS: And you may hear from the fella there about a stoled horse and supplies charged to you .
HENRY: We 'll take care of it . You should go settle in .
MURPHY: There 's a couple fair whores next door that 'll ease the miles on ya , scars or not . Stubby Bill gives Murphy an elbow .
ANDERSON: Jesus , Murph .
MURPHY: I just meant I 'd go roust one of ` em for ya if you wanted .
GLASS: She can take the night off , but I would n't mind the use of her bed .
HENRY: Go clear out a room . The rest head on back to bunk .
PIG: I told ya I 'd see ya up here . You emember that , Hugh ?
GLASS: I do , Pig . You must have a little gypsy in ya . Pig grins and nods .
PIG: I 'll see ya in the mornin ' .
HENRY: Can I talk you outta what you 're planning ?
GLASS: Thank you for what you done fo me stitchin ' me back together givin ' me a chance .
HENRY: I 'm offerin ' you another right now to stay here let this thing go .
GLASS: He thinks he let me die . But he do n't know that he 's the one that 's kept me alive for the chance of findin ' him makin ' him pay fo what he done .
HENRY: The law will make Fitzgerald pay .
GLASS: You told me once that other men did n't think like him .
BEAT: But the truth is , most do . I seen it my whole life the looks folks give the whisperin ' . I watched my wife and son die from the feve on accounta no white doctor would care for ` em . Was n't no different to them than if their neighbor 's dog was sick .
MURPHY: He said he was goin ' to get his ifle And then Murphy catches himself shrugs .
PIG: And the Captain found the money gone .
GLASS: I 'll make my way down river . See what turns up .
STUBBY BILL: The kid 's gone gear and all . Musta slipped out before light . Stubby Bill waves Bridger 's journal at them . STUBBY BILL Just left this on his bunk . Henry takes the journal flips it open .
HENRY: `` Every day I think about what I done . I want to tell Pig and the others the truth but am afraid what they 'll think of me . I look at Fitzgerald and want to kill him but am afraid to try . I am a coward and wish he had n't been lyin about the Ree that night . I wish they had come and kilt us both . ''
GLASS: If I run across the boy , I 'll send him back your way .
HENRY: Fitzgerald stole five hundred dollars . Rocky Mountain Fu Company wants him too .
GLASS: I can do this on my own .
HENRY: I know you can . But maybe you wo n't have to .
RUNTY MAN: We ai n't got no food to spare , friend , if that 's what you 're lookin ' for .
FITZGERALD: Then what the hell have ya got ?
RUNTY MAN: Whiskey and blankets mostly . Weather 's held back deliveries . Fitzgerald throws a glance to the Trappers .
FITZGERALD: Gim me a couple bottles then . Goddamn ice shredded my boat . Been walkin ' for two days .
RUNTY MAN: Horses ai n't cheap this time a year .
FITZGERALD: Whatever the price , Rocky Mountain Fur Company 's good for it .
RUNTY MAN: You 're the second son of a bitch come in here makin ' that claim . And the first one left a bad taste .
FITZGERALD: That right ? Well I do n't know nothin ' about that . Just that I need a horse .
RUNTY MAN: So did this other fella . So he stole one along with Lange 's pistola . Trapper # 1 nods to Fitzgerald .
FITZGERALD: Fine then , I 'll pay cash for the horse . How much ?
RUNTY MAN: How ` bout you pay for your friend 's too .
TRAPPER #1: And my shooter .
FITZGERALD: Was n't my friend . Trapper # 1 stands up .
TRAPPER #1: Then from where I stand , you do n't got no friends at all .
FITZGERALD: Yeah , okay . I 'll collect from him . How much ?
RUNTY MAN: How ` bout we say eighty ( sees Fitzgerald does n't
ARGUE: five . Fitzgerald starts digging into his pocket .
FITZGERALD: You boys are leavin ' me with nothin ' . Better be a helluva horse .
RUNTY MAN: Pick of the litter . The Runty Man snatches the cash . RUNTY MAN And when you see that scarred-up nigger , you tell him he 'd best not show up here again .
FITZGERALD: When I see who ?
RUNTY MAN: The black son of a bitch that obbed me . You tell him that . A long beat , then
FITZGERALD: Scarred up , you say and headed up to Union ?
RUNTY MAN: That 's what he told us . Seemed eal anxious to get there too .
FITZGERALD: I 'll make sure to give him the message when I find him .
HENRY: Hugh .
GLASS: Ice tore it up .
HENRY: What 's out that direction ? Talbot ?
GLASS: And the Missouri . Doubt he 'd risk the river with the ` Ree . Likely grab a horse , and cross ove high take his chances goin ' east against the weather . When 'd you say he skipped out ?
HENRY: Three days ago now .
GLASS: We best pick up our pace .
HENRY: This was Fitzgerald camped here ?
GLASS: Couple nights back . But these tracks are n't all his .
HENRY: He 's travelin ' with somebody ?
GLASS: Came in after . Prints are smooth . Mocassins .
HENRY: But you figure they 're ` Ree .
GLASS: I do n't figure nothin ' , Captain . But whoever it is , they 're a good day behind Fitzgerald .
HENRY: You told me once you knew enough to keep away from the ` Ree .
GLASS: I do .
HENRY: You figure this is smart then ? Glass swings up onto his horse .
GLASS: You 're welcome to head back , Captain .
HENRY: What if we find Fitzgerald and I ask you not to do this ? Glass spreads a blanket over the ground .
GLASS: Do n't ask me .
HENRY: ` Ree ?
GLASS: Wait !
HENRY: So much for stayin ' quiet .
GLASS: We needed to pick up some time anyways . The two riders disappear into the dark trees .
HENRY: Whatta ya got ?
GLASS: Smoke .
HENRY: What if it 's ` Ree ?
GLASS: Then we leave ` em be meet back up here .
FITZGERALD: Did n't figure an important man like you to be away from your stove on a night as cold as this , Captain . You lost ?
HENRY: I 'm here to save your life .
FITZGERALD: I done told you boys I do n't need savin ' by you or nobody else .
GLASS: You should n't a come .
FITZGERALD: ( through the water and
ICE: Help me ! Glass please !
GLASS: I am Tatanka Wicasa ! I have killed whites and I have killed Arikara and I have killed grizzly ! AND I
FRANK: So , what do you do ?
APRIL: I 'm studying to be an actress . You ?
FRANK: I 'm a longshoreman .
APRIL: No , I mean really .
FRANK: I mean really too . Starting Monday , though , I 'm doing something a little more glamorous . Night cashier at a cafeteria .
APRIL: I do n't mean how you make money . I mean what are you interested in ?
FRANK: Honey - if I had the answer to that one , I bet I 'd bore us both to death in half an hour .
WOMAN: Thank God that 's over
MRS. GIVINGS: Frank ! Very nice Frank !
FRANK: Thanks , Mrs. Givings .
MRS. GIVINGS: I ca n't tell you how much we enjoyed it . You have a very talented wife .
FRANK: I 'll pass it along !
MILLY: Frank !
FRANK: Hi !
MILLY: She 's through there ! You ` bout ready for that drink ?
FRANK: Couple of minutes !
APRIL: Hi . You about ready to leave ? I 've just got to get this makeup off , then we can go .
FRANK: Well I guess it was n't a triumph or anything , was it ?
APRIL: I guess not . I 'll be ready in a minute .
FRANK: Take your time .
APRIL: Will you do me a favor ? Milly and Shep wanted us to go out with them afterwards . Will you say we ca n't ? Say it 's because of the baby sitte or something ?
FRANK: Well , the thing is , I already said that we could . I mean , I just saw them out there and I said we would .
APRIL: Oh . Then would you mind going out again and saying you were mistaken ? That should be simple enough .
FRANK: Do n't you think that 's a little bit ude , April ?
APRIL: Well I 'll tell them myself .
FRANK: Okay . Okay . Take it easy . I 'll tell them .
APRIL: Thank you .
FRANK: We just never should 've let you get mixed up in the damned thing .
APRIL: All right .
FRANK: You 've studied for Christ 's sake .
APRIL: Could we sort of stop talking about it now ?
FRANK: Sure . I just do n't want you feeling bad about it , that 's all . Because it 's not worth it . I mean , it 's bad enough having to live out here among these damn people - what 'd you say ?
APRIL: I said yes . All right , Frank . Could you just stop talking now , efore you drive me crazy , please ?
FRANK: Baby , it 's okay
APRIL: Please do n't touch me .
FRANK: April
APRIL: Why ca n't youjust LEAVE ME
FRANK: It strikes me , that there 's a considerable amount of bullshit going on here . And there 's one or two things I 'd like to clear up . Number one , it 's not my fault the play was lousy . Number two , it 's sure as hell not my fault you did n't turn out to be an actress , and the sooner you get over that little piece of soap opera the etter off we 'll both be . Numbe three , I do n't happen to fit the ole of dumb , insensitive suburban husband ; you 've been trying to hang that one on me ever since we moved here . Number four -
APRIL: No . Just let me stand here a second .
FRANK: April ?
APRIL: Have n't I made it clear I do n't particularly want to talk about it ?
FRANK: Okay . Jesus , I 'm trying to be nice about this thing .
APRIL: How kind of you . How terribly , terribly kind of you .
FRANK: Wait a minute . I do n't deserve this .
APRIL: You 're always so wonderfully definite , are n't you , on the subject of what you do and do n't deserve ?
FRANK: Wait a minute !
APRIL: Christ , I wish you 'd stayed home tonight !
FRANK: You know what you are when you 're like this ? You 're sick . I really mean that . You 're sick !
APRIL: And you know what you are ? You 're disgusting .
FRANK: Oh , yeah ?
APRIL: Just because you 've got me safely in this little trap , you think you can bully me into feeling whateve you want !
FRANK: You in a trap ! You in a trap ! Jesus , do n't make me laugh !
APRIL: Yes , me . Me ! Me ! Me ! Oh , you poor , pathetic little boy  Look at you ! Look at you , and tell me how by any stretch of the imagination you can call yourself a man !
FRANK: Do n't look at me like that , April .
APRIL: Could we please go home now ?
FRANK: Good morning , Jack .
JACK: Nothing good about it , I assure you .
MRS. GIVINGS: Of course , I knew the moment you came off the train what you were looking for A small remodeled arn , or a carriage house  And I just hate to be the one to tell you that sort of thing just is n't available anymore But I do n't want you to despair . There is one place down here I want to show you Now of course it is n't very desirable at this end . As you see , Crawford Road is mostly these little cinder-blocky , pick-up trucky places  plumbers , carpenters , little local people of that sort .
APRIL: Oh , yes .
FRANK: You wanted to see me ?
BANDY: Came for you from Toledo this morning .
FRANK: Oh , right , sorry . I thought I 'd taken care of that
BANDY: I 'm not prepared to have this conversation again , Frank . You understand ?
FRANK: Absolutely , yes .
BANDY: These folks in the provinces look up to us , Frank . We need to be efficient . We ca n't have this kind of back and forth , and so forth . It 's just not efficient . Am I ight ?
FRANK: Absolutely , yes , yes
JACK: What was that about ?
FRANK: Toledo . Branch manager wants a evised brochure for the conference on `` The Knox 500 . '' `` It 's just not efficient . ''
JACK: Sounds like a real goodie .
FRANK: I do n't even know what the Knox 500 does Do you ?
JACK: Do n't insult me .
FRANK: Now , if you 'll look in the inactive file under SP-1109 you 'll find copies of all the stuff we sent to the agency and that way we can trace the thing back to its original sources .
MAUREEN: I 'm not really hungry .
FRANK: Good . I 'll check on you later .
MAUREEN: Oh ? How 's that ?
FRANK: I can show you the ropes . There 's an art to survival at Knox . Let me show you what I mean .
MAUREEN: Wow .
FRANK: Hello Mrs. Jorgensen . Frank Wheeler here . Just wanted to let you know that I 've had to send Maureen Grube down to Visual Aides for me . I 'll probably need her the est of the day Okay ? Fine . You too .
MAUREEN: I never even heard of Visual Aides .
FRANK: That 's because it does n't exist .
APRIL: Hi Helen .
MRS. GIVINGS: I ca n't stay a minute My , do n't you look comfy ! I just wanted to ing this sedum for that messy patch in the front yard .
APRIL: Well , thank you You want some coffee ?
MRS. GIVINGS: Only if you 're having some .
APRIL: Is there something I can do fo you , Helen ?
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh yes , I almost forgot . I do have a small favor I 'd like to ask It 's about my son , John . He 's been in the hospital .
APRIL: I 'm sorry to hear that .
MRS. GIVINGS: Well , actually , just for the present , he 's in Pleasant Brook Psychiatric .
APRIL: I 'm so sorry .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh Nothing serious . He just got a little run down . Things can just get the better of us sometimes . Do n't you think ?
APRIL: Yes . Of course .
MRS. GIVINGS: It really is a marvellous facility and the treatments seem to be doing him wonders Anyway , they said getting out for an afternoon might do him some good .
APRIL: We 'd love to Helen .
MRS. GIVINGS: So , I thought perhaps if you had some time
APRIL: We 'd love to .
MRS. GIVINGS: Thank you , dear Thank you .
FRANK: You know what today is ?
MAUREEN: Monday ?
FRANK: It 's my birthday . I 'm thirty years old today .
MAUREEN: Happy birthday !
FRANK: Visual Aides .
MAUREEN: What-a-joke .
FRANK: Want to hear a real joke ?
MAUREEN: Yeah ?
FRANK: He was a salesman in Yonkers . Once a year he used to take me into the city for lunch . It was supposed to e a special , life-advice sort of occasion .
MAUREEN: Nice .
FRANK: Not really I used to sit there and think , ` I hope to Christ I do n't end up like you . '
MAUREEN: I think I kind of lost you You father worked for Knox ?
FRANK: How ` bout some air ?
APRIL: I 've never really been anywhere .
FRANK: Maybe I 'll take you with me .
APRIL: Frank Wheeler ?
FRANK: Mm ?
APRIL: I think you 're the most interesting person I 've ever met .
FRANK: Well , I guess this was n't what you had in mind when you went to work this morning ?
MAUREEN: No . It certainly was n't .
FRANK: Sure , here .
MAUREEN: Can I get you a drink or anything ?
FRANK: No thanks , Maureen . Actually , I guess I 'd better be cutting out , it 's getting kind of late .
MAUREEN: Gee , that 's right . Have you missed your train ?
FRANK: It 's all right , I 'll get the next one .
APRIL: Frank
FRANK: Why are you all dressed up ?
APRIL: First of all , I missed you all day and I want to say I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry for the way I 've been since that stupid play . I 'm sorry fo everything and And I love you Now wait here till I call you . Okay ?
FRANK: What 's all this about ?
APRIL: You know how much money we have saved ?
FRANK: What we get for the houseWhat are you talking about ? Where are we going to live ?
APRIL: Paris .
FRANK: You 're serious ?
APRIL: Yes . What 's stopping us ?
FRANK: What 's stopping us ? Well , I can think of a lot of things . Fo instance , what kind of a job could I possibly get ?
APRIL: You wo n't be getting any kind of job , because I will .
FRANK: Oh , right .
APRIL: Do n't laugh listen a minute ! Have you any idea what they pay fo secretarial positions in the government agencies in Europe ? Embassies and those things .
FRANK: No , I do n't .
APRIL: I 'm serious about this Frank . Do you think I 'm kidding or something ?
FRANK: No , I know , I know . I just have a couple of questions , is all . Fo one thing , do you mind telling me what exactly I 'm supposed to be doing while you 're out earning all this money ?
APRIL: Do n't you see that 's the whole idea ? You 'll be doing what you should 've been allowed to do seven years ago . You 'll have time , Frank . You 'll have time to find out what it is that you actually want to do , and when you figure it out you 'll have the time and the freedom to start doing it .
FRANK: Sweetheart , it 's just not very ealistic , is all .
APRIL: Well , I happen to think this is unrealistic . I think it 's unrealistic for a man with a fine mind to go on working like a dog year after year at a job he ca n't stand , coming home to a place he ca n't stand , to a wife who 's equally unable to stand the same things .
FRANK: Listen we decided to move out here . No one ever forced me to take the job at Knox .
APRIL: When I first met you , there was nothing in the world you could n't do or be .
FRANK: I was a little wise guy with a big mouth , that 's all .
APRIL: You were not ! How can you even say that ?
FRANK: All right So , I 'll have time . And God knows that 's appealing . It 's very appealing . And I mean , everything you say might make a certain amount of sense , if I had some definite talent maybe . If I were an artist or a writer .
APRIL: But Frank , listen to me It 's what you are that 's being stifled here . It 's what you are that 's being denied and denied and denied in this kind of life .
FRANK: And what 's that ?
APRIL: Do n't you know ?
FRANK: Okay .
APRIL: Okay ?
FRANK: Why not ? Why the hell not ?
JACK: Ah , Franklin . Good to see you shining face . What 's the news ?
FRANK: I 'm moving to Paris .
JACK: Right . And I 'm moving to Tangiers .
FRANK: Intra-company letter to Toledo Attention B.F. Chalmers , anch manager With regard to ecent and repeated correspondence , this is to advise that the matte has been very satisfactorily taken in hand , period , paragraph .
APRIL: Thank you .
CLERK: Good luck .
JACK: And when does this noble experiment commence ?
FRANK: September . October at the outside .
ED: Right , yes .
VINCE: Absolutely , absolutely .
JACK: But I mean , assuming there is a true vocation waiting for you . Would n't you be just as likely to discover it here as there ?
FRANK: No I do n't think it 's possible to discover anything on the fifteenth floor of the Knox uilding , and I do n't think any of you do either .
APRIL: All the way to here .
JENNIFER: But why ?
APRIL: Well , sweetheart . It 's a big world out there and we thought maybe we should go see a little bit of it .
MICHAEL: How far is it ?
APRIL: A long way . We have to take a oat ride over the sea to get there .
JENNIFER: I wo n't know anyone there .
APRIL: I know . And neither will I . But emember when you started school ? And now look how many friends you have
FRANK: You 'll never guess what they eat in Paris . You 'll never guess
JENNIFER: What ?
FRANK: Snails .
APRIL: And frog 's legs !
SHEP: Buddappa banh ! Banh ! Banh !
MILLY: You better get changed , they 'll be here soon .
SHEP: That what you 're wearing ?
MILLY: Do n't you like it ?
SHEP: No No . You look great , doll . Guess I better haul ass .
APRIL: Oh those look great . I 'm starving !
MILLY: April , I ca n't get over it - you look like the cat who ate the canary ! Do you have something to tell us ? A little bit of news ?
SHEP: Not to pry or anything .
MILLY: I 'm not prying . Am I prying ? I did n't mean to .
FRANK: Actually , we have got some pretty important news .
APRIL: We 're going to Europe . To Paris To live .
MILLY: What ?
SHEP: When ?
MILLY: Why ?
FRANK: September .
MILLY: But what for ?
FRANK: What for ? Because we 've always wanted to . Because the kids are still young . Because it 's eautiful . Shep , you tell her .
SHEP: It 's a great city .
MILLY: When did you make this decision ?
APRIL: Oh about a week ago its hard to remember . We just suddenly decided to go , that 's all .
MILLY: About a week ago , and you tell us now !
APRIL: We had to get used to the idea .
SHEP: So , what 's the deal , Frank ? You get a job over there , or what ?
FRANK: No . Not exactly .
SHEP: What do you mean , ` not exactly ? '
APRIL: Frank wo n't be doing any kind of a job , because I will .
SHEP: And what are you going to do ?
FRANK: I 'm going to study and I 'm going to read and I suppose I 'm going to finally figure out what I want to do with my life .
SHEP: While she supports you ?
FRANK: Yes . While she supports me At least in the beginning .
APRIL: You would n't believe what they pay for secretarial work in government agencies over there . NATO and E.C.A . and those places .
FRANK: The cost of living is dirt cheap compared to here , so we should be all right .
APRIL: The truth is we just need something different .
MILLY: Gee , it sounds wonderful , kids . I mean it ; it really sounds wonderful . We 'll certainly miss you , though - wo n't we , sweetie ? Golly .
SHEP: Sure .
MILLY: Paris . Wow .
SHEP: You know what I think ?
MILLY: Oh God , I 'm so relieved . Me too I was thinking that the whole time .
SHEP: What kind of man is going to sit around in his bathrobe picking his nose while his wife works all day ?
MILLY: I do n't know , Shep . I just do n't know .
SHEP: What is it ?
MILLY: Nothing . I 'm just so relieved .
SHEP: Come on . Do n't cry . Please . It 's all right . It 's going to be all ight .
FRANK: Jesus , their faces ! You 'd think we 'd told them that we were swimming up the Yangtzee river o something .
APRIL: I felt that way once too .
FRANK: When ?
APRIL: The first time you made love to me .
FRANK: What 's up ?
ED: Bart Pollock is here .
VINCE: He 's in Bandy 's office .
FRANK: Yeah ?
ED: Looks like he wants to talk to you .
JACK: Hey . Keep my name out of it .
BANDY: Frank . How are you ? You know Bart Pollock ?
FRANK: Well , we 've never met , but -
BART POLLOCK: Glad to know you Frank .
FRANK: You would n't have believed this guy .
APRIL: Wish I saw his face when you told him you were leaving .
FRANK: Horse 's ass .
APRIL: I think this is them .
MRS. GIVINGS: Sorry to be late .
APRIL: You 're not late .
MRS. GIVINGS: The traffic was terrible .
MR. GIVINGS: Good to see you .
MRS. GIVINGS: Was n't it terrible , Howard ?
MR. GIVINGS: Route 12 .
APRIL: You did n't have to do that .
FRANK: The time they finish that stretch of road , they 'll have to start all over again .
APRIL: And you must be John ?
MRS. GIVINGS: Say hello , John .
JOHN: Nice to meetcha . Heard a lot aboutcha .
MRS. GIVINGS: Where are your darling children ?
APRIL: They 're at a birthday party . Sorry they could n't be here .
JOHN: Do n't worry . If I had a certified lunatic coming around the house , I 'd probably get the kids out of the way too .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , look at all this food ! You did n't have to go to any trouble for us .
APRIL: It 's just some sandwiches .
JOHN: Helen 's been talking it up about you people for months .
FRANK: Who 'd like some sherry ?
MRS. GIVINGS: Please , do n't bother Frank .
JOHN: I 'd like some sherry . And I 'll drink Helen 's if she does n't beat me to it .
FRANK: I think I can do that .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , this is the most wonderful egg salad , April . You must tell me how you fix it .
JOHN: You a lawyer Frank ?
FRANK: No , I 'm not .
JOHN: I could use a lawyer .
MR. GIVINGS: John , let 's not get started again about the lawyer .
JOHN: Pop , could n't you just sit there and eat your wonderful egg salad , and quit horning in ?
MRS. GIVINGS: John , come and have a look out this fabulous picture window .
JOHN: If he hits her with it and kills her , that 's a criminal case .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , look , the sun 's coming out !
JOHN: If all he does is break the coffee table and give her a certain amount of aggravation and she decides to go to court over it , that 's a civil case .
MRS. GIVINGS: Maybe we 'll see a rainbow ! John , come have a look .
JOHN: Ma , how about doing everybody a favor ? How about shutting up !
MR. GIVINGS: Steady down , now .
FRANK: I can look into it . Maybe ecommend someone .
JOHN: So , what do you do , Frank ?
FRANK: I work for Knox Business Machines .
JOHN: You design the machines ?
FRANK: Nope .
JOHN: Make ` em , sell ` em , repair ` em ?
MRS. GIVINGS: All these questions .
FRANK: I sort of help sell them , I guess . I work in the office . Actually , it 's sort of a stupid job . I mean there 's nothing  you know , interesting about it or anything .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , Frank
JOHN: Whaddya do it for then ?
MR. GIVINGS: Maybe Frank does n't want to be questioned like this , son .
JOHN: Okay , okay , okay  I know it 's none of my business . And besides , I know the answer . You want to play house , you got to have a job . You want to play very nice house , very sweet house , then you got to have a job you do n't like . Anyone comes along and asks `` Whaddya do it for ? ' he 's probably on a four-hour pass from the State funny farm . All agreed ? Ma ?
MR. GIVINGS: Sorry , Frank .
FRANK: Do n't be . I agree with everything you said , John . We both do . That 's why I 'm quitting the job in the fall and we 're taking off .
APRIL: We 're moving to Paris .
JOHN: Did you know about this , Ma ? Wow . How do you feel about that , Ma ? The nice young Wheelers are taking off !
MRS. GIVINGS: John , please .
MR. GIVINGS: Steady down , son .
FRANK: How about some fresh air , John ?
MRS. GIVINGS: I do n't know if it 's a good idea .
MR. GIVINGS: If John wants to , I do n't see the harm .
APRIL: I hear you 're a mathematician .
JOHN: You hear wrong . It 's all gone now .
APRIL: All gone ?
JOHN: You know what electrical shock treatments are ?
APRIL: Yes . Yes I do .
JOHN: I 've had thirty-seven .
APRIL: How awful .
JOHN: ` How awful ' Why , because mathematics is so ` interesting ? '
APRIL: No . Because the shocks must be awful and well , because it 's awful not to be able to do what it is you want to do . I think mathematics are dull .
JOHN: I like your girl , Frank .
FRANK: Me too .
JOHN: So , what do a couple of people like you have to run away from ?
FRANK: We 're not running .
JOHN: And what 's in Paris ?
APRIL: A different way of life .
FRANK: So maybe we are running We 're unning from the hopeless emptiness of the whole life here .
JOHN: The hopeless emptiness ? Now , you 've said it . Plenty of people are on to the emptiness , but it takes real guts to see the hopelessness Wow .
APRIL: You know , he 's the first person who seemed to know what we were talking about .
FRANK: That 's true . Maybe we are just as crazy as he is .
APRIL: If being crazy means living life as if it matters then I do n't care if we are completely insane . Do you ?
FRANK: No .
APRIL: I love you so much .
BART POLLOCK: Tell you something , Frank . I 'm a little sore at Bandy for the way he 's kept you under a bushel all these years . This place okay , fo you ?
FRANK: This is just fine , sir . Fine .
BART POLLOCK: One thing interests me , Frank , and one thing only selling the electronic computer to the American usinessman
FRANK: Well , sir , it sounds exciting .
BART POLLOCK: Bart !
FRANK: Bart
BART POLLOCK: Ca n't say that I do . Relation of yours ?
FRANK: My father . He worked at Knox almost twenty years .
BART POLLOCK: Earl Wheeler Earl Wheeler
FRANK: No reason you would have heard of him .
BART POLLOCK: Well , I 'm sure he was a good man .
FRANK: There 's something I should have mentioned earlier I 'm leaving the firm . In the fall .
BART POLLOCK: Another outfit ?
FRANK: No , it 's not another outfit
BART POLLOCK: Now look , Frank . Is it a question of money ? Because if it is , there 's no reason we ca n't get together on a satisfactory 
FRANK: I appreciate that , but it 's not money . It 's more of a personal thing .
BART POLLOCK: A personal thing ? I see . Frank Let me tell you something my father told me A man only gets a couple chances in life . If he does n't grab ` em by the balls , it wo n't be long before he finds himself sitting around wondering how he got to be second rate .
FRANK: I guess so .
BART POLLOCK: So , do me a favor Sleep on it . Discuss it with your wife . Because let 's face it where the hell would any of us be without our wives , anyway ?
FRANK: Knowing what you 've got , comma , knowing what you need , comma , Knowing what you can do without , dash . That 's inventory control .
MAUREEN: Oh , hi Frank . Working late ?
FRANK: I got to dig myself out here .
MAUREEN: I heard you were getting promoted .
FRANK: Huh . Yeah , I guess so
MAUREEN: So
FRANK: Yeah . Maybe .
MAUREEN: I 'll just get my coat .
JENNIFER: I 'm going to take my doll carriage and my bear and my three Easte abbits and my giraffe and all my dolls and my doll house .
APRIL: I thought maybe we 'd give the doll house to Madeline .
JENNIFER: No ! I do n't want to give it to Madeline .
APRIL: I already explained to you , the big things are going to be hard to pack .
JENNIFER: But Madeline can have my bear and my Easter rabbits -
APRIL: No ! Just the big things . Look . Would n't you rather go outside and play with Michael .
JENNIFER: I do n't feel like it .
APRIL: You 've been inside all day .
JENNIFER: I do n't feel like it !
APRIL: Well , I do n't feel like explaining everything fifteen times to somebody who 's too bored and silly to listen !
FRANK: What 's the matter ?
APRIL: Nothing .
FRANK: I do n't believe you . Did something happen today or what ?
APRIL: Nothing happened today that I have n't known about for days and days .
FRANK: What ?
APRIL: Oh God , Frank , please do n't look so dense . Do you mean you have n't guessed or anything ?
FRANK: What are you talking about ?
APRIL: I 'm pregnant , that 's all .
FRANK: What ? Jesus .
APRIL: Oh , Frank , I meant to wait until dinner to tell you , but I just - well , I 've been pretty sure all week and today I went to the Docto and now I ca n't even pretend it 's not true .
FRANK: Jesus How long ?
APRIL: Ten weeks .
FRANK: You did n't say anything .
APRIL: I thought Oh , I do n't know what I thought .
FRANK: I know you are .
APRIL: We do n't have to let this stop us . There are things we can do . Remember that girl at school I told you about ? As long as you do it efore 12 weeks , it 's fine .
FRANK: Okay . We 'll figure it out .
APRIL: I love you Frank .
FRANK: I love you too .
SHEP: So , Frank , how 's work ? They gon na survive without you ?
FRANK: Actually Something kinda funny happened the other day . I did some dumb little piece of work to get myself off the hook with Bandy , and suddenly I 'm The Bright Young Man .
SHEP: That 's always the way , is n't it ?
FRANK: It 's incredible . I knocked this thing off in a couple of minutes and now they want me to join thei team of ` specialist ' salesmen .
SHEP: Morons .
FRANK: It 'd be funny , if they were n't talking about so much damn money .
SHEP: So , you tempted ?
FRANK: Well , it 's kind of ironic , do n't you think ?
SHEP: She okay ?
APRIL: I thought you turned the job down ?
FRANK: Not yet It 's just an option , that 's all . With the money they 're talking , things could be different for us here . We could get a bette place . Travel .
APRIL: So you 've made up your mind ?
FRANK: No . Like I said , it 's an option .
APRIL: And supposing you 're right . You make all this money and we have this interesting life here . Wo n't you still be wasting your life toiling away at a job you find idiculous ? Just like your father .
FRANK: Maybe we let that be my business .
APRIL: Your business ?
FRANK: It 's too hot for this . I 'm going to get wet .
APRIL: You do n't want to go , do you ?
FRANK: Come on , April . Of course I do .
APRIL: You do n't ! Because you 've neve tried at anything . And if you do n't try at anything you ca n't fail .
FRANK: What the hell do you mean I do n't try ? I support you , do n't I ? I pay for this house . I work ten hours a day at a job I ca n't stand .
APRIL: You do n't have to !
FRANK: Bullshit ! I 'm not happy about it . But I have the backbone not to run away from my responsibilities !
APRIL: It takes backbone to lead the life you want , Frank .
FRANK: Is it alright with you if I go to the bathroom ?
APRIL: And what do you think you 're going to do ? You 're going to stop me ?
FRANK: You 're damn right !
APRIL: Go ahead and try !
FRANK: Listen . Listen to me . You do this - you do this and I swear to God I 'll -
APRIL: You 'll what ? You 'll leave me ? Is that a threat , or a promise ?
FRANK: When did you buy this , April ? I want to know !
APRIL: You know you really are being melodramatic about the whole thing . As long as it 's done in the first twelve weeks , it 's perfectly safe .
FRANK: That 's now April ! Do n't I get a say ?
APRIL: Of course you do ! It would be fo you , Frank , do n't you see ? So you can have time . Like we talked about .
FRANK: How can it be for me if the thought makes my stomach turn over ?
APRIL: Then it 's for me Tell me we can have the baby in Paris , Frank . But do n't make me stay here . Please .
FRANK: We ca n't have the baby in Paris .
APRIL: Why not ? I do n't need everything we have here . I do n't care where we live ! I mean who made these ules , anyway ? The only reason we moved out here was because I got pregnant . Then we had anothe child to prove the first one was n't a mistake . I mean how long does it go on ?
FRANK: All I know is what I feel . And anyone else in their right mind would feel the same way .
APRIL: But I 've had two children . Does n't that count in my favor ?
FRANK: Christ ! The fact that you even put it that way ! You make it sound like having children is a punishment .
APRIL: I love my children .
FRANK: And you 're sure about that ?
APRIL: What the hell is that supposed to mean ?
FRANK: April , you just said our daughte was mistake . How do I know you did n't try to get rid of her , o Michael for that matter ? How do I know you did n't try to flush ou entire fucking family down the toilet ?
APRIL: No that 's not true . Of course I did n't .
FRANK: But how do I know April ?
APRIL: Stop . Please just stop , Frank .
FRANK: April , a normal woman , a normal sane mother does n't buy herself a piece of rubber tubing to give herself an abortion so she can , go live out some God damn fantasy .
APRIL: And the new job 's going to pay for that too ?
FRANK: April if you need a shrink , it 'll e paid for . Obviously .
APRIL: Okay . I guess there is n't much more to say , then , is there ?
FRANK: I guess maybe it was .
APRIL: I hope so Frank . I really hope so .
RECEPTIONIST: Thank you for waiting . Mr. Pollock can see you now .
ED: I ca n't say I 'm sorry .
VINCE: Would n't have been the same without you .
JACK: You 'd have been sorely missed in the old cubicle , I can tell you that .
FRANK: What ?
JACK: Well , the plan always seemed a touch unrealistic , do n't you think ?
FRANK: No . I suppose it is n't .
JACK: Well , we wo n't be the only ones glad to hear the news . They 'll be celebrating in the secretarial pool .
MILLY: Hey ! Remember the first time you ought us here ? You said , it takes a special kind of taste to enjoy Vito 's Log Cabin !
SHEP: It 's so awful it 's kinda nice !
MILLY: That 's right !
SHEP: At least Europe 's not going anywhere .
FRANK: Wan na dance ?
APRIL: I do n't really feel like it .
MILLY: I 'll dance !
FRANK: Think she 'll be okay ?
MILLY: Oh , sure . Give us girls a couple of days and we can get ove anything !
FRANK: You okay ?
MILLY: GeeI 'm afraid I 'm not very
SHEP: Of all the inconsiderate
APRIL: Look - why do n't you take Milly home , then go home yourself and that would take care of both sitters . Then Shep can take me home later .
SHEP: All right with me .
FRANK: You 'll be alright ?
APRIL: Sure .
SHEP: I 'm sorry you 're not going away anymore . I know it was important to you .
APRIL: It did n't have to be Paris .
SHEP: You just wanted out , huh ?
APRIL: I wanted in . I just wanted us to live again .
SHEP: Sure you are . You 're The Wheelers . You 're a terrific couple , everyone says so .
APRIL: I saw a different life . I ca n't stop seeing it . Ca n't leave , ca n't stay . No damn use to anyone .
SHEP: Let me take you somewhere .
APRIL: No . Please . Here . Now . In the ack seat .
SHEP: I mean it , I love you .
APRIL: Please , just be quiet for a minute , then you can take me home .
FRANK: It 's beautiful out .
APRIL: Yes ; it 's lovely .
FRANK: You know what today is ?
APRIL: That 's right .
FRANK: Look , this has been kind of a crazy summer . We 've both been under a strain . I mean I know you 're upset .
APRIL: You know I 'm not sleeping with you and you want to know why ?
FRANK: Okay . What do you feel like talking about ?
APRIL: Would it be all right if we did n't talk about anything ? Ca n't we just take each day as it comes , and do the best we can , and not feel we have to talk about everything all the time ?
FRANK: I do n't think I suggested we talk about everything all the time . My point was , we 've both been under a strain and we ought to be trying to help each other as much as we can ight now .
APRIL: Why did you ?
FRANK: Baby , I do n't know . I think it was a simple case of wanting to be a man again after all that abortion usiness . Some kind of neurotic , irrational need to prove something .
APRIL: No . I do n't mean why did you have the girl ; I mean why did you tell me about it ?
FRANK: Why do n't you say what you feel ?
APRIL: I do n't feel anything .
FRANK: In other words you do n't care what I do or who I fuck or anything ?
APRIL: No ; I guess that 's right ; I do n't .
FRANK: Do n't you seeDo n't you see , I want you to care .
APRIL: Oh , I know you do . And I suppose I would if I loved you . But you see I do n't think I do anymore . And I only just figured that out . And that 's why I 'd just as soon not do any talking right now .
FRANK: Oh , now do n't give me this shit ! You know God damn well you love me !
APRIL: You think so ? !
FRANK: You know GOD DAMN WELL !
APRIL: I 'm sorry dinner 's late . Can I get anyone a refill ?
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , do n't worry . It 's nice just to sit for a bit and socializeYou eally did n't need to go through all the trouble of cooking . I can see you have a lot to do with packing and what not .
FRANK: Actually , there 's been a change of plans .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh ?
FRANK: I thought maybe it was obvious April 's pregnant .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , April ! I ca n't tell you how pleased I am . Oh , but I expect you 'll be needing a bigger house , now , wo n't you ?
JOHN: Hold it a second , Ma .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh John , really . I do n't think we need to
JOHN: I 'm asking the man a question . If he does n't want to give me the answer , I 'm assuming he 'll have sense enough to tell me so .
FRANK: Suppose we just say that people anywhere are n't very well advised to have babies unless they can afford them .
JOHN: Okay . Okay ; it 's a question of money . Money 's always a good eason
MRS. GIVINGS: John , please , you 're being very
JOHN: What happened , Frank ? You get cold feet , or what ? You decide you 're etter off here after all ? You figure it 's more comfy here in the old Hopeless Emptiness after all , or
FRANK: Now look , I think that 's just about enough out of you . I mean , who the hell do you think you are ? You come in here and say whatever crazy God damn thing comes into your head and I think it 's about time someone told you to keep your God damn -
MRS. GIVINGS: He 's not well , Frank .
FRANK: Not well , my ass ! I do n't give a damn if he 's sick or well or dead or alive , he should keep his fucking opinions in the fucking insane asylum where they belong !
MR. GIVINGS: Let 's go , son .
JOHN: Big man you got there , April .
FRANK: You fucking.. !
MRS. GIVINGS: He 's not well , Frank !
MR. GIVINGS: All right , John . Let 's get on out to the car now .
MRS. GIVINGS: I 'm sorry April , I 'm so sorry
JOHN: Right Sorry , sorry , sorry ! Okay Ma ? Have I said ` Sorry ' enough times ? I am sorry , too . Damn ; I bet I 'm just about the sorriest bastard I know . Course , get right down to it , I do n't have a whole hell of a lot to be glad about , do I ?
FRANK: Okay , okay , do n't tell me . Do n't tell me ; let me guess . I made a Disgusting Spectacle of Myself . Right ?
APRIL: Right .
FRANK: And everything that man said is True . Right ? Is n't that what you 're going to say ?
APRIL: Apparently I do n't have to . You 're saying it for me .
FRANK: But you 're wrong .
APRIL: Why am I wrong ?
FRANK: Because the man is insane . He 's fucking insane ! Do you know what the definition of insanity is ?
APRIL: What is it , Frank ?
FRANK: The inability to relate to anothe human being . It 's the inability to love .
APRIL: The in the in ; the inabil ; the inability to
FRANK: No . Wrong . You 're not crazy and you do love me ; that 's the point .
APRIL: But I do n't . In fact I loathe the sight of you . You 're just a boy who made me laugh at a party once and if you come any closer , if you touch me or anything I think I 'll scream .
FRANK: Oh baby listen
APRIL: What 're you going to do now ? Are you going to hit me ? To show how much you love me ?
FRANK: Oh , no , do n't worry , I ca n't be othered ! You 're not worth the trouble it 'd take to hit you . You 're not worth the powder it 'd take to blow you up . You 're an empty
APRIL: Do n't come any closer .
FRANK: April , listen , I
APRIL: Do n't come any closer . Ca n't I even get away from you in the fucking woods ?
FRANK: April , listen , I did n't mean that . Honestly ; I did n't mean what I said .
APRIL: Are you still talking ? Is n't there any way to stop your talking ? I NEED to think . Ca n't you see that ?
FRANK: Please come back . What 're you doing out here ?
APRIL: Do you want me to scream again , Frank ? Because I will , if you say another word ! I mean it !
FRANK: Good morning .
APRIL: Would you like scrambled eggs o fried ?
FRANK: Oh . It does n't really matter - Uh scrambled , I guess , if it 's easy .
APRIL: Fine . I 'll have scrambled too .
FRANK: It 's kinda nice having breakfast without the kids for a change .
APRIL: Yes . I thought you 'd probably want a good breakfast today . I mean it 's kind of an important day for you , is n't it ? Is n't this the day you have your conference with Pollock ?
FRANK: Yes . That 's right , yes .
APRIL: I imagine it is a pretty big deal ; for them , anyway . What exactly do you think you 'll be doing ? You never have told me much about it .
FRANK: Have n't I ? Well I think this whole thing is about Knox getting eady to buy up one of these really ig computers , bigger than the ` 500 ' . Did I tell you about that ?
APRIL: No , I do n't believe you did .
FRANK: Well , you know Basically it 's just aa big , fast adding machine . Only
APRIL: Oh , I see . At least I think I see ; yes . It 's really sort of interesting , is n't it ?
FRANK: Well , I do n't know , it 's yeah , I guess it is sort of interesting , in a way .
APRIL: You should value what you do Frank . You 're obviously good at it .
FRANK: Guess I 'd better be getting started .
APRIL: Thank you I 'm glad ; I enjoyed it too .
FRANK: Then you do n't You do n't hate me , or anything ?
APRIL: No ; of course I do n't .
FRANK: Okay , then So long .
APRIL: Hello Milly ? Everything all ight ? My voice sounds what ?
SHEP: Frank ? They tell you what happened ?
FRANK: Jesus , Shep . I could n't even understand half the things he told me . He said the fetus was out efore they got her here . He said they had to operate to take out the whatdycallit , the placenta and now she 's still bleeding . He said she 'd lost a lot of blood before the ambulance came , and now they 're trying to stop it , and he said a whole lot of things I did n't get , about capillaries , and he said she 's unconscious . Jesus .
SHEP: How about sitting down , Frank .
FRANK: What the hell do I want to sit down for !
SHEP: Okay . Take it easy .
FRANK: My God .
SHEP: Here , have a cigarette .
FRANK: She did it to herself , Shep .
SHEP: I 'll get some coffee .
FRANK: No . No . No .
DOCTOR: Try to sit down , Mr. Wheeler .
SHEP: Sit down Frank .
MILLY: It was the worst experience of my life . Such wonderful people . Were n't they Shep ? Poor April .
SHEP: Bart Pollock Associates .
MR. BRACE: Computers . Interesting firm .
MRS. BRACE: Have you seen him since ?
MILLY: No . Too many memories , I think . Shep 's seen him . In the city .
SHEP: Mm-hmm .
MILLY: Okay . We do n't have to . We do n't have to .
MRS. GIVINGS: I ca n't tell you how pleased I am about the little Revolutionary Road place , Howard . Remember how dreary it looked all winter ? All cold and dark and well , spooky . Creepy- crawly . And now whenever I drive past , it gives me such a lift to see it all perked up and spanking clean again , with lights in the windows . And do you know , I was just thinking , I 've loved that little house for years , and the Braces are the first really suitable people I 've ever found fo it . Really nice , congenial people , I mean .
MR. GIVINGS: Well , except for the Wheelers , you mean .
MRS. GIVINGS: Oh , I was very fond of the Wheelers ut they always were a bit a bit whimsical , for my taste . A bit neurotic . I may not have stressed it , but they were often very trying people to deal with , in many ways .
MASAMI: They say that some elementary school kid spent the night with his parents at a bed and breakfast in Izu . The kid wanted to go out and play with everybody , ight , but he didn  t want to miss the program he always used to watch back in Tokyo , so he records it on the VCR in their room . But of course the stations in Izu are different from the ones in Tokyo . In Izu , it was just an empty channel , so he should  ve recorded nothing but static . But when the kid gets back to his house and watches the tape , all of a sudden this woman comes on the screen and says
TOMOKO: Who did you hear that story from ?
MASAMI: Who ? It  s just a rumor . Everybody knows it .
TOMOKO: Youko told you ?
MASAMI: No , it wasn  t Youko
TOMOKO: The other day , I I watched this strange video .
MASAMI: Where ?
TOMOKO: With Youko and them .
MASAMI: So that  s what I  ve been hearing about you doing some double-date sleepover thing ! So , you and that guy Iwata , huh ?
TOMOKO: No , it  s not like that . Nothing happened !
MASAMI: And ? What kind of video was it ?
TOMOKO: Just weird , I can  t really explain it . Anyway , right after we finished watching it , the phone rang . Whoeve it was didn  t say anything , but still
MASAMI: Jesus .
TOMOKO: It 's cuz , you know , we 'd all heard the umors . Tomoko looks seriously over at her friend . TOMOKO That was one week ago today .
MASAMI: Waaait a minute . Are you faking me out ? Tomoko  s face suddenly breaks into a smile .
TOMOKO: Busted , huh ? They both crack up laughing .
MASAMI: Oh , my I can  t believe you !
TOMOKO: Gotcha !
MASAMI: But hang on you really stayed the night with Youko and Iwata , ight ?
TOMOKO: Oh I can  t remember .
MASAMI: You can  t remember , huh ?
MASAMI: Was it true ?
TOMOKO: Masami !
MASAMI: I  ll put her on .
TOMOKO: Yes ?
MASAMI: Oh man , I  m tellin  everybody about this tomorrow ! Tomoko shakes her head , -Don  t you dare- .
TOMOKO:  K .
YOUNG GIRL: Uh-huh .
KOMIYA: Uh , don  t look right at the camera ,
YOUNG GIRL: Sorry .
ASAKAWA: Let  s do it again .
YOUNG GIRL: What I heard was , all of a sudden this scaaarry lady comes on the screen and says ,  In one week , you will die . 
GIRL #2: I heard that if you  re watching TV late at night it  ll come on , and then your phone  ll ring .
ASAKAWA: Watching TV late at night do you know what station ?
GIRL #2: Mmmm I heard some local station , around Izu .
ASAKAWA: Izu ?
GIRL #2: Mmm-hmm .
ASAKAWA: And , do you know if anyone  s really died from watching it ? The girl flashes a look at her two friends .
YOUNG GIRL: Well , no one that we know , right ?
ASAKAWA: What is it ?
GIRL #3: I heard this from a friend of mine in high school . She said that there was this one girl who watched the video , and then died a week later . She was out on a drive with he oyfriend .
ASAKAWA: They were in a wreck ?
GIRL #3: No , their car was parked , but they were both dead inside . He oyfriend died because he  d watched the video , too . That  s what my friend said . Girl # 3 grows suddenly defensive . GIRL # 3 It  s true ! It was in the paper two or three days ago .
ASAKAWA: Do you know the name of the high school this girl went to ?
GIRL #3: No I heard this from my friend , and it didn  t happen at her school . She heard it from a friend at a different school , she said .
KOMIYA: Mrs. Asakawa ?
ASAKAWA: Hm ?
KOMIYA: Here you are .
ASAKAWA: Thanks . Komiya has a seat .
KOMIYA: This same kind of thing happened about ten years ago too , didn  t it ? Some popular young singer committed suicide , and then suddenly there was all this talk about her ghost showing up on some music show .
ASAKAWA: But I wonder what this rumor  s all about . Everyone you ask always mentions  Izu . 
KOMIYA: Maybe that  s where it all started . Hey , where was that Kuchi-sake Onna * story from again ?
ASAKAWA: Gifu , but there was some big accident out there , and that ended up being what started the rumor .
KOMIYA: A big accident ?
ASAKAWA: Mmm-hmm . Something terrible like that is going to stay in people  s minds . Sometimes the story of what happened gets twisted around , and ends up coming back as a rumor like this one . That  s what they say , at least .
KOMIYA: D  you think something like that happened out at Izu ?
ASAKAWA: Maybe . Well , anyway , I  m off . See you tomorrow .
KOMIYA: See you .
OKAZAKI: Yessir .
ASAKAWA: Okazaki , can I ask you a favor ?
OKAZAKI: Sure . Asakawa points to the newspaper .
ASAKAWA: Could you check out this article for me ? Get me some more info . ?
OKAZAKI: I guess
ASAKAWA: Good . Call me as soon as you know more , OK ?
OKAZAKI: Ma  am .
ASAKAWA: Sorry I  m late . Oh , you  ve already changed .
YOICHI: Yup . He points over to his mother  s right . YOICHI I got your clothes out for you .
ASAKAWA: Aargh , we  ve got ta hurry ! She runs into the next room to change .
YOICHI: Why did Tomo-chan die ? *
ASAKAWA: Well it looks like she was really , eally sick . She takes a seat on the bed .
YOICHI: You can die even if you  re young ?
ASAKAWA: If it  s something serious well , yes .
KOUICHI: Ah !
ASAKAWA: How is sis holding up ?
KOUICHI: She  s resting inside right now . She  s shaken up pretty badly , you know . It  s best she just take things easy for a while . Asakawa nods .
ASAKAWA: I  ll go check on auntie and them , then .
KOUICHI: OK. Ah , Yoichi . Why don  t you sit here for a little while ?
AUNT: Have you heard anything more about Tomo-chan  s death ?
ASAKAWA: No , I
AUNT: But the police have already finished their autopsy !
ASAKAWA: Well , they said there was no sign of foul play .
AUNT: That was no normal death . They haven  t once opened the casket to let us see the body . Don  t you think that  s strange ?
ASAKAWA: What are you doing up here ? You shouldn  t just walk into othe people  s rooms .
YOICHI: OK .
ASAKAWA: You go on ahead .
YOICHI:  K .
ASAKAWA: Hello ?
OKAZAKI: Uh this is Okazaki . I  ve got some more info on that article fo you . The girl was a student of the uh , Seikei School for Women in Yokahama City . Asakawa blinks at this , looks disturbed .
ASAKAWA: Thanks . She hangs up the phone .
GIRL RIGHT: They all died the same day . Youko . Tomoko . Even Iwata , he was in a motorcycle accident .
GIRL LEFT: Because they watched the video .
ASAKAWA: Video ?
GIRL LEFT: That  s what Youko said . They all watched some weird video , and after that their phone rang .
ASAKAWA: Tomoko-chan watched it , too ? Where ? Girl Left shakes her head .
GIRL LEFT: She just said they all stayed somewhere .
GIRL RIGHT: There was a girl with Tomoko when she died . She  s had to be hospitalized for shock .
GIRL MIDDLE: They say she won  t go anywhere near a television .
YOSHINO: The bodies of those found were Tsuji Youko , age 17 , a student of the Seikei School for Women , and Nomi Takehiko , age 19 , preparatory school student . Both their doors were securely locked .
ASAKAWA: Cause of death ?
YOSHINO: Couldn  t say , aside from sudden heart failure .
ASAKAWA: Drugs ?
YOSHINO: The autopsy came up negative .
ASAKAWA: Mmm-hmm .
ASAKAWA: Yeah
RYOMI: This this is where Tomoko died .
FLASHBACK: RYOMI Tomoko !
ASAKAWA: Izu
YOICHI:  K Mom ?
ASAKAWA: Hmm ?
YOICHI: Tomo-chan watched some cursed video !
ASAKAWA: What did you say ? You are not to speak of this at school , do you hear me ?
YOICHI: I won  t . I  m going to school now .
ASAKAWA: There  s no way
ASAKAWA: `` My dad is fat . My mom is fat . That  s why I  m fat , too . '' She smiles in spite of herself .
CLERK: Room for one ?
ASAKAWA: Um , actually I  m here on business .
CLERK: Uh , hang on just a minute .
ASAKAWA: That The clerk looks up .
CLERK: Hmm ?
ASAKAWA: That ! What tape is that ? The clerk reaches out for it , grabs it .
CLERK: This ? Hmm
ASAKAWA: One week
RYUJI: Yoichi  s in elementary school already , is he ?
ASAKAWA: His first year . What about you , Ryuji ? How have you been ecently ?
RYUJI: Same as always .
ASAKAWA: And money is ?
RYUJI: I  m teaching at university .
ASAKAWA: That  s right .
RYUJI: So if I watch it too , that phone ove there He gestures with his mug RYUJI should ring .
ASAKAWA: Ryuji , four people have already died . On the same day !
RYUJI: Well , why don  t you try calling an exorcist ?
ASAKAWA: Take my picture . Ryuji raises the camera to his eye .
RYUJI: Turn this way .
ASAKAWA: Hurry up and take it .
RYUJI: It  s over . Asakawa re-enters her apartment .
ASAKAWA: There  s the guest list from the cottage to look into and the possibility of someone hacking into the local station  s broadcast signals .
OKAZAKI: Here  s that guest list you wanted .
ASAKAWA: Oh , thanks .
OKAZAKI: What are you gon na do with this ?
ASAKAWA: Uh sorry , I  m working on something personal .
RYUJI: Hey .
ASAKAWA: What happened to you ?
RYUJI: Nothing .
ASAKAWA: I don  t think any of the guests on the list brought the tape with them . I couldn  t confirm it face-to-face of course , but even over the phone I got the feeling they were all being upfront with me .
RYUJI: How about the other angle ? Pirate signals or Asakawa shakes her head .
ASAKAWA: There  re no traces of any illegal television signals being broadcast around Izu .
RYUJI: Asakawa .
ASAKAWA: No
RYUJI: So , what does that mean ? Asakawa lets out a short sigh .
ASAKAWA: Well , if the person who made this is a pro , there  d be a way around that , I guess , but still
RYUJI: Volcanic eruption Eruption where ?
ASAKAWA: This is gon na be impossible to figure out on just a regular TV screen , don  t you think ?
RYUJI: Come on in .
MAI: Nice to meet you . I  m Takano .
ASAKAWA: Asakawa . *
MAI: Sensei , the people from the publishing company called about the deadline on your thesis again .
RYUJI: What  re they talkin  to you about it for ?
MAI: Because they can never get a hold of you .
RYUJI: Ask them to wait another week .
MAI: Sensei , ask them yourself , please .
RYUJI: OK , OK .
ASAKAWA: He  s used to it
RYUJI: Whoever made this had to have left some kind of clue behind . They  re probably waiting for us to find it .
TAPE: Shoooomonnn bakkkkkarrri toou oooouuuukonn ga kuuru zouuu
RYUJI: Shoumon bakkari , boukon ga kuru zo . Did you hear that , too ?
ASAKAWA: What does that mean ?
RYUJI: I  m gon na check it out .
ASAKAWA: Hello ?
RYUJI: Oshima . And the site of ou  eruption  is Mt . Mihara .
ASAKAWA: Yoichi ? I  m gon na be a little late tonight , honey . Ryuji looks over his shoulder at her , scowls .
RYUJI: Has your newspaper got someone out there at Oshima ?
ASAKAWA: I think so . There should be a correspondent out there .
RYUJI: I need you to find out , and let me know how to get hold of him . Tonight .
ASAKAWA: What do you think you  re ?
RYUJI: You  ve only got four days left , Asakawa ! Your newspaper contact and I can handle this from here on out . You just stay with Yoichi .
YOICHI: Grandpa !
KOUICHI: Whoa , there ! So , you made it , huh ? Caption  September 17th . Friday . 
ASAKAWA: Yoichi says he  s looking forward to doing some fishing with you .
KOUICHI: Is that so ?
YOICHI: C  mon grandpa , let  s go !
KOUICHI: OK , OK. We  ll get our things together and then we can go .
YOICHI: That was your fault , grandpa . Asakawa  s father laughs .
KOUICHI: Well , whaddya say we try again ?
YOICHI: How was work , mommy ?
ASAKAWA: Hello ?
RYUJI: Her name is Yamamura Shizuko . She committed suicide forty years ago y throwing herself into Mt . Mihara .
ASAKAWA: Have you got anything else ?
KOUJI: What  s happened ? Asakawa shakes her head .
ASAKAWA: Nothing . I just had some things left over from work .
YOICHI: Tomo-chan Asakawa freezes , her eyes wide .
RYUJI: I should  ve been more careful . When I was at your place that day , I could feel something there . I thought it was just ecause of the video
ASAKAWA: You mean that Tomoko
RYUJI: That  s not Tomoko . Not anymore .
ASAKAWA: Yoichi he can see them too , can  t he ? Ryuji nods his head , lowers it sadly .
RYUJI: I wonder Asakawa turns to Ryuji suddenly .
ASAKAWA: How did the rumors about the video even start in the first place ?
RYUJI: This kind of thing it doesn  t start by one person telling a story . It  s more like everyone  s fear just takes on a life of its own .
ASAKAWA: Fear
RYUJI: Or maybe it  s not fear at all . Maybe it  s what we were secretly hoping for all along .
ASAKAWA: Mr. Hayatsu ?
HAYATSU: Aah , welcome ! You must be tired after your long trip . Please , this way .
ASAKAWA: Why did Yamamura Shizuko commit suicide ?
RYUJI: She was taking a real beating in the press , being called a fraud and all sorts of names . After a while she just lost it .
ASAKAWA: He was driven out of the university , wasn  t he ? Ryuji nods .
RYUJI: This Professor Ikuma convinces Shizuko to go to Tokyo with him , where he uses her in a series of demonstrations meant to prove the existence of ESP . At first she  s the darling of the press , but the next thing you know they  re knocking her down , calling her a fraud . Hmph . Forty years later , the media still hasn  t changed that much . Asakawa continues , ignoring Ryuji  s barb .
ASAKAWA: I  ve heard this story . But I  m sure I remember hearing that somebody died at one of those demonstrations .
RYUJI: After getting kicked out of university , Ikuma just vanished , and no one  s been able to get hold of him since . He  s probably not even alive anymore .
ASAKAWA: But , why even try looking for him ?
RYUJI: Because he  s supposed to have had a child with Shizuko . A daughter .
HAYATSU: Hello ?
KAZUE: Thank you . She turns to Asakawa and Ryuji . KAZUE Welcome .
HAYATSU: Well , I  ll be off then .
KAZUE: Please . Ryuji and Asakawa begin removing their shoes .
RYUJI: Separate , please .
KAZUE:  Sir .
ASAKAWA: Please ! If you could just answe a few questions , about Shizuko
YAMAMURA: I got nuthin  to say .
ASAKAWA: It  s about Shizuko  s daughter . The old man says nothing .
YAMAMURA: You  re wasting your time .
RYUJI: Aren  t you gon na eat ?
ASAKAWA: Umm
RYUJI: Hm ?
ASAKAWA: You  ll stay with me won  t you ? When it  s time for me to die .
RYUJI: Oh , stop it .
ASAKAWA: You  ll stay , won  t you ? If you stayed , maybe you  d learn something that could help Yoichi
RYUJI: I said stop it ! Have you forgotten There was a girl with Tomoko when she died ? That girl  s now in a mental institution . Who knows what could happen .
ASAKAWA: But you could stay with me , Ryuji . You  d be OK .
RYUJI: Why , because I  m already not ight in the head ?
ASAKAWA: Stop it !
RYUJI: We still have two days left
KAZUE: It  s about Miss Shizuko .
RYUJI: Is this Professor Ikuma ?
KAZUE: yes . This picture is from before I  d entered the household . She pauses a moment . KAZUE I should go now .
VOICE: Shoumon bakkari boukon ga kuru zo
YAMAMURA: Y  all  d do best to be off soon . Sea  s probably gon na be rough tonight .
RYUJI: What kind of a child was Shizuko ?
YAMAMURA: Shizuko was different . She  d come out here by herself ever  day an  just stare out at the ocean . The fishermen all took a dislikin  to her . Ocean  s an unlucky place for us , y  see every year it swallows up more of our own . You keep starin  out at somethin  ike that
RYUJI: Shoumon bakkari shite  ru to , boukon ga kuru zo .  If you keep playing in the water , the monster will come for you.  Yamamura looks at Ryuji , surprised .
YAMAMURA: Please leave ! Now ! Ryuji stands , takes hold of Yamamura  s arm .
RYUJI: I  ve got a little of that ability myself . It was you who spread the word about Shizuko , wasn  t it ? And you who first contacted Professor Ikuma ?
YAMAMURA: What  re you ?
RYUJI: You thought you  d be able to make some money off her . You even got some , from one of the newspapers .
YAMAMURA: Leave me the hell alone !
RYUJI: Tell us about Shizuko  s daughter . Who was she ?
YAMAMURA: I don  t know !
RYUJI: She was there , with Shizuko . She had to be .
RYUJI: You were there !
JUDGE: Match .
REPORTER: Faker ! This is nothing but trickery , and the lowest form of trickery at that .
REPORTER #2: That  s right ! Professor Ikuma , you  re being fooled !
REPORTER #3: What  s happened ?
REPORTER #4: He  s dead !
REPORTER #5: Witch !
SHIZUKO: Sadako ? Was it you ?
RYUJI: Sadako ? !
YAMAMURA: She  s a devil spawn .
ASAKAWA: That  s right . After Yamamura Shizuko committed suicide , Professor Ikuma took the daughter and ran . No , no one knows where they went . That  s why I need -you- to find out where they are . Even if the professor  s dead , Sadako should still be in her forties . I  ll explain it all later , but right now just hurry !
RYUJI: Sadako  s probably already dead . She could kill people with just a thought , emember ? Her mother wasn  t even close to that .
ASAKAWA: Well , what about that video ? If Sadako  s dead then who made it ?
RYUJI: Nobody made it . It wasn  t made at all . That video is the pure , physical manifestation of Sadako  s hatred .
HAYATSU: It  s no good . With the typhoon coming in , all ships are temporarily staying docked .
RYUJI: What about the fishing boats ? Tell their captains I  ll pay .
HAYATSU: Fishing boats ? Sir , without knowing whether this typhoon is going to hit us or not , I think it  d be better to wait and see how things turn
RYUJI: Fine ! I  ll try searching myself !
HAYATSU: Mr . Takayama ! ? Mr. Takayama
ASAKAWA: Hello ?
RYUJI: And we  ve got no way of going back .
HAYATSU: It  s too dangerous ! The thought of anybody going out in this weather
YAMAMURA: Sadako is callin  y  all , reckon . Mayhap to drag you down under the water .
RYUJI: Please . Take us out .
ASAKAWA: It  s funny . I  m not afraid at all .
RYUJI: Sadako probably died back out there at Izu , before the rental cottages were ever built .
ASAKAWA: So , Sadako was Professor Ikuma  s daughter ?
RYUJI: Ikuma smuggled her out in secret . His relationship with Shizuko was already a scandal , and one of the easons he got drummed out of the university We  ve got ta find Sadako  s body .
ASAKAWA: Is that going to break the curse ? Will Yoichi be all right ?
RYUJI: It  s all we  ve got left to try .
ASAKAWA: Just one more day Ryuji puts his arm around Asakawa .
RYUJI: We made it . Maybe Sadako doesn  t have it out for us after all . Long pause as Mr. Yamamura says nothing .
YAMAMURA: Shizuko she used to -speak- to the ocean , just ramble away . One time I hid , listenin  to one of he conversations . Mr. Yamamura pauses again . YAMAMURA And it weren  t in no human language .
ASAKAWA: Yoichi ? It  s mommy . I just called to say I  ll be coming home tomorrow . Ryuji shoots a look at her over his shoulder .
RYUJI: What time was it when you first watched the video ? Asakawa glances at her watch .
ASAKAWA: Seven or eight minutes past seven . PM . No more than ten minutes past .
RYUJI: If the rumors are true , that time is gon na be our deadline . Asakawa buckles up as Ryuji steps on the gas .
ASAKAWA: The well
ASAKAWA: Her own father !
RYUJI: It was Ikuma who put this lid on . And Sadako  s still inside .
ASAKAWA: It  s already six !
RYUJI: I know ! Hurry up and TAKE IT UP ! !
ASAKAWA: But , we don  t even know if it  s doing any good
RYUJI: And what about Yoichi , huh ? Is his mother not coming to pick him up after all ?
ASAKAWA: Where are you ? Please , come out .
RYUJI: Hey ! Asakawa ! It  s already 10 minutes past seven ! We did it !
ASAKAWA: Why would Ikuma have killed her ? His own daughter
RYUJI: Maybe she wasn  t his daughter at all .
ASAKAWA: What ?
RYUJI: Maybe her father wasn  t even human .
ASAKAWA: thank you .
RYUJI: That girl
GUARD: Are you a resident here , ma  am ?
ASAKAWA: I  m Takayama Ryuji  s wife !
GUARD: I  m sorry ma  am , but they  ve already taken the body away . Asakawa  s spins around , eyes wide . Body ?
ASAKAWA: What happened ? Mai shakes her head dreamily .
MAI: When I got here he was just lying there
ASAKAWA: Did he say anything to you ? About a videotape ?
MAI: His face
ASAKAWA: I was the only one to break Sadako  s curse . Ryuji why ? Something I did that you didn  t Something I did that you didn  t
JACK: Hello . Hello . Good evening , ma'am .
BEAT: Ma'am ?
JACK: Oh , ah , excuse me , can you tell me where I am ?
NORTH: Yes !
YETI: Arghbal
NORTH: Ach !
YETI: Warga blarghgha !
NORTH: What ? The Globe ?
NORTH: Shoo with your pointy heads . Why are you always under boot ?
SHRUGS SHOULDERS: Wardle bawddrel .
NORTH: Can it be ? Dingle !
PRESSES IT: Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 6 .
BEAT: Des Moines , we 've got a cuspid at 23 Maple . Head out !
GASPS: Look how she flossed !
BUNNYMUND: Ah , it 's freezing .
NORTH: Sandy , thank you for coming .
TOOTH: Pitch ? Pitch Black ? Here ? !
NORTH: Yes ! There was black sand covering the globe .
BUNNYMUND: What , whatwhat do you mean black sand ?
NORTH: And then a shadow !
BUNNYMUND: Hold on , hold on , I thought you said you saw Pitch .
NORTH: Well , ah , not exactly Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 10 .
BUNNYMUND: Not exactly ? Can you believe this guy ?
NORTH: Look , he is up to something very ad . I feel it , in my belly .
BUNNYMUND: Hang on , hang on , you mean to say , you summoned me here THREE DAYS BEFORE EASTER - because of you elly ? Mate , if I did this to you three days before Christmas
TOOTH: Argentina . Priority alert ! A atch of bicuspids in Buenos Aires .
NORTH: Please . Bunny . Easter is not Christmas .
BUNNYMUND: Here we go
LAUGHS: North , I , I do n't have time fo this . I 've still got two million eggs to finish up .
BUNNYMUND: Look , mate , I 'm dealing with perishables . Right . You 've got all year to prepare .
TOOTH: Pittsburg , boy eight , two molars . Saltwater taffy .
NORTH: Why are rabbits always so nervous .
BUNNYMUND: And why are you always such a lowhard !
NORTH: Tooth ! Ca n't you see we 're trying to argue .
TOOTH: Sorry , not all of us get to work one night a year . Am I right , Sandy ?
BUNNYMUND: Come on , mate , Pitch went out with the dark ages . We made sure of that - remember ?
NORTH: Aah ! Man in Moon ! Sandy , why did n't you say something ?
BUNNYMUND: It is Pitch . North pats his belly and gives Bunny a look .
NORTH: Mannywhat must we do ? Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 13 .
TOOTH: Ah , guys , you know what this means ?
NORTH: He 's choosing a new Guardian .
BUNNYMUND: What ? ! Why ?
NORTH: Must be big deal ! Manny thinks we need help !
BUNNYMUND: Since when do we need help ? !
TOOTH: I wonder who it 's gon na be ?
BUNNYMUND: Please not the groundhog , please not the groundhog .
NORTH: Jack Frost .
BUNNYMUND: Ah , I take it back ! The Groundhog 's fine ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 14 .
TOOTH: Well , ah , as long he helps to ahto protect the children , ight ?
BUNNYMUND: Jack Frost ! ? He does n't care about children ! All he does is freeze water pipes and mess with my egg hunts . Right ? He 's an irresponsible , selfish
NORTH: Guardian . This stops Bunnymund in his tracks .
BUNNYMUND: Jack Frost is many things , but he is not a Guardian .
RUSSIAN BOY: ( tongue stuck to frozen
ICE: Aahhhhh !
JACK: Ah , now that , that was fun .
BEAT: Hey wind
JACK: Take me home !
JAMIE: Whoa , whoa .
JACK: Huh , that looks interesting . Good ook ?
JAMIE: Hey guys , wait up ! Are you guys coming to the egg hunt Sunday ?
CALEB: Yeah , free candy !
CLAUDE: I hope we can find the eggs with all this snow !
CALEB: Stop !
CLAUDE: No , you stop ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 17 .
JAMIE: Whoa , it says here that they found Big Foot hair samples and DNA , in Michigan . That 's like , supe close !
CLAUDE: Here we go again .
JAMIE: You saw the video too Claude , he 's out there !
CALEB: That 's what you said about aliens .
CLAUDE: And the Easter Bunny .
JAMIE: Wow , the Easter Bunny is real !
JACK: Oh he 's real alright . Real annoying , real grumpy , and really full of himself .
CLAUDE: Come on , you guys believe anything .
SOPHIE: EASTER BUNNY ! HOP-HOP-HOP ! Ow ! Sophie begins to cry .
JAMIE: Mom ! Sophie fell again !
JAMIE'S MOM: You okay , Soph ?
CLAUDE: Are we sledding or what ?
JAMIE'S MOM: Jamie , hat ? We do n't want Jack Frost nipping at your nose .
JAMIE: Who 's Jack Frost ?
JAMIE'S MOM: No one , honey . It 's just an expression .
JACK: Hey .
JAMIE: Okay , who threw that ?
JACK: Well , was n't bigfoot kiddo .
MONTY: Ow !
PIPPA: Jamie Bennett ! No fair !
JAMIE: You struck first !
CLAUDE: Oh !
JACK: Free for all !
CUPCAKE: Grrrrrrrrrrrr
PIPPA: Crud , I hit Cupcake .
MONTY: She hit Cupcake .
CLAUDE: You hit Cupcake ?
CALEB: Did you throw that ?
MONTY: No .
PIPPA: Was n't me .
JAMIE: Hey , come on . Stop !
CLAUDE: You ca n't catch me .
JACK: Ooh , little slippery !
JAMIE: Whooaaooah ! ! ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 21 .
KIDS: Whoaaa . Jamie , watch out ! Stop !
JAMIE: Aha , whoa !
KIDS: Jamie ! Turn , turn ! That 's the street ! What are you doing ? Stop ! There 's traffic !
JAMIE: Whoa !
JACK: Whoa , do n't worry kid , I gotcha .
JAMIE: Ahhhh . No , no , no , no
JACK: Keep up with me kid ! Take a left .
JAMIE: Whoa , no , no , no , no
JACK: Yeah !
JAMIE: Whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa
JACK: There you go !
JAMIE: No ! No !
JACK: Whoa .
JAMIE: AAAAHHHHHHHH !
JACK: Yeah ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 23 .
KIDS: Wow , that looks serious ! Jamie ! Jamie , are you alright ? Is he okay ?
JAMIE: Whoaaa ! Did you guys see that ? It was amazing ! I slid - I did a jump and I slid under a car-ERF ! !
JACK: Whoops .
KIDS: Ooooh !
JAMIE: Cool ! A Tooth !
KIDS: Dude , that means cash ! Tooth Fairy cash ! I love the Tooth Fairy !
JACK: Oh , no
KIDS: That 's totally awesome . You lucky ug ! Lucky !
JACK: No !
JAMIE: I got ta put this under my pillow !
KIDS: I wish I lost my tooth . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 24 .
JACK: Ah , wait a minute ! Come on , hold on , hold on ! What about all that fun we just had ? That was n't the Tooth Fairy , that was me !
KIDS: I lost two teeth in one day once - emember that ? ! What are you gon na spend your money on ? What are you gon na buy ? How much do you think she 's going to leave ?
JACK: What 's a guy got ta do to get a little attention around here !
CUPCAKE: ( walla ; mocking he
FRIENDS: `` Oh , I 'm cold , I 'm cold , I 'm co- old . ''
WALLA: Somebody take a picture . Hey , stop ! That was really awesome .
JAMIE: and then BAM ! The sofa hit me , and , and see ? Ah hoo hay ow !
JAMIE'S MOM: Alright you , tooth under you pillow ?
JAMIE: Yeah . I 'm ready .
JAMIE'S MOM: Now do n't stay up trying to see her , Jamie , or she wo n't come .
JAMIE: But I can do it this time ! You wan na help me , Soph ? We can hide and see the Tooth Fairy ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 26 .
SOPHIE: Hide , hide , hide , hide !
JAMIE'S MOM: Uh uh , straight to bed now , mister .
JAMIE: Mom
JACK: If there 's something I 'm doing wrong , can you , can you just tell me what it is ?
NO RESPONSE: Because I 've tried everything , and no one ever sees me .
JACK: Right on time , Sandman .
PITCH: Ohhhh , I thought I heard the clippity-clop of a unicorn . What an adorable dream ! His face softens , seemingly moved
JACK: Whoa !
WALLA: Did you leave the windows open again ? The garage door is wide open .
BUNNYMUND: Been a long time . Blizzard of 68 , I elieve ? Easter Sunday , was n't it ? Jack is completely bewildered
JACK: Bunny ? You 're not still mad about thatare yah ?
BUNNYMUND: Yes .
BEAT: Fellas
JACK: Hey !
YETI: Durbha wahla . Jack has been snatched up by two huge YETIS .
JACK: Put me down ! What the
YETI: Durtal bardla burdlew .
BUNNYMUND: Me ?
LAUGHS: Not on your nelly . See you back at the pole . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 30 .
YETIS: Bwardla arghl .
JACK: Ahhhhhhhhh !
TOOTH: Walla Walla , Washington . We 've got a trampoline mishap at 1340 Ginge Lane .
NORTH: Quiet .
JACK: Wow , you got ta be kidding me .
NORTH: I hope the yetis treated you well ?
JACK: Oh , yeah . I love being shoved in a sack and tossed through a magic portal .
NORTH: Oh , good ! That was my idea ! You know Bunny , obviously .
JACK: Obviously .
NORTH: And the Tooth Fairy ?
TOOTH: Hello , Jack . I 've heard a lot about you . And your teeth .
JACK: My , my what ?
TOOTH: Open up ! Are they really as white as they say ? Yes !
GASP: Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 32 .
TOOTH: Girls , pull yourselves together Let 's not disgrace the uniform .
NORTH: And Sandman . Sandy ! Sandy ! Wake up !
JACK: Hey ! Ho ! Anyone wan na tell me why I 'm here ?
TO OTHERS: I musta done something really bad to get you four together .
JACK: Am I on the naughty list ?
NORTH: On naughty list ? You hold record ! But no matter . We overlook . Now we are wiping clean the slate .
JACK: How come ?
BUNNYMUND: Ah , good question .
NORTH: How come ? I tell you how come ! Because nowyou are Guardian ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 33 .
JACK: What are you doing ! Get , get that offa me !
NORTH: This is the best part !
JACK: Huh ?
NORTH: Of course you do ! Music !
JACK: No music ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 34 .
BUNNYMUND: Yeah , that 's exactly what I said !
TOOTH: JackI do n't think you understand what it is we do .
NORTH: A child who believes . And good o ad , naughty or nice , we protect them .
BEAT: Toothfingers out of mouth .
REMOVES FINGERS: Oh , sorry . They 're beautiful .
NORTH: Okay , no more wishy-washy ! Pitch is out there doing who knows what !
JACK: You mean the Boogeyman ?
NORTH: Yes ! When Pitch threatens us , he threatens them as well . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 35 . North points to the lights on the globe .
JACK: All the more reason to pick someone more qualified !
NORTH: Pick ? You think we pick ? No , you were chosen like we were all chosen . By Man in Moon . Jack turns and looks to the group .
JACK: What ?
TOOTH: Last night , Jack . He chose you .
BUNNYMUND: Maybe .
JACK: The Man in the Moon , he talks to you ?
NORTH: You see , you can not say no . It is destiny .
JACK: But why , why would n't he tell me that himself ?
EXASPERATED EXHALE: After 300 years this is his answer ? To spend eternity like you guys cooped up in some , some hideout thinking of , of new ways to bribe kids ? No no , that 's not for me . No offense .
BUNNYMUND: How is that not offensive ?
JACK: Uhh , you ever hear of a snow day ? I know it 's no hard-boiled egg , but kids like what I do .
BUNNYMUND: But none of 'em believe in you . Do they ? You see , you 're invisible , mate . It 's like you do n't even exist .
TOOTH: Bunny ! Enough !
JACK: No , the kangaroo 's right .
BUNNYMUND: The , the what what 'd you call me ? I am not a kangaroo , mate .
JACK: Oh . And this whole time I thought you were . If you 're not a kangaroo , what are you ?
BUNNYMUND: I 'm a bunny . The Easter Bunny . People believe in me .
NORTH: Jack . Walk with me .
JACK: It 's nothing personal , North . What you all do , it 's just , it 's not my thing .
NORTH: Man in Moon says it is your thing . We will see !
JACK: Slow down , wouldja ? I 've been trying to bust in here for years , I want a good look .
NORTH: What do you mean , `` bust in ? ''
JACK: Oh , do n't worry , I never got past the yetis .
YETI: Rwwarrrrrr .
JACK: Oh , hey Phil .
NORTH: Keep up , Jack ! Keep up ! North charges ahead .
JACK: Whoa !
BEAT: I always thought the elves made the toys .
NORTH: We just let them believe that .
JACK: Ah , no , thanks .
NORTH: Now we get down to tacks of brass !
JACK: Tacks of brass ?
NORTH: Who are you , Jack Frost ? What is your center ? North pokes Jack in the chest .
JACK: My center ?
NORTH: If Man in Moon chose you to be a Guardian , you must have something very special inside .
JACK: You are downright jolly .
NORTH: Ah , but not just jolly Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 40 .
JACK: There 's a tiny wooden baby ?
NORTH: Look closer . What do you see ? Jack holds it up to examine it .
JACK: You have big eyes ?
NORTH: Yes ! Big eyes . Very big . Because they are full ! Of wonder ! That is my center . It is what I was born with . Eyes that have always seen the wonder in everything !
MORE: Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 41 .
JACK: I do n't know .
BUNNYMUND: We have a problem , mate ! Trouble at the Tooth Palace .
TO YETIS: Boys , ship shape . As soon as impossible .
JACK: North , North ! I told you , I 'm not going with you guys ! There is no way I 'm climbing into some rickety old
NORTH: Hey ! Moi deti , moi deti . Quiet , quiet .
JACK: Okay , one ride , but that 's it .
NORTH: Everyone loves the sleigh .
BUNNYMUND: I think my tunnels might be faster , mate . And um , and safer .
NORTH: Ah , get in . Buckle up ! Bunny desperately looks around his seat .
BUNNYMUND: Whoa , whoa , whoa , where are the loody seatbelts ? !
NORTH: That was just expression ! North turns to one of the Yetis .
BUNNYMUND: Ohhhhhh no !
NORTH: I hope you like the loopty loops !
BUNNYMUND: I hope you like carrots .
NORTH: Here we go !
JACK: WOOO-HOOOOOO ! ! ! ! ! !
NORTH: Klasno ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 44 .
JACK: Whoa !
BUNNYMUND: Ah , rack off you bloody show pony !
NORTH: Hold on everyone , I know a shortcut .
BUNNYMUND: Oh strewth , I knew we should have taken the tunnels . North holds a snow globe up to his face .
NORTH: I say , Tooth Palace .
BUNNYMUND: Whoa !
JACK: They 're taking the tooth fairies !
NORTH: Here , take over !
BUNNYMUND: Huh ?
JACK: Hyah !
NORTH: Yah !
BUNNYMUND: They 're stealing the teeth !
NORTH: Jack , look out ! Jack pulls the reins
JACK: Aaaahhhh !
NORTH: Tooth ! Are you alright ?
TOOTH: They , they took my fairies ! And the teeth ! All of them ! Everything is gone ! Everything .
PITCH: The Big Four , all in one place . I 'm a little star-struck .
BEAT: Did you like my show on the globe , North ? Got you all together , did n't I ?
TOOTH: Pitch , you have got thirty seconds to return my fairies !
PITCH: You 'll stick a quarter under my pillow ?
NORTH: Why are you doing this ?
PITCH: Maybe I want what you have . To be elieved in .
BUNNYMUND: Maybe that 's where you belong .
PITCH: Ah , go suck an egg , rabbit !
LAUGHS: Since when are you all so chummy ?
JACK: We 're not .
PITCH: Oh good .
BUNNYMUND: Pitch ! You shadow sneaking rat- ag ! Come here !
TOOTH: Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh !
PITCH: Whoa ! Hey , easy , girl . Easy .
BUNNYMUND: What fear ? Of you ! ? No one 's been afraid of you since the Dark Ages !
PITCH: Oh , the Dark Ages .
NOSTALGIC: Everyone frightened . Miserable . Such happy times for me . Oh , the power I wielded !
PITCH: Oh look , it 's happening already .
JACK: What is ? Tooth 's eyes widen in shock .
TOOTH: They , they do n't believe in me anymore . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 51 .
PITCH: Did n't they tell you , Jack ? It 's great being a Guardian but there 's a catch . If enough kids stop believing , everything you friends protect - wonder , hopes and dreams - it all goes away . And little by little , so do they .
NORTH: He 's gone .
JACK: I 'm sorry , about the fairies .
TOOTH: You should 've seen them . They put up such a fight .
JACK: Why would Pitch take the teeth ?
TOOTH: It 's not the teeth he wanted . It 's the memories inside them .
JACK: What do you mean ?
TOOTH: That 's why we collect the teeth , Jack . They hold the most important memories of childhood .
JACK: My memories ?
TOOTH: From when you were young . Before you became Jack Frost .
JACK: But , I was n't anyone before I was Jack Frost . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 53 .
TOOTH: Of course you were . We were all someone before we were chosen .
JACK: What ?
NORTH: You should 've seen Bunny .
BUNNYMUND: Hey , I told you never to mention that !
JACK: That night at the pondI just , why I assumedAre you saying , are you saying I had a life before that ? With a home ? And a family ?
TOOTH: You really do n't remember ?
JACK: All these years , and the answers were right here . If I find my memories , then I 'll know why I 'm here .
TO TOOTH: You have to show me .
TOOTH: II ca n't , Jack . Pitch has them .
JACK: Then we have to get them back !
TOOTH: Oh no ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 54 .
NORTH: No ! No ! No such thing as too late !
GETS IDEA: Wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait , wait . Idea ! ! HAHH ! !
TOOTH: What ?
NORTH: We get teeth ! Children keep elieving in you !
TOOTH: We 're talking seven continents ! Millions of kids !
NORTH: Give me break ! You know how many toys I deliver in one night ?
BUNNYMUND: And eggs I hide in one day ? North turns to Jack .
NORTH: And Jack , if you help us , we will get you your memories .
JACK: I 'm in .
NORTH: Quickly ! Quickly !
BUNNYMUND: Here we go , here we go Jack zips into view , calling out to Bunny .
JACK: Hop to it rabbit , I 'm five teeth ahead !
BUNNYMUND: Yeah right , look , I 'd tell you to stay outta my way , but really what 's the point because you wo n't be able to keep up anyway .
JACK: Is that a challenge , cottontail ?
BUNNYMUND: Oh , you do n't wan na race a rabbit , mate .
NORTH: A race ? Is it a race ? ?
TOOTH: Four bicuspids over there ! An incisor two blocks east ! Is that a molar ? They 're EVERYWHERE !
TOOTH: Ow !
JACK: Ah , you okay ?
TOOTH: Finesorry , it 's been a really long time since I 've been out in the field .
JACK: How long is a long time ?
TOOTH: Ah , four hundred forty yearsgive or take .
JACK: Hmm
NORTH: TWINS Yipa ! !
BUNNYMUND: Jackpot !
NORTH: Is piece of pie !
BUNNYMUND: Ow !
NORTH: That 's my tooth ! Sandy ! Sandy !
TOOTH: Whoa , whoa , whoa ! Take it easy there , champ ! He 's one of us ! Part of the European division . Ca va ? The mouse gestures back angrily .
BUNNYMUND: Huh ?
BUNNYMUND: Crikey !
JACK: Yes !
BUNNYMUND: Haha ! Ho , ho , ho !
TOOTH: Wow ! You guys collect teeth and leave gifts as fast as my fairies .
PITCH: The lightswhy are n't they going out ?
JACK: Kids , huh ?
TOOTH: This was always the part I liked most - seeing the kids .
BEAT: Why did I ever stop doing this ? A beat ; Jack sees how much it means to her .
JACK: It 's a little different up close , huh ? Tooth gives him a look he 's right .
TOOTH: Thanks for being here , Jack . I wish I had known about your memory , I could 've helped you . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 63 .
JACK: Yeah , well , look let 's just get you taken care of . Then it 's Pitch 's turn , huh ?
NORTH: Here you are !
TOOTH: SSHHHHHHHH ! !
NORTH: Oh , what gives slowpokes ! ? Jamie is still sound asleep .
TOOTH: Believed in .
NORTH: Haha ! That 's what I want to hear .
JACK: You think I need help to beat a unny ? Check it out , Pete Cottontail . Jack lifts up his sack of teeth . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 64 .
BUNNYMUND: You call that a bag of choppers ? Now that 's a bag of choppers .
NORTH: Gentlemen ! Gentlemen ! This is about Tooth . It 's not a competition ! But if it was I win . YEEEEEHAAAHH ! And he strikes a Russian dancing pose as
SURPRISED: Santa Claus ?
TOOTH: Surprise !
GIGGLING: We came !
JACK: He can see us ?
BUNNYMUND: Most of us .
TOOTH: Shhh ! You guys , he 's still awake .
BUNNYMUND: Sandy ! Knock him out !
JAMIE: Huh ? Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 65 .
BUNNYMUND: With the Dreamsand , ya gumbies .
JAMIE: No , stop that 's the Easter Bunny . What are you doing , Abbey ? Down ! The dog is nose to nose with Bunnymund .
BUNNYMUND: Alright , nobody panic .
JACK: But that 's a um , that 's a greyhound . Do you know what greyhounds do to rabbits ?
BUNNYMUND: I think it 's a pretty safe bet he 's never met a rabbit like me -
BUNNYMUND: Crikey .
JAMIE: Stop ! Sit !
NORTH: Sandy , Sandy ! The dog jumps past North , knocking him back .
TOOTH: Hey , this is not proper Tooth Fairy ehavior !
BUNNYMUND: Oh no .
NORTH: Candy canes
JAMIE: Whoaaaaaaaaaa !
JACK: Whoops
SHOUTS: Sandy , c'mon ! We can find Pitch .
SOPHIE: Pretty !
NORTH: Whuh-huh ?
JACK: Wahooo !
BEAT: Haha ! Yes !
JACK: Waaahahoooo !
PITCH: Frost ?
BEAT: This is n't your fight , Jack .
JACK: You made it my fight when you stole those teeth . Pitch regards him curiously .
PITCH: Teeth ? Why do you care about the teeth ?
JACK: Remind me not to get on your bad side .
PITCH: Okay , easy ! You ca n't blame me fo trying , Sandy . You do n't know what it 's like to be weak and hated . It was stupid of me to mess with you dreams . So I 'll tell you what-
JACK: You take the ones on the left , I 'll take the ones on the right ?
PITCH: Boo !
NORTH: Ah !
BUNNYMUND: Get outta my warren ! Huh ?
NORTH: Ha . Ha . Ha . Come on !
JACK: Aaaaaaaah !
BUNNYMUND: You might want to duck .
JACK: We got ta help Sandy !
NORTH: Hyah !
JACK: Noooo !
NORTH: Jack !
NORTH: Hurry , hurry !
NORTH: Sandy
PITCH: AAAHH ! ! ! !
NORTH: Jack ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 76 .
TOOTH: Jack , how did you do that ?
REGAINING CONSCIOUSNESS: I , I did n't know I could .
PITCH: Finally ! Someone who knows how to have a little FUN !
NORTH: Are you alright ?
JACK: I just , I wish I could 've done something .
NORTH: Done something ? Jack , you stood up to Pitch . You saved us .
JACK: But Sandy wo
NORTH: ( putting his hand on
JACK'S SHOULDER: Would be proud of what you did . Jack pulls back his hoodie and stands up .
JACK: But how can I know who I am , until I find out who I was ?
NORTH: You will . I feel it , in my belly .
TOOTH: Look how fast they 're going out .
JACK: It 's fear . He 's tipped the alance .
BUNNYMUND: Hey , buck up ya sad-sacks . Come on ! We can still turn this around !
MORE: Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 78 .
NORTH: Bunny is right .
TO BUNNY: As much as it pains me to say old friend , this time Easter is more important than Christmas !
BUNNYMUND: Hey ! Did everyone hear that ? !
NORTH: We must hurry to the Warren . Everyone , to the sleigh !
BUNNY: Ohh no , mate . My warren my rules . Buckle up .
NORTH: Shostakovich !
BUNNYMUND: Welcome to the warren
JACK: Sophie ?
SOPHIE: Elf , elf , elf !
BUNNYMUND: What is SHE doing HERE ! ! ? North looks down at his coat pocket - ooops .
NORTH: Ah , snow globe .
BUNNYMUND: Crikey ! Somebody do something !
JACK: Do n't look at me , I 'm invisible , emember ? Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 80 .
TOOTH: Do n't worry , Bunny . I bet she 's a fairy fan . It 's okay little one .
SOPHIE: Pretty !
TOOTH: Awww ! You know what , I got something for you . Here it is . Look at all the pretty teeth with little blood and gum on them . Sophie runs away screaming .
JACK: Blood and gums ? When was the last time you guys actually hung out with kids ?
SOPHIE: Peek-a-boo .
NORTH: We are very busy bringing joy to children ! We do n't have time
EMBARRASSED: for children .
JACK: If one little kid can ruin Easter , thenwe 're in worse shape than I thought .
SOPHIE: Weeee ! Weee , weee , weee ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 81 .
BUNNYMUND: You wan na paint some eggs ? Yeah ?
SOPHIE: Okay !
BUNNYMUND: Come on then !
NORTH: Rimsky Korsakov ! That 's a lot of eggs .
JACK: Uh , how much time do we have ?
SOPHIE: Weeeeee !
BUNNYMUND: Woooohoooo !
NORTH: Single file !
BUNNYMUND: Naw , mate
JACK: Not bad .
BUNNYMUND: Not bad yourself .
JACK: Look , I 'm sorry about that whole , you know , the `` kangaroo '' thing .
BUNNYMUND: It 's the accent , is n't it ?
TOOTH: I love her !
JACK: How about I take her home ?
TOOTH: Jack , no ! Pitch is
JACK: no match for this .
BUNNYMUND: Which is why we need you here , with us . The Guardians look at Jack with concern .
JACK: Trust me , I 'll be quick as a bunny .
LAUGHING: Jack
JACK: That voice , I know that voice Baby Tooth looks to him , worried .
BEAT: I have to find out what that is .
JACK: Shhhh ! keep it down . I 'm gon na get you out of here , just as soon as I
PITCH: Maybe not . But you are afraid of something . Jack steadily approaches , cautious and alert .
JACK: You think so , huh ? Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 89 .
PITCH: I know so . It 's the one thing I always know . Pitch finally turns to face Jack .
BEAT: You want the answers so badly . You want to grab them , and fly off with them . But you 're afraid of what the Guardians will think .
PITCH: You 're afraid of disappointing them .
SMILES: Well let me ease your mind about one thing . They 'll never accept you . Not really . The shadows have overcome Jack .
JACK: Stop it ! Stop it !
PITCH: After all , you 're not one of them . Jack aims his staff at Pitch .
JACK: You do n't know what I am ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 91 .
PITCH: Of course I do . You 're Jack Frost . You make a mess wherever you go . Why , you 're doing it right now .
JACK: What did you do ?
PITCH: More to the point Jack , what did you do ?
JACK: Baby Tooth !
BRITISH KIDS: There are no eggs . There 's none anywhere . I give up . Come on , let 's go . I do n't understand .
BRITISH GIRL: Maybe he just hid them really well this year .
BRITISH BOY: I checked everywhere ! There 's nothing !
BUNNYMUND: Yes there is ! There is ! I mean these are n't my best lookin ' googies , but they 'll do in a pinch !
BRITISH GIRL: I ca n't believe it .
BUNNYMUND: I know .
BRITISH GIRL: There 's no such thing as the Easte Bunny . The girl turns to leave .
BUNNYMUND: What ?
WALLA: Easter 's over . Forget this .
BUNNYMUND: No ! Wrong ! Not , not true ! I 'm ight in front of ya , mate !
BRITISH KIDS: There 's no such thing . I know .
WALLA: Now come on . I do n't understand . Why would n't he come ? Let 's get out of here . Easter Bunny , where are you ? This is the worst Easte ever .
BUNNYMUND: They do n't see me .
BEAT: They do n't see me .
GASPS: Where did you get that ?
JACK: I wasit 's Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 94 .
TOOTH: Where 's Baby Tooth ?
FEELING BETRAYED: Oh Jack , what have you done ?
NORTH: That is why you were n't here ? North steps forward to confront Jack .
JACK: No , listen , listenI 'm sorry . I did n't mean for this to happen .
TO OTHERS: He has to go . Jack turns to see Bunny , disheartened .
JACK: What ?
BUNNYMUND: We should never have trusted you !
FORLORN: Easter is new beginnings , new life . Easter is about hope .
BEAT: And now it 's gone .
JAMIE: Whoaaa , whoa , whoaaaaah !
CALEB: Really ?
CLAUDE: For what , the Easter Bunny ?
JAMIE: Guys , I told you - I saw him ! He 's way bigger than I thought , and he 's got these cool boomerang-things-
CALEB: Grow up , Jamie .
CLAUDE: Ah man , seriously .
JAMIE: What 's happened to you guys ?
CALEB: It was a dream . You should be happy you still get dreams like that and not They begin to turn away from him . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 96 .
CUPCAKE: Nightmares .
PIPPA: Forget it , Jamie . There 's just no Easter this year .
JAMIE: He really is real !
JACK: You do n't understand anything !
PITCH: No ? I do n't know what it 's like to e cast out ?
JACK: In me ?
PITCH: Yes ! Look at what we can do !
JACK: Pitch black Pitch , realizing how this looks , clarifies
PITCH: And Jack Frost too . They 'll elieve in both of us .
JACK: No , they 'll fear both of us . And that 's not what I want . Jack turns and walks away .
PITCH: Very well . You want to be left alone ? Done . But first
JACK: Baby Tooth !
PITCH: The staff , Jack . Jack settles and the winds and snow subsides .
BEAT: And I 'll let her go .
JACK: Alright , now let her go .
PITCH: No . You said you wanted to be alone .
BEAT: So be alone !
JACK: No !
JACK'S MOTHER: Come on Jack , you ca n't have fun all the time .
JACK'S SISTER: Jack , get down from there !
JACK'S MOTHER: Be careful .
JACK: We will .
JACK: It 's okay . It 's okay . Do n't look down , just look at me .
JACK'S SISTER: Jack , I 'm scared .
JACK: I know , I knowbut you 're gon na e alright . You 're not gon na fall in . We 're gon na have a little fun instead .
JACK'S SISTER: No we 're not !
JACK: Would I trick you ?
JACK'S SISTER: Yes ! You always play tricks !
JACK: Well , alright . Well , not , not this time . I promise . I promise , you 're gon na beyou 're gon na be fine .
SOFTLY: One She hops , wobbling , but catching her balance .
JACK: That 's it , that 's ittwo
JACK'S SISTER: Jack ! Jack falls back into the icy water . SPLASH !
JACK: Did you did you see that ?
TO HIMSELF: I 'm , I 'm a Guardian .
JACK: We have to get out of here .
PITCH: You 're all free to go ! We wo n't be needing any Christmas toys this year , thank you ! Nor ever again !
JACK: They 're all going out
PITCH: Only six left ! Six precious children who still believe in the Guardians with all their h Make that , five .
ANOTHER: Oo ! Four !
MOUNTING: Three !
ECSTASY: TWO ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 107 .
PITCH: One .
JACK: Jamie !
JAMIE: Okay look , you and I are obviously at what they call a crossroads , so here 's what 's gon na happen -
BEAT: Anything at all . He waits . It 's excruciating .
JAMIE: I knew it .
JACK: Did he just say ? Jamie stands up on his bed .
JAMIE: Jack Frost .
JACK: He said it again . He said
BEAT: You said
JAMIE: Jack Frost .
JACK: That 's right ! But-but that 's me ! Jack Frost ! That 's my name ! You said my name !
JAMIE NODS: Can you Can you see me ?
JAMIE: You just made it snow .
JACK: I know !
JAMIE: In my room .
JACK: I know !
JAMIE: You 're real ?
JACK: Yeah ! Who do you think brings you all the blizzards and snow days , and you remember when you went flying on that sled the other day ? !
JAMIE: That was you ?
JACK: That was me !
JAMIE: Cool !
JACK: Right ? !
JAMIE: But what about the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy I mean
JACK: Real-real-real ! Every one of us is eal !
JAMIE: I knew it ! Jamie 's mom calls from down the hall
NORTH: Ah , moi deti ! Come back ! As North stands , his back suddenly gives out .
TOOTH: North ! Are you okay ?
NORTH: Is official . My powers are kaput .
TOOTH: Look !
GASP: Jack ! Jack comes flying toward them .
TOOTH: Jack ! Tooth falters and falls to the ground .
JACK: You okay ?
NORTH: What are you doing here ?
JACK: Same as you .
NORTH: The last light !
JAMIE: Wow ! It is you ! I mean it is you ! I knew it was n't a dream .
NORTH: Jack ! He sees you !
JACK: Wait , but , where 's Bunny ?
NORTH: Losing Easter took its toll on all of us . Bunny most of all .
JACK: Ohno
JAMIE: That 's the Easter Bunny ?
BUNNYMUND: Now somebody sees me ! I mean , where were you about an hour ago , mate ?
JAMIE: What happened to him ? He used to be huge and cool ! And now he 's cute .
BUNNYMUND: Oh , that 's good . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 113 .
TO JACK: Did you tell him to say that ? That 's it ! Let 's go ! Me and you ! Come on !
JAMIE: No ! Actually he told me you were eal . Just when I started to think that maybe you were n't . Bunny stops . Did he just hear that right ?
BUNNYMUND: He made you believe ? In me ?
JACK: Get Jamie out of here .
NORTH: Be careful , Jack !
PITCH: Jack Frost ! Let 's end this , shall we ?
BUNNYMUND: Quick , this way this way !
JAMIE: Jack ! They rush to Jack and help him to his feet .
NORTH: That was good try , Jack ! A fo effort !
JACK: He 's stronger . I ca n't beat him .
PITCH: Very well . There are other ways to snuff out a light .
BUNNYMUND: If you want him , you 're gon na have to go through me !
PITCH: Look how fluffy you are ! Would you like a scratch behind the ears ? Bunny jumps back into North 's arms .
BUNNYMUND: Do n't you even think about it !
PITCH: I ca n't tell you how happy it makes me to see you all like this . You look awful .
JAMIE: Jack , I 'm scared .
JACK: We 're gonnna have a little fun , instead .
BEAT: That 's it . That 's my center .
PITCH: So what do you think , Jamie ? Do you believe in the Boogiema
JACK: Now let 's go get your friends .
JAMIE: Whoa ! Cool !
PIPPA: Jamie , how are you doing that ? !
JAMIE: Jack Frost ! Come on , we need you help !
PIPPA: Hey is , is that ?
CLAUDE: Huh ? !
BUNNYMUND: Happy Easter !
TOOTH: Do n't forget to floss !
CLAUDE: Cupcake ? And so it goes through the town .
CALEB: The Easter Bunny 's real !
CLAUDE: And Santa !
MONTY: Whoa , yeaaaaaaaah ! ! ! Ahhhhhhhhhhhh !
PITCH: You think a few children can help you ? Against this !
JACK: They 're just bad dreams , Jamie .
BUNNYMUND: And we 'll protect you , mate .
PITCH: Aww , you 'll protect them .
SMILES: But who will protect you ?
JAMIE: I will . Suddenly , Jamie 's friends move to join him .
CUPCAKE: I will .
PIPPA: And me .
MONTY: I 'll try .
PITCH: Still think there 's no such thing as the boogeyman ?
JAMIE: I do believe in you . I 'm just not afraid of you .
KIDS: Whoawhoaaaa !
CUPCAKE: Yeah , Tooth Fairy ! Whooaaa !
MONTY: Whoa , yeah !
PITCH: No ! Get them !
BUNNYMUND: Oh yeah , come on , come on !
BUNNYMUND: I 'm just a bunny !
CALEB: Whoa !
BUNNYMUND: Come on ! Wooooohoooo !
CUPCAKE: Let 's get ` em !
KIDS: Aaaaaahhhhhh !
CUPCAKE: Come on guys , we can do it !
BUNNYMUND: All yours , mate .
JACK: Thanks , Tooth !
THROWING BOOMERANG: Ho , ho , HO ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 124 .
NORTH: Hyah !
LOOKS AROUND: Wrong roof .
CALEB: Look at that !
JAMIE: I got it .
MORE: Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 125 .
JACK: It 's over Pitch ! There 's no place to hide .
BUNNYMUND: Jack , look out ! The other Guardians look on in horror as
WALLA: Whoa ! The Sandman !
KIDS: Man , this is so cool ! Yeah , alright ! Wahoo ! Wow !
NORTH: Welcome back , old friend !
JACK: Sandy .
TOOTH: Oh , Sandy . You 're alright !
BUNNYMUND: Sandy , come here !
JACK: Yeah !
BUNNYMUND: Mate , you are a sight for sore eyes !
SOPHIE: Pretty !
CUPCAKE: Whoa
MONTY: Yeah !
CLAUDE: Oh yeah ? Bring it on !
NORTH: Your center ?
JACK: It took awhile , but I figured it out .
NORTH: You 're all on naughty list .
TO BUNNY: Bunny , think fast !
PITCH: No .
NORTH: Leaving the party so soon ?
TOOTH: You did n't even say goodbye .
PITCH: A quarter ?
TOOTH: And that 's for my fairies .
PITCH: You ca n't get rid of me ! Not forever ! There will always be fear !
NORTH: So what ? As long as one child elieves , we will be here to fight fear !
PITCH: Really ? Then what are they doing here ?
NORTH: They ca n't be my Nightmares , I 'm not afraid .
JACK: Looks like it 's your fear they smell . Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 130 .
PITCH: Ahhh , no.AAAAAHHHHHH ! !
NORTH: Are you ready now , Jack ?
BEAT: To make it official .
TO JACK: `` Will you , Jack Frostvow to watch over the children of the world ?
JACK: I will .
NORTH: Then congratulations , Jack Frost - for you are now and forevermorea Guardian .
KIDS: Oh man ! Woo ! Yeah , Jack ! Yeah , Jack ! Yeah ! Wooo !
NORTH: Yippa !
BUNNYMUND: Yeah ! Wooo ! Good job , mate . Good job !
KIDS: Alright ! Yeah ! Go , Jack ! Alright ! Woo . Alright ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 132 .
NORTH: Klasno !
BUNNYMUND: That 's my boy ! Woo !
KIDS: Alright Jack . Yeah ! Awesome !
TOOTH: Keep it together , girls .
KIDS: Jack ! You did it Jack ! Wooo ! You 're in the Guardians ! Yeah , Jack ! Yay ! Yeah ! You earned it ! You 're Jack Frost ! Yay ! Awesome , yay !
CALEB: You guys , look !
MONTY: That 's Santa 's sleigh .
KIDS: Wow , it 's real . That is wicked ! Whoa , that was awesome ! Ohhcan you believe this ? Whoa , did you guys see that ? That 's awesome ! Wow ! Whoa ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 133 .
BUNNYMUND: Everyone loves the sleigh .
KIDS: Wow ! Look at that ! So totally insane !
NORTH: Time to go .
KIDS: Whoa ! It 's beautiful . Wow , that was awesome !
BUNNYMUND: Happy Easter ya little anklebiter . I 'm gon na miss yah .
SOPHIE: Bye , bye , bunny . Jamie realizes what 's about to happen .
JAMIE: You 're leaving ? But , what if Pitch comes back ?
JACK: Hey , hey , slow down , slow down . You telling me you stop believing in the moon when the sun comes up ? Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 134 .
JAMIE: No .
JACK: Okay , well do you stop believing in the sun when clouds block it out ?
JAMIE: No .
JACK: We 'll always be there , Jamie . And nowwe 'll always be here . Which kind of makes you a Guardian too .
KIDS: I ca n't keep my eyes open . I think I got ta go home . Let 's go home . What time is it ? I 'm sleepy .
JAMIE: Jack !
NORTH: Hyah !
KIDS: Woooo ! Yeah ! Yay ! Guardians Screening Script 9/6/12 Avid 135 .
CAROLINE: Nanotherapy , beta version Tuesday , March 10 , 2011 . Female Test subject Number four . Franklin reaches for us , smiles
FRANKLIN: Here we go , Bright eyes . A MIST fogs our view for a moment .
CAROLINE: Not too much . She needs to be calm , but alert .
WILL: Start the scan .
TECHIE: Scanning .
DONNIE: Stuff looks like Kool-aid .
CAROLINE: Go ahead , I 'm sure you could use it .
OPENING VALVE: Starting the therapy
FRANKLIN: She 's convulsing .
TECHIE: Here we go .
WILL: We 're on our way .
BEAT: Good work .
CAROLINE: What is this ?
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Tree .
CAROLINE: And this ? The chimp presses another button .
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Acorn .
CAROLINE: Where does the acorn come from ?
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Acorn .
CAROLINE: Yes , but where does the acorn come from ?
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Acorn .
ELECTRONIC VOICE: Acorn . Tree . Acorn .
CAROLINE: We started the therapy four weeks ago . This was yesterday .
WILL: I see that . But I do n't understand the primate behavioral norms . She knows an acorn 's a seed . Would n't any monkey know that ?
CAROLINE: No - it 's conceptual . Acorn gives us a tree , which gives us an acorn .
WILL: Abstract thought
CAROLINE: In a chimpanzee . Unheard of .
WILL: Start the other 's on the 112 .
BEAT: And double this one 's dose .
WILL: Hey Dad . Walter looks up , whispers
WALTER: John is that you ?
WILL: It 's me . Will .
WALTER: As thou dost , Anthony . .he hears no music . No music
VOICE: He 's been doing that all day .
IRENA: He found an old book of his .
WILL: My mother was the one . She liked Shakespeare
KISSES HIM: Good night , Walter , hone-ee .
I WILL: Come on , Dad .
WILL: Remember I told you we were using Basic Fibroblast Growth Factors on the apes ? Well the therapy seems to be working . We 've seen definite signs of adult brain neurogenesis .
WALTER: I rather tell that what is to be feared than what I fear fo always I am Caesar
WILL: I 'm going to make you better - I swear it .
WALTER: John ?
FRANKLIN: Good morning , Felix . Bam Bam . Monty . Hey - what 's the matter , do n't like my cooking ?
CAROLINE: Something wrong with Bright Eyes ?
FRANKLIN: I 'll check on her when we 're done .
JACOBS: You could at least try to look excited .
WILL: I 'm not good with this stuff .
JACOBS: You 'll do fine . Just speak English . Keep the science simple .
CAROLINE: Okay . Back it out
DONNIE: Your turn .
FRANKLIN: Be right over -
DONNIE: What 's the matter with you ?
AWKWARD: Alzheimer 's affects the entire neocortex , the hippocampus , and large subcortical regions of the ain
DONNIE: Hey ! ! !
CAROLINE: Hang on -
WILL: In the past , it 's been impossible to target specific areas , both ecause of the Blood Brain Barrier - Jacobs stands , interrupting Will .
JACOBS: What Dr. Rodman has done is to invent a virus that can , for the first time , cross the membrane that protects the brain and deliver a genetic , therapeutic , payload .
WILL: This 'payload ' would directly affect the areas of memory , highe function - and , of course , the motherlode intelligence .
BOARD MEMBER: Meaning ?
WILL: Meaning . If Phase 2 goes as planned , we 're looking at a cure for Alzheimer 's .
DONNIE: She 's breaking my hand !
CAROLINE: Let go , Bright Eyes ! You 're hurting him ! She tries to help pull Donnie away .
FRANKLIN: Lucky no ! Stop !
TO CAROLINE: Hit the alarm !
GUARD #1: Uh oh .
GUARD #2: Hey , Len ?
BOARD MEMBER: What about the safety of the virus ?
WILL: Perfectly safe . We 're using the most stable - A COMMOTION outside . Someone SCREAMS .
JACOBS: Long gone . Will knows the answer , but has to ask anyway .
WILL: Did they say anything before they left ? I mean , about Phase 2 .
JACOBS: Look around you , for Christ sakes . We 'll be lucky if we do n't go to jail . Will 's gutted - devastated .
WILL: But we 're so close .
JACOBS: You think you 're the only one who 's got something at stake here ? I 've got my own skin in this game !
WILL: What happened had nothing to do with the 112 . Take an already aggressive animal , make it smarter - you 're going to get a potentially dangerous
JACOBS: What makes you so damned positive about that ? What if this drug does things you do n't understand ? Are you going to take responsibility for that ? Because I 'm sure as hell not going to . Here Will hesitates .
WILL: They 're apes .
JACOBS: This is what we 're going to do You 're taking a sabbatical . I 'll let the board handle the lawsuit . When this blows over I 'll bring you ack and we 'll start over - we 'll do it right this time . With mice . Tiny mice that ca n't hurt anybody .
 FRANKLIN: Show you something , boss ?
WILL: I do n't work here anymore , Franklin .
FRANKLIN: I just put down fifteen animals , Dr. Rodman . The least you could do is give me a moment of your time .
WILL: of course .
FRANKLIN: They 're all gone .
WILL: I 'm sorry , Franklin . Genuinely sorry
FRANKLIN: They carry small . Must have been pregnant when they brought her in .
WILL: Who else knows about this ?
FRANKLIN: No one .
BEAT: I 'd bring him home , but my brother- in-law works for security . He 'd at me out in a second . That 's when will realizes .
WILL: You want me to take him ?
FRANKLIN: He 's an orphan now .
WILL: I could be thrown in jail . He 's a chimpanzee who 's been exposed to a possibly dangerous drug .
FRANKLIN: You do n't believe that .
WILL: Does n't matter what I believe .
FRANKLIN: Just for a couple days . Until I can find a sanctuary .
WILL: That 's not possible .
FRANKLIN: I heard you outside , fighting to keep them alive .
WILL: I was talking about the work , my
FRANKLIN: she was just trying to protect him .
WILL: What ?
FRANKLIN: Bright Eyes - the mother . That 's why she would n't let anyone into her cage . Will looks down at the helpless baby .
WILL: I 'm sorry , Franklin - I 'm sorry - ut there 's nothing I can do here . He 's got to be put down like the others .
FRANKLIN: Tell you what , Doc . I 'm done for the day . So you be my guest . Franklin hands the LONG NEEDLE to Will .
WILL: Two days . Then you have to figure it out .
TEEN CASHIER: Hey man . Congratulations .
WILL: Huh ?
REALIZING: Oh . Thanks .
IRENA: It 's Friday night . I had a date .
WILL: I 'm sorry - there was -
CAESAR: ( using American Sign
LANGUAGE: You 're welcome .
LAB TECH: Is he going to turn left o ight ?
WILL: There it is . Restored cognitive function .
LAB TECH: Same success rate as the primates . Congratulations .
 STEWART: He 's right on target . Height . Weight She checks Caesar 's ears .
CAESAR: Dairy Queen .
WILL: After . Sit still .
STEWART: What about diet ?
WILL: A healthy diet . Fruits , vegetables .
CAESAR: Ice cream . Will ignores him .
STEWART: What 's he saying ?
WILL: He 's hungry .
STEWART: He seems extremely intelligent . How many words does Caesar sign ? Beat .
WILL: You know , the basics .
CAESAR: Soft-serve .
STEWART: I 've heard of apes learning up to a hundred and fifty words . Is he good with puzzles ? Will hesitates .
WILL: He 's pretty good .
STEWART: Well , Caesar 's healthy , obviously happy . You 're doing a great jo with him . But there is an anomaly I noticed .
WILL: Like what ?
STEWART: When I was examining his eyes , I noticed a strange green pigmentation .
WILL: Green ? His heart starts to pound .
STEWART: Green . Never.seen it before . She hands Will an OTOSCOPE .
WILL: No thanks .
EMBARRASSED: Sure , that would be good .
TO CAESAR: I 'm fine .
STEWART: Carotid pulse is running a little fast .
WILL: For a human or a chimpanzee ?
STEWART: Got ta remember to eat .
WILL: Here 's the hard part you ca n't put a larger block on top of a smalle one . Caesar studies the puzzle .
STUNNED: He did it in fifteen moves .
IRENA: What 's the best score ?
WILL: Fifteen .
AMAZED: I wonder where he gets such talent ?
WILL: It was passed down from his mother .
TODD'S BUDDY: Check it . He wants to play .
TODD: Monkey in the middle .
WALTER: Caesar !
WILL: He wo n't go far .
WALTER: You do n't know that .
WILL: I do , Dad .
HUNSIKER: Hah ! Hah -
WILL: Hold on - it 's okay - he 's harmless !
HUNSIKER: Your monkey came onto my property ! Threatened my kids !
WILL: It wo n't happen again
HUNSIKER: Damn right it wo n't happen again ! I 'll press charges if it does ! Will holds Caesar close and hurries home .
STEWART: What does he do for fun ?
WILL: Well we 've got puzzles , games , a swing set
STEWART: My guess is he needs more . More exercise , more space .
WILL: We 'll work on that .
BEAT: What do you do for fun ?
STEWART: I 'm sorry , did you say something ?
WILL: No - nothing .
WALTER: Take him off the leash .
 WILL: There 's a place up ahead .
WILL: Do n't go far . Stay where I can see you .
YELLING: Remember - stay where I can see you - if you got lost in these woods I 'd never find you .
WALTER: Go ahead . Climb !
WILL: Sorry to rush you - got to get home and check on Walter .
INCREDULOUS: Is that a chimpanzee ?
WILL: Do n't worry - he 's harmless . Very sweet . The big dog keeps BARKING .
S VETERINARIAN: She does n't work here anymore .
WILL: Do you know where she went ?
VETERINARIAN: I 'm sorry - I do n't . Will 's deeply disappointed .
WILL: Come on .
JACOBS: But we 're still making progress , ight ?
WILL: Sure . At this pace we 'll get to trials by the time Hell freezes over .
JACOBS: This is n't graduate school - there 's a procedure we have to adhere to .
WILL: It 'll take forever . I need to start developing a primate version now .
JACOBS: How 's your father ? Have n't seen him in a while .
WILL: This is n't about him .
JACOBS: He 's worse , is n't he ?
EVASIVE: He 's fine .
WILL: Caesar continues to maintain a high level of cognition . But Walter 's disease has caught up to the neurogenesis treatment . Nearly all initial improvement has been erased
CAESAR: Who Caesar .
WILL: What do you mean ?
CAESAR: Who .
WILL: Caesar is an ape .
SIGNING: A chimpanzee .
CAESAR: No `` what '' . `` Who '' .
WILL: Are you asking about your identity ? That 's abstract thought , Caesar .
CAESAR: Walter Will father . Will Caesa father ?
WILL: I never knew your father , but you mother came to live here . This is where you were born .
CAESAR: Caesar mother ?
WILL: She was very very smart . And she passed that onto you through he lood .
CAESAR: Caesar go . Caesar see . Will locks the car door .
WILL: She 's not here anymore . I 'm sorry , Caesar - she died . That 's when I ought you home to live with me and Walter .
CAESAR: Caesar mother Will grows concerned .
WILL: No . This is a bad place for you , Caesar . We 're going to go now .
TV REPORTER: The Icarus crew is led by Commande Colonel George Taylor . This is his fifth space mission
HUNSIKER: Look at the front of my car you stupid , stupid old man ! You should e locked up ! Your son 's going to pay for that damage -
WALTER: Caesar
HUNSIKER: Help ! Get him off -
WALTER: Caesar no Stop !
HUNSIKER: Aaaaaaaah !
WALTER: Caesar !
HUNSIKER: Please no Caesar pounds his chest , YELLING in triumph .
REPORTER: The defense claimed the chimp was merely trying to protect its owne from perceived aggression .
WILL: We 're visiting a place called `` The Ranch '' . They have animals .
CAESAR: Real animals ?
WILL: You bet . Apes . Chimpanzees , gorillas , orangutans Caesar GRUNTS , excited .
CAESAR: Will sad ?
WILL: What ? No , I 'm fine .
CAESAR: Where animals ?
WILL: Inside , I think
SHAKING HANDS: This is Caesar .
MR. LANDON: Nice to meet you , Caesar . This is Dodge , helps me run the place .
WILL: I 've been telling Caesar about the animals you have here . How much fun it is .
MR. LANDON: Yes , we have a big play cente where the chimpanzees like to climb .
TO CAESAR: Want to see the play center ? Caesar nods . Absolutely .
MR. LANDON: What do you think , Caesar ? Want to give it a try ?
WILL: Go ahead .
DODGE: That 's about it for visiting hours . Will shoots him a look of daggers .
MR. LANDON: What Dodge means is , in ou experience , longer you drag out the leave-taking , harder it is . On oth of you .
WILL: I 'm sorry to trick you this way , ut you would never have agreed . I was afraid they 'd hurt you if they forced you -
MR. LANDON: He 'll be fine .
DODGE: Caesar . Hey . I can get you out .
RODNEY: Look at that !
DODGE: One thing you can count on Long as there are humans on this earth , you 'll always be a monkey in a cage .
RODNEY: What about his clothes ? Might cause problems with the other apes .
DODGE: Leave 'em .
JACOBS: You 've been gone a week .
WILL: I was sick .
JACOBS: Too sick to return my calls ? You know it was a funny thing , but I was watching the news and they started talking about a seven-year- old chimpanzee that went nuts - and all of a sudden , there you were on the TV . A seven year old chimp , aised since birth .
WILL: He 's the son of chimp 4 . And he 's smart . Off-the-charts smart . Because of the 112 . The genetic therapy was passed in utero - from the mother to the son . Without a single negative side-effect .
JACOBS: Aside from biting off a man 's finger .
WILL: He was protecting my father . The same way his mother was protecting him .
JACOBS: We 've had this conversation already . We knew the 112 was making the apes smart -
JACOBS: You 're out of your mind .
WILL: Do n't you want to know if it worked ? Jacobs ca n't resist
JACOBS: Did it ?
WILL: It was miraculous . Unquestionable adult neurogenesis - development of fresh nerve tissue .
BEAT: It brought my father back . But Jacobs is confused .
JACOBS: You told me he was failing .
WILL: It 's just like with the mice . Alzheimer 's is a progressive disease , you need to keep it at bay  - you need boosters .
JACOBS: Why have you waited so long to tell me this ?
WILL: I could n't risk losing him .
JACOBS: 'Him ' ?
WILL: Caesar .
JACOBS: The ape ?
WILL: We 've discovered a safe treatment . It 's the payday you 've been waiting for . I 'll recreate the primate version of 112 for you .
BEAT: But only under one condition .
JACOBS: You 're giving me conditions ? I could have you arrested for what you 've done .
WILL: But you wo n't - you need me to uild the drug . Here 's what I need I want you to get Caesa ack .
THROWN: How the hell can I do that ?
WILL: However they do things in your part of the world . Get attorneys into it . Write checks . Slip cash into the right pockets . Make it happen .
VOICE: Caesar .
STEWART: Do you remember me ? I 'm Dr. Stewart . She hands him a cup of water with a straw .
DODGE: oh , hey Doc .
STEWART: That chimp needs protection . Dodge 's face falls .
A LIE: I told Rodney not to open his cage .
STEWART: Ca n't you see how sensitive he is ? How intelligent ?
DODGE: Yeah , no , he 's a real smart dresser .
STEWART: I want him moved to the orangutan house . He 'll be safe there until we re-introduce him to the group .
DODGE: I 'm sorry , since when do voluntee animal doctors make the rules around here ?
STEWART: Please . Just do it .
DODGE: Whatever you say , doc . Dodge returns to stacking the chow .
VIRUS TECHNICIAN: Dr. Rodman - I think there 's been a mistake .
WILL: That 's why we 're using it . We need the drug quickly .
VIRUS TECHNICIAN: But is n't it risky ? I mean , at this rate of propagation , we greatly increase the possibility of mutations that are out of ou control . It 's a highly unstable -
WILL: I appreciate your concern - but it 's going to be fine . We plan on taking precautions .
STEWART: Sorry to drop in on you like this . The clinic at the zoo gave me you address but they did n't have a phone number -
RECOVERING: Do n't worry about it . You want to come in ?
WILL: Can I - you want a cup of coffee o something ?
STEWART: No - thanks . I just wanted to let you know that I 've seen Caesar . Seen Caesar ?
WILL: How ?
STEWART: I volunteer once a week at The Ranch .
WILL: Is he alright ?
STEWART: Yeah . He had a rough start , but things should get smoother from now on
WILL: That 's my dad . He 's not doing too well .
STEWART: Oh . Sorry .
BEAT: Anyway , Caesar 's going to be okay . I 'm looking after him .
WILL: Thank you I appreciate that . Awkward beat .
STEWART: Well . If you give me your numbe I 'll let you know from time to time how things are going -
WILL: Let 's grab a drink .
STEWART: Love to .
DODGE: Want a beer ? The chimp reaches but Dodge pulls it away .
WILL: There you are ! I heard what happened .
SIGNING: Home now . Caesar home . He tugs Will away from Dodge .
WILL: I 'm going to get you out of here , ut not today . I 'm working on it . Caesar 's face falls .
SIGNING: Home . Still a question , a flicker of hope .
WILL: Not yet . I ca n't yet .
DODGE: No place like home , huh monkey boy ?
WILL: Caesar - come back here !
DODGE: That was not a smart thing to do .
WILL: If I find out Caesar 's been hurt , if he 's mistreated in any way , I swear I 'll have you brought up on charges .
DODGE: That wild-eyed chimp is n't yours any more . He 's mine now .
WILL: Forget jail . I 'll come back and kill you .
STEWART: How 's your arm ? Mind if I take a look ?
DODGE: No way .
STEWART: What are you going to do ? Use a cattle prod on me ?
DODGE: If you 're into that kind of thing .
STEWART: I 'm safer with him than I am with you .
DODGE: Answer 's no .
STEWART: I ca n't take you . Maybe another time .
WILL: Which one of you wants chocolate
THROUGH MASK: Boy , he 's a calm one , is n't he ?
STEWART: You actually punched him ?
WILL: I did . She thinks it 's funny .
STEWART: I 've been wanting to do that since the day I met him .
WILL: I do n't advise it . My hand 's killing me .
STEWART: Here . Let me help you out .
WILL: I 'm going to get him out of there .
STEWART: I know you are .
WILL: And I 'm going to get my dad back too .
MAURICE: Happy gorilla . Caesar 's shocked .
CAESAR: Signing orangutan .
MAURICE: Maurice circus orangutan .
CAESAR: More ape sign ?
MAURICE: No . Maurice alone . They HEAR DODGE 'S WHEELBARROW APPROACH .
CAESAR: Careful . Stupid human no like smart ape .
WILL: Hold him steady !
EVANS: Yeah . I 'm good .
WILL: You ca n't put larger blocks on top of smaller ones . Move the stack from here to here .
DEMONSTRATING: You 've got to take the blocks off and stack them again , like this . Will turns the puzzle back around .
FRANKLIN: You wan na know if I think the 113 's making him nuts .
WILL: I know he 's smart . But there 's something else , something worrisome . He challenges me . Taunts me . Will looks toward us , toward the bars .
CATCHES HIMSELF: .I do n't want to start human trials if there 's any chance of danger .
FRANKLIN: What you 're seeing has nothing to do with the 113 , Doc . The apes 're just like us - they 're complex . Some are loyal , some are selfish , some have a good sense of humor . And some are born rotten .
OPENING GATE: Early day today , Evans ?
EVANS: Actually I 'm not feeling too good .
GUARD: You know what Whiskey , lemon , honey and a cup of hot water . Never fails .
EVANS: Thanks - I 'm on it . Evans drives off .
RODNEY: Still wo n't eat , wo n't come out .
DODGE: I can fix that . Dodge drags the hose to Rocket 's cage .
MAURICE: Why cookie Rocket ?
CAESAR: Need strong . All apes strong .
MAURICE: No understand .
CAESAR: Gorilla . He breaks another twig .
WILL: Someone 's sleeping late today -
RODNEY: Sorry - ca n't get him to come out . He wo n't budge .
WILL: He knows I 'm here ?
RODNEY: I told him . Will brushes by Rodney , heads for the cages .
WILL: Caesar - please ! I 've got something to tell you -
BEAT: It 's about Walter .
NEWSCASTER: Captain Taylor and his crew are navigating the ship around the dark side of Mars . Communication is expected to be reestablished -
WILL: I was too late . She puts the photo down , cuddles against him .
STEWART: You tried . You worked really hard . Walter knew that .
WILL: Was n't good enough though , was it .
FRANKLIN: Just checking in . You did n't show up at work today .
MAURICE: Where go ?
CAESAR: Find Mother .
DODGE: Rise and shine , assholes .
CAGE: You sly son of a bitch . How 'd you do that ?
CAESAR: No !
WILL: Hello ?
JACOBS: The animal handler - Franklin - was killed last night . In the primate house .
WILL: Franklin 's dead ?
JACOBS: Something very powerful broke his neck . Snapped it in two .
WILL: Could it have been one of ou chimps ?
JACOBS: All our apes are accounted for -  secured in their cages . But here 's the kicker One of our security guards swears he chased a chimpanzee off the grounds last night .
MR. LANDON: The Ranch . Landon speaking .
LISTENING: Hey Stewart .
MR. LANDON: She said that -
ON PHONE: No one 's answering .
WILL: You go get help .
STEWART: Not a way in the world . I 'm coming with you .
WILL: Caesar .
STEWART: It 's going to take them at least half an hour to get here .
WILL: I 'm going to kill him .
HORRIFIED: Caesar ?
WILL: He 's dangerous .
STEWART: You 're wrong - he ca n't have been the one who killed that man -
WILL: There is no other explanation .
DODGE: Welcome to the mad house .
STEWART: I called Animal Control - they 'll e here soon -
WILL: I just want to talk to you !
DODGE: Well this 'll be interesting because your freak 'll talk back .
RODNEY: Dodge thinks he spoke to him .
DODGE: He did ! He said the word `` no '' - ight to my face .
WILL: What do you mean ?
DODGE: He can talk .
STEWART: That 's impossible .
DODGE: Then he must have a voicebox in his ass , because I heard him ! Caesar walks up .
WILL: Caesar - people are coming . People with guns . You 've got to make the apes go back in their cages .
SIGNING: Apes no belong in cage . Human put apes in cage .
WILL: I brought this for you . Caesar eyes the cookie but does n't take it .
SIGNING: Never .
WILL: You went to the lab last night . I know it was you . Caesar does n't deny it .
SIGNING: Caesar no kill .
WILL: But
SIGNING: Caesar no kill ! Caesar SLAPS the COOKIE from Will 's hand .
WILL: Do n't walk away . We need to talk .
SHOCKED: Where 'd he get that wristband , Caesar ? That 's Koba 's band
REALIZING: Did Koba get out of his cage ? ? Yelling after Caesar .
VOICE STRAINING: No .
VOICE: They could be spread out all ove the County by now .
WILL: No - they 'll stick together .
HUFFS: There 's a leader ?
WILL: His name is Caesar . If I can eason with him , I know I can put an end to this .
HUFFS: Reason with him ?
WILL: You do n't understand - this chimp is smart - he 'll listen to me
HUFF: Get on the horn with every agency you can think of ! We 've got to track down these monkeys before they do major damage !
DODGE: You need me riding with you . I 've got experience with these animals . I can point out the one you want .
OFFICER: If you think of anything else , this is where I can be reached - A RUMBLING SOUND from behind .
OFFICER: We have a situation at Gen-Sys Laboratory ! Approximately two dozen apes , gorillas , I do n't know what the hell they are -
WILL: The lab .
HUFFS: You know anything about this ?
WILL: That 's where I work .
OFFICER #1: Here they come !
OFFICER #2: There 's more of them !
REALIZING: Those are my chimps
HOFFS: Any idea where they 're headed ?
WILL: No .
HOFFS: They were seen heading north from the lab - let 's start with that .
GIRL: Monkey !
MOTHER: April !
HUFFS: You see them ?
WILL: No , I ca n't see -
STEWART: Oh my god .
WILL: He 's going to release the apes .
WRANGLER: What the hell am I supposed to do when they get here ? !
DODGE: That 's him ! The one with the white on his shoulder !
TAXI DRIVER: Where to , my man ?
JACOBS: 24 Marigold .
TAXI DRIVER: Want me to turn down the air ?
DESPONDENT: Whatever .
WILL: They 're going to Muir Woods . I 'm sure of it . He does n't want to hurt anyone - he 's just trying to get the apes out of the City !
WILL: No - let them through !
ALARMED: Is he hurt ?
WILL: No - not him .
OFFICER: They 're all around us !
OFFICER #1: We ca n't gas the forest ! The slightest wind would take it ove to Tiburon .
OFFICER #2: Well it 'll take us months to find them in there .
OFFICER #3: Not to mention rounding them all up . Will approaches the group .
WILL: I know where they are .
HUFFS: This man owns one of the chimps .
BEAT: The so-called `` leader '' . Says he can reason him out .
WILL: His name is Caesar . I think he 'll listen to me . If he comes out , the other apes will follow . Sounds pretty far-fetched .
OFFICER #1: You think you know where to find this monkey ? Will starts to correct him - lets it go .
WILL: I do . I used to bring him here . The Officers look at each other .
OFFICER #1: We do n't have a lot of options . Let 's give it a try .
WILL: But you have to promise me - if I can get them out , you 'll take them peacefully . Tranquilize them , cage them . No killing . Beat .
HUFFS: Whatever it takes .
WILL: You think this is a bad idea ?
STEWART: Definitely . He thought so .
WILL: I know . Got to try , right ? I owe him that much .
YELLING BACK: Think he 'll forgive me ?
STEWART: What ? Will waves it off - never mind .
HUFFS: Follow me .
STEWART: Hang on a second Where are they going ?
WILL: Caesar !
CAESAR: Humans coming .
WILL: No . I 'm alone .
CAESAR: Will want Caesar dead .
WILL: I thought you had killed a man . But I should have known better .
BEAT: Can you forgive me ?
PANICKED: Wait - no -
CAESAR: Will leave .
WILL: I wo n't -
CAESAR: Will leave now .
WILL: No . I 'm staying with you .
TAXI DRIVER: Where to , my man ?
HUNSIKER: SFO . International terminal .
TAXI DRIVER: You got it .
INCREASINGLY DESPERATE: Although isolated in the western egion of the country , the numbers are catastrophic and quickly ising Push in on CAESAR 'S FACE .
RAGGED: Casualties have reached apocalyptic levels . Authorities urge you to stay inside your homes
LONG BEAT: For those of you who can hear me , I say
VOICE BREAKING: God 's speed and so long to you all .
WOMAN: Come into the light.. Come into the light
BOY: Mother
NEWSREEL VOICE: So today , almost a year after his arrival in
MAYER: Who does that cocksucker think he is ?
FLUNKIE: They 're laying bets over on the RKO lot that this great deal will end up with him never doing a picture . Back to New York he goes .
MAYER: Serves him right . I mean can you stomach the arrogance ?
FLUNKIE: Inside skinny says the glory boy 's finished ,
MANK: I do n't know what you expected with Joseph- fucking-Conrad for Chrissake . I mean this is Hollywood , pal .
WELLES: Nonsense
MANK: What are movies about , Orson ?
WELLES: Forget it-
MANK: What are movies about ?
WELLES: Telling stories .
MANK: Nope .
WELLES: Showing life
WELLES: Magic
WELLES: Not for me .
MANK: You 're a laugh-riot , kid .
WELLES: Here , turn around .
MANK: Right-
WELLES: We find the man and then we dissect him-
MANK: Like a bug .
WELLES: But with compassion and insight
WELLES: How do you do , Mr. Hearst ? My name is Orson Welles .
WELLES: Howard Hughes killed Jean Harlow ?
CAROLE LOMBARD: Houdini mice .
HEARST: They really are sweet little things
WELLES: Sigmund Freud ?
WELLES: Manolete ? !
MANK: Who the hell 's Manolete ?
WELLES: The great Spanish bullfighte
MANK: I do n't wan na write about no spic .
MARION: Why Mr. Welles is attempting semaphore
WELLES: Bullfighting , Miss Davies !
MARION: And is dear Mank your b-b-bull ?
WELLES: My factotum , ally and comrade-in-arms
MANK: Writer , flunkie , pimp
WELLES: Ever met Walter Winchell ?
CAROLE LOMBARD: Last week would this be ?
HEARST: Who are you , sir ?
WELLES: My name is Orson Welles
HEARST: The acto
WELLES: And director .
WELLES: To make pictures .
HEARST: And what pictures have you made ?
WELLES: None .
HEARST: Well , I wish you luck . It is a treacherous usiness .
WELLES: So I 've been told .
HEARST: In Hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most utally killed .
WELLES: I 'll remember that .
MANX: Heard some juicy gossip from Metro .
MARION: Ooh , dish .
MANK: The old man has his own way of doing things
MANK: No , baby , those are the hands of a kille
MARION: God , these parties are the worst
CAROLE LOMBARD: You need to get outta here , Rapunzel
MARION: With about twenty of his spies on my tail . No thanks .
MARION: And attractive in a hammy sort of way .
CAROLE LOMBARD: Mm .
MARION: I ca n't
CAROLE LOMBARD: Sure you can , just
MARION: He needs me here .
WELLES: Jesus
MARION: Mankie , Mankie d-d-dance with me
MANK: You 've been naughty , have n't you , honey ?
MARION: Shit , can you smell it ? You got any sen-sen ?
MANK: Sorry .
MARION: Mr. Welles , you got any ? Oh fuck it .
WELLES: Not you too
WELLES: I wonder sometimes .
CAROLE LOMBARD: You 're just scared .
WELLES: Am I ?
CAROLS LOMBARD: Sure
WELLES: And what am I scared of ?
CAROLE LOMBARD: Of being found out . Of not being a genius
MARION: Goddamn it . I got ta have some kinda life !
HEARST: There 's no call for that language-
WELLES: That poor woman .
WELLES: Mank ! You scoundrel ! What took you so long ? !
MANK: Orson , please it 's too bright
WELLES: Here you are , up with the birds for once , you vampire !
MANK: Okay , boy wonder , what ?
MANK: Oh for Christ 's sake-
MANK: This better be good
MANK: Oh Christ
MANK: Oh Christ
WELLES: Yes .
MANK: Please do n't say this .
WELLES: Mank-
MANK: Do n't whisper it . Do n't even think it
MANK: Orson . Stop . Just stop
MANK: Listen to you . You child ! Men like him do n't bother with things like legality . They do n't have to . You know why , boy-o ? Power . Powe like you could n't even begin to imagine .
WELLES: We 're doing Hearst .
WELLES: So speaks the court jester .
MANK: Fuck you
WELLES: I expected more from you .
MANK: Sorry to disappoint .
MANK: It feels just fine , you pompous fuck-
MANK: Do n't do this
MANK: Do n't do this
WELLES: Listen to me-
MANK: Fuck you
MANK: I do n't have it anymore ? !
WELLES: It does n't have to be
WELLES: I 'll hire you right now-
MANK: He 'll destroy us .
MANK: Thank God you do n't write dialogue
WELLES: So , who is he ? We have to know him .
WELLES: How ?
WELLES: Why her ?
MANK: She was . . . innocent
MANK'S VOICE: Men like Hearst do n't love..
MANK: They do n't have to .
MANK: And what does he see ?
JOHN HOUSEMAN: That 's too long . Tighten it up
JOHN HOUSEMAN: Telegram from The Christ Child
MANK: That man makes my brain hurt
WELLES' VOICE: And Gregg Toland plunks down his Oscar fo
LOUELLA: Priceless !
LOUELLA: Huh ?
HEDDA: What does truth have to do with movies ?
LOUELLA: So , what , it went into your other hand ?
WELLES: And so the dreamer awakens into the realms of
WELLES: We 're using-
LOUELLA: You 're not doin ' Hearst , are you ?
WELLES: Good God no ! The character is a delicious amalgamation of various press barons
LOUELLA: A delicious amalgamation , is it ?
WELLES: I am not doing Hearst .
MANK: Yeah , but the margins are real wide .
WELLES: It is 350 pages of ABSOLUTE INSPIRATION !
MANK: It 's good , huh ?
WELLES: Good ? ! Good ? ! Words fail you at last ! It 's
MANK: What ?
MANK: The title ?
MANK: Cain like the Bible guy ?
WELLES: K-A-N-E. One strong syllable . Kane I
MANK: Craig is one syllable
WELLES: But it 's not a great syllable
WELLES: To my invaluable comrade Drink up !
MANK: I 'm out , are n't I ?
HOUSEMAN: Welcome to the world of Orson Welles .
MANK: YOU FUCK ! YOU SELFISH FUCK !
WELLES: Jesus Christ
WELLES: Get away from me
MANK: You ca n't do this to me !
MANK: I hope you choke on it . I hope it kills you .
HEARST: Darling , I talked to Millicent .
MARION: There . That 's right .
HEARST: I 'm so sorry .
SCHAEFER: CITIZEN KANE
WELLES: Pardon ?
SCHAEFER: CITIZEN KANE There 's your title .
WELLES: Jesus
WELLES: Please do n't ask me to do this .
WELLES: George , I want you to let me make this movie
WELLES: Ah , it 's a grand title .
SCHAEFER: Like it would kill him to say thank you
ABSOLUTELY NO: ADMITTANCE .
WELLES: Today we - -
ORSON: WELLES .
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud .
WELLES: Again .
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud .
WELLES: Again .
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud .
WELLES: Again
GREGG TOLAND: You want a ceiling on this one too ?
WELLES: You bet .
GREGG TOLAND: Gon na be tough
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud . ''
WELLES: Again
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud
WELLES: Again
PAUL STEWART: `` Rosebud ? I 'll tell you about Rosebud . ''
WELLES' VOICE: Print . ; '
WELLES: Actors .
ELECTRICIAN: Mr. Welles ?
WELLES: GET OUT
WELLES: No that 's not right
TOLAND: Orson , you wan na take five ?
WELLES: Five ? Yes . No . We 're done today
LOUELLA: Pictures of the castle ?
PHONE VOICE: Yeah
LOUELLA: Thanks , doll . Get me more .
MANK: Uh huh .
WELLES: I just ca n't . . see it anymore
WELLES: I 'm sorry .
MANK: I do n't care .
MANK: Too late , kid .
WELLES: Did I ever tell you about my father ?
MANK: I do n't give a shit about-
WELLES: Yeah
MANK'S VOICE: Orson just cut the goddamn tea
WELLES: Okay
WELLES: Can you see my shoes ?
TOLAND'S VOICE: Yeah , but we lose your head .
WELLES: Goddamn it Joe stand here
TOLAND: Spare me the aria , I know what you want
TOLAND: I know what you want but it ca n't be done !
TOLAND: Orson we ca n't get the fucking camera any fucking lower so find another fucking shot !
WELLES: Come on , Gregg ! We 'll tear out this floor !
WELLES: Get me a jackhammer .
MANK: There but for the grace of God , goes God .
WELLES' VOICE: Okay , Joe . . . come closer . . . close
WELLES: Keep filming .
JOSEPH COTTON: I ca n't remember the lines !
TOLAND: We done ?
WELLES: Yeah .
WELLES: This is an abomination There 's no music and
SCHAEFER: They 've all seen a rough cut
SCHAEFER: When Hedda says `` I 'm coming '' you mix a lot of martinis and you pray .
WELLES: What the hell did that mean ? !
SCHAEFER: Here ? As in right outside the door ?
SECRETARY'S VOICE: Yes , si
SCHAEFER: Well , send her in !
LOUELLA: Schaefer , I got ta see this Welles picture
LOUELLA: You drink at 10 am , do you ?
SCHAEFER: No no I mean
LOUELLA: I wan na see the picture today
SCHAEFER: He personally asked you to ?
LOUELLA: That 's right
SCHAEFER: Hearst ?
LOUELLA: Uh-huh
SCHAEFER: Oh god
LOUELLA'S VOICE: It is . . . assassination .
HEARST: How so ?
HEARST: Yes ?
LOUELLA: The drinking .
LOUELLA: Thank you , sir . She begins to leave
LOUELLA: Sir ?
HEARST: Why did we not know about this sooner ?
LOUELLA: Sir ?
LOUELLA: Sir , I-
HEARST: Please be quiet .
LOUELLA: He lied to me
HEARST: And how do you feel when you are lied to ?
LOUELLA: I want blood
SCHAEFER: Oh Christ
WELLES: The ad..
SCHAEFER: They dumped our ad .
HEARST: Louis
MAYER: Randolph !
HEARST: Hope you do n't mind my popping in
MAYER: Over at RKO ?
HEARST: Mm . Not a very good picture I am told .
MAYER: Uh-hub .
MAYER: Yeah
MAYER: You know that ca n't happen .
HEARST: Oh , why is that ?
MAYER: Bel Air is restricted .
HEARST: Oh , that 's right . How silly of me to have
MAYER: Yeah
LOUELLA: Nix , sweetie . You shelve it
SCHAEFER: Oh for God 's sake , Louella-
SCHAEFER: Can I talk to Hearst ?
LOUELLA: You are talking to him .
MARION: Do n't
WILLICOMBE: Sir , we got the call .
HEARST: Thank you , Joseph .
MARION: How bad is it ?
HEARST: Nothing for you to worry about , darling
MARION: Pops
MARION: How much ?
HEARST: It 's not really
MARION: How much ?
HEARST: 125 million .
MARION: We 're 125 million dollars in debt ?
HEARST: Yes .
MARION: How does one get 125 million dollars in debt ?
HEARST: One . . . buys things .
WELLES: We open on Monument Valley . Those towering
BERNARD HERMANN: Orson , please..
WELLES: Who is he , Gregg ?
TOLAND: Oh , no
WELLES: Yes !
TOLAND: He 's Christ ?
WELLES: I 'm Christ
TOLAND: You want to do the life of Jesus ?
MANK: Hey , kid . Gregg .
MANK: No , you got ta hear this-
BERNARD HERMANN: I 'm trying to work here !
WELLES: Sorry , you keep at it , old boy .
MANK: You read Louella ?
WELLES: Well , at least she 's off KANE today
WELLES: Hedy Lamarr ?
MANK: Jews . She 's talking about Jews .
WELLES: So they 're Jews . . .
WELLES: Christ .
WELLES: What does this have to do with ?
WELLES: It 's too late . The movie 's made
BERNARD HERMANN: We 're ready . You want to hear it ?
TOLAND: His next picture he wants to play Christ .
"RAYMOND": `` Throw that junk in , too .
HEARST: Switch it off SWITCH IT OFF
MARION: Well he got us , did n't he ?
HEARST: Marion
MARION: Bought and p-p-paid for . Just like one of his
HEARST: This picture
MARION: I am not that woman .
WILLICOMBE: Mr. Hearst , I have Miss Par '
HEARST: Miss Parsons , Mr. Hearst . Use the file
MAYER: What do you want ?
LOUELLA: Kill CITIZEN KANE .
MAYER: How ?
LOUELLA: I do n't give a shit .
HOOVER: Agent McCabe , if you please .
MARION: How bad is it ?
WILLICOMBE: Miss Davies
MARION: Come on Joe . How bad is it ?
WILLICOMBE: It 's finished
MARION: Sure , Pops . That 's a swell idea
MARION: Then you explain it to me ? !
HEARST: There 's nothing to explain
HEARST: I will not defend my life to you
HEARST: We are in no `` pickle '' as you would euphemistically have it .
MARION: You got ta wake up now . Pops .
HEARST: There is nothing to discuss-
HEARST: You need n't use that language with me
MARION: Did you need it ? Did you need any of it ?
HEARST: I wanted it
MARION: There 's a different between want and
HEARST: Not for me .
HEARST: That 's right . You 've captured me exactly . Goodnight .
MARION: You will not walk out on me
HEARST: You are repellant when you drink .
MARION: Tough shit . We need to t-t-talk about this
MARION: Fuck you , Mr. Kane .
HEARST: I will not have this in my home .
MARION: I just want to understand
HEARST: No , you do n't . You want to condemn me , like
MARION: I do n't want you to
CAROLE LOMBARD: And he did .
CAROLE LOMBARD: Sure
MARION: Yeah . But all of a sudden it 's not
CAROLE LOMBARD: Uh-huh
MARION: The character that 's supposed to be me , Susan Alexander
CAROLE LOMBARD: Marion , everyone knows you 're not like that
MARION: But I am That 's the killer , honey .
SHOP OWNER: May I help you ?
MARION: Yes .
MARION: Thank you-
SHOP OWNER: Not one of them today has what you had , Miss Davies . Not one of them .
MARION: Thank you b-b-but I 'd really like t-t-to
SHOP OWNER: Surely My pleasure , Miss Davies..
MARION: How much for the lot ?
WELLES: Then find another theate
WELLES: Then we 'll open it in Detroit or Dallas o
WELLES: `` Do what you can '' ? ! That 's not good enough I
SCHAEFER: Well it ' s all you 've got !
SCHAEFER: For Christ 's sake , shut up
WELLES: Why do n't you just have the guts to admit it
WELLES: It 's just that my movie is so-
WELLES: That soulless monster gets no tears from me .
WELLES: It 's sad
MAYER: It 's enough that he does
SAM GOLDWYN: Would Louella really do it ?
MAYER: In a New York minute
HARRY COHN: Goddamn right .
JACK WARNER: Who the fuck cares ?
MAYER: David-
JACK WARNER: Your son-in-law meshuaena .
DISNEY: He 's got me and Hoover ?
MAYER: We will buy the movie and we will destroy it .
HEARST: I 'll have to sell the animals .
RITA HAYWORTH: `` Swear like a trooper , Live in a stupor
SCHAEFER: He truly does n't care if he ever works again .
MANK: Yeah , ai n't it swell ?
WELLES: George- - !
WELLES: I really think you 're
WELLES: It was a -joke , George
SCHAEFER: There are no jokes ! There are people making a living . There is food on the table !
MAYER: It came .
SCHAEFER: Very generous
SCHAEFER: To do what ?
MAYER: That 's for me to decide .
SCHAEFER: You 're going to destroy it
SCHAEFER: You 're lying to me .
SCHAEFER: You talked to New York ?
MAYER: Yes
SCHAEFER: You talked to Mr. Swanbeck ?
MAYER: Yes
SCHAEFER: Get out
SCHAEFER: Get out .
BUNNY BERIGAN: `` I 've flown around the world in a plane , I 've
HEARST: Ah , Miss Davies , the times we have seen
TOLAND: See , this is the Great Salt Lake we do the aptism here .
WELLES: Is that from one of the Gospels ?
MANK: Kinda .
WELLES: George ! Enter And Behold
SCHAEFER: No , we 're jake . But listen-
SCHAEFER: Hold on a sec . I got news . We finally found somewhere to premiere KANE but
WELLES: I do n't want to sit
MANK: Oh God .
SCHAEFER: I been talking to Swanbeck in New York and
MANK: This ai n't George 's doing !
HEARST: I ca n't sell this . How much are they asking ?
MARION: Pops let it go . Just let it go
HEARST: Yes , I think I shall .
WELLES: Six of spades
SCHAEFER: We open on May 1st .
WELLES: Does it matter ? They believed it
SCHAEFER: Orson .
WELLES: Do you ?
SCHAEFER: They 're cutting us dead , every goddamn one .
WELLES: It 's my birthday this week . I 'll be 26 .
SCHAEFER: Happy birthday .
SCHAEFER: Herman .
MANK: So ai n't this just the bee 's knees ? The high
WELLES: You gon na watch ?
MANK: Hell , I know how it ends . Hey , Rosebud 's the sled !
WELLES: Mank !
SCHAEFER: Oh God . . .
SCHAEFER: You know something , Orson , you have n't done
WELLES: It was fun , was n't it ?
SCHAEFER: It was the best , kid
WELLES: So , on to the Life Of Christ !
MANK: Shit
WELLES: George
SCHAEFER: Forget it . Cause you know something..
WELLES: What have I done ?
WELLES: But the picture
MANK: Kid , you know how it ends too . It ends sadly .
"KANE": `` Rosebud
MANK: Yeah , you 're probably right .
BOY: Does it hurt ?
FIRST DRAFT: Trilogy Entertainment Group
SUNSET: The glowing orb ripples like a blood-red eye .
PETER: It is a lie . I caught him stealing ours .
ROBIN: No ! I took the bread .
PETER: That 's not true .
ROBIN: They 're not interested in truth . You are too weak , Peter . You would not live through it . The Interrogator stares into Robin 's eyes .
PETER: That 's for five years of hell .
ROBIN: You speak English ?
SARACEN: The king 's own . Set me free .
PETER: No , Robin .
SARACEN: For pity 's sake . Mine is a sentence of death .
PETER: Do n't trust him .
ROBIN: What I would give for an English sword . This is a pruning hook .
SARACEN: Free me and I will show you a way out .
ROBIN: Why should we trust you ?
SARACEN: If you do n't , you are dead men .
ROBIN: He makes a point . The door bursts open . More guards rush in .
PETER: Robin !
ROBIN: Whatever blood is in his veins , he does not deserve to die here .
SARACEN: This way !
ROBIN: Five years I 've waited for the smell of free air . That makes a man fast .
SARACEN: You will need to be yet faster .
SARACEN: Poison air . Hold your breath .
PETER: Thanks . I misjudged you .
SARACEN: Save your breath .
ROBIN: Amen , brother .
ROBIN: Come , Peter . We must hurry .
PETER: It is mortal . Leave me .
ROBIN: Hold on to my shoulder . Peter shakes him off .
PETER: My mother my little sister . Tell them I love them . Tell them I died a free Englishman . Robin looks despairingly to the Saracen .
SARACEN: His wound is by the heart . We can not save him .
PETER: Take this to my sister . Swear you will protect her for me Swea it , Robin !
ROBIN: I swear it .
PETER: For England .
SARACEN: Come now ! Do not fail your friend . Make his sacrifice an act of honor .
ROBIN: Farewell , friend . God speed you on your way .
SARACEN: Our way is together . With the speed of Allah .
ROBIN: I go to England .
SARACEN: Then I go to England .
ROBIN: England ? Why ?
SARACEN: You saved my life . I must stay with you until I save yours .
ROBIN: Go your own way . I relieve you of your obligation .
SARACEN: Only Allah can do that .
ROBIN: And if I do n't want you ?
SARACEN: You have no choice unless you think you can kill me . He grins broadly . Offers his hand .
ROBIN: Robin of Locksley . You know a short route to England , Aslan ?
KENNETH: My Lord ! Help me .
DUNCAN: You must wait I am sorry you were disturbed , Master .
KENNETH: My Lord , please !
LOCKSLEY: It is alright , Duncan . You are Kenneth of Cowfall ? The peasant falls to his knees .
KENNETH: They 've taken my Gwen . My daughter .
LOCKSLEY: Who has taken her ?
KENNETH: Men on horses . In masks . We tried to stop them . My son is dead .
DUNCAN: You can not go alone , Master . Let me ride for help .
LOCKSLEY: That may be too late . Kenneth , lead the way . He kicks his horse into motion .
DUNCAN: Master , stay ! There is an evil moon tonight .
LOCKSLEY: Good will overcome , Duncan . Trust in that .
KENNETH: They came this way , my Lord .
LOCKSLEY: Onward then . What is this place ?
KENNETH: Nearby the Gregor Caves .
LOCKSLEY: Steady , man . They are to dissuade the faint of heart . Think of Gwen .
KENNETH: Druids .
LOCKSLEY: I trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago .
KENNETH: Is it the devil ?
LOCKSLEY: If it is , I have some Christian steel that will test his hide .
LOCKSLEY: Gwen ? Kenneth nods .
DEMON: Come , my virgin flower .
LOCKSLEY: Gwen ! Up , girl , up !
LOCKSLEY: Nottingham !
NOTTINGHAM: You are an unwelcome surprise , Locksley .
LOCKSLEY: The King shall hear of this , Nottingham .
NOTTINGHAM: I think not .
LOCKSELY: God help us .
NOTTINGHAM: One day all England will worship with us .
LOCKSLEY: Never . The crone spits venom in his face .
DEMON: I am Mortianna . You will die with my name on your lips .
ROBIN: Home . Thank you , Lord .
ASLAN: No man controls my destiny . Especially not one who attacks downwind and stinks of garlic . Robin laughs . The Saracen remains intense .
ROBIN: Come , Aslan . By nightfall we will celebrate your honor when we dine with my father .
GISBORNE: You owe the sheriff three bushels of flax .
FANNY: You starve us . First the drought , now you take what food we have left .
GISBORNE: For starving people , you look fat enough .
SOLDIER: He 's not here , sir . None but the woman and children .
GISBORNE: Where is your mate ? The man they call Little .
FANNY: He died last winter .
GISBORNE: Is that so ? We hear he is very much alive . Hiding out in the forest . He probably ran away to escape your scolding tongue .
FANNY: Norman swine !
FANNY: No , Wulf ! Do n't ! 'Twill only make it worse .
GISBORNE: Seize him !
FANNY: I killed it . We needed the meat .
GISBORNE: Poachers hang . Either he dies o you die .
WULF: My mother lies to protect me .
FANNY: No , Wulf ! Gisborne drags the boy to the carcass .
GISBORNE: You have deprived us of a hunt , oy .
GISBORNE: Unleash them !
ROBIN: Why must you walk in back of me ?
ASLAN: In your land am I not the infidel ? The unbeliever , the instrument of evil ?
ROBIN: Our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point .
ASLAN: Then I trust it is safer to appea as your slave than as your equal .
ROBIN: For an 'infidel ' you have uncommon clarity of thinking . Yet you efuse to tell me about your home and family .
ASLAN: Those are my burdens .
ROBIN: You speak my language . You have the diplomacy and honor code of a nobleman . I ask again , why were you to be executed ? The Saracen maintains a moody silence .
ROBIN: By the Lord , that 's it ! Aslan is silent , but Robin knows he 's right .
ASLAN: It is close to sunset .
ROBIN: Your people must marry women chosen for them by others , right ? No reply . Aslan unfolds a prayer rug .
ASLAN: Endless clouds . Is there no sun in your cursed country ?
ROBIN: You dog ! You painted old dog ! What is her name ?
ASLAN: Which way is East ?
ROBIN: Her name ?
ASLAN: East ?
ROBIN: Her name ?
ASLAN: East ? ! ! ! Robin folds his arms . A standoff .
ASLAN: Damn you ! Jasmina .
ROBIN: Ah , Jasmina ! Is she beautiful ?
ASLAN: Which way is East ?
ROBIN: That way .
ASLAN: Are you sure ?
ROBIN: I would know blindfolded . I 'm five miles from home Was she worth it ?
ASLAN: Worth dying for .
GISBORNE: You 're not playing by the rules , oy . Deer do n't climb trees Perhaps he thinks he 's a game ird . Shall we teach him to fly ? Cut it down !
ROBIN: Hold ! I am curious as to what manner of creature is so fearsome that it takes six men to attack it .
GISBORNE: Stand back , stranger . This is no affair of yours .
ROBIN: Have we treed the devil himself ? Let me see Ah ha ! A small boy . A truly dangerous animal .
GISBORNE: I advise you to move on , pilgrim . This is the Sheriff 's land .
ROBIN: Wrong . This is my land , and my tree . Therefore , whatever is in it also belongs to me .
GISBORNE: I grow dangerously tired of you wit Chop it down !
ROBIN: The man who strikes that tree dies .
GISBORNE: Chop down the hooded fool .
ROBIN: Perhaps we could discuss this .
GISBORNE: Kill him !
ROBIN: Aslan ! It 's time to redeem that vow .
GISBORNE: Set the dogs on him !
ROBIN: Aslan , get off your damn knees ! I have four of them cornered .
GISBORNE: Well , hooded stranger , allow me to know your name before I run you through .
ROBIN: On your knees , Gisborne . Pray . He obeys . Robin raises his sword .
GISBORNE: Please , Locksley ! No !
ROBIN: Now get off my land . And tell you cousin the Sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my people .
ASLAN: I will fulfill my vow when I choose .
ROBIN: Which does not include praye times , meal times , or any time I 'm outnumbered six to one ! !
ASLAN: You whine like a mule . You are still alive .
ROBIN: Barely . Aslan examines Robin 's wound . Dismissive .
ASLAN: A flesh wound . Why did you let their leader go ?
ROBIN: After six years of the stench of death , I have no stomach fo needless blood on my hands . Wulf climbs cautiously from the tree .
ASLAN: The conquering hero returns .
ROBIN: Ha ! It was you he was scared of .
ASLAN: With feather pillows ?
ROBIN: With feather pillows . Warm and soft like Jasmina 's embrace .
ROBIN: Damn you , Duncan . Why did n't you cut him down ?
DUNCAN: Master Robin , is it you ? A miracle . I thought God had abandoned us .
ROBIN: You left my father to hang like a common thief , carrion for the crows .
ASLAN: Easy Look at him .
ROBIN: What has happened ?
DUNCAN: They say they captured him worshipping with the Druids . He signed a confession before the Bishop of Hereford .
ROBIN: Did they have witnesses ?
DUNCAN: Just one . Kenneth of Cowfall . The Bishop decreed all the Locksley lands forfeit .
ROBIN: Did you believe the charges ?
DUNCAN: Not even when they took my eyes .
ROBIN: Who did this to you , Duncan ?
DUNCAN: Guy of Gisborne . With the sheriff looking on .
SENTRY: Sir Guy . His Lordship is not to e disturbed .
GISBORNE: Away , fool . He shoves the Sentry aside .
NOTTINGHAM: Who bade you cover up ?
GISBORNE: I met a hooded man today . He bade me warn you not to harm his people .
NOTTINGHAM: His name ?
GISBORNE: Robin of Locksley .
NOTTINGHAM: Ha ! The prodigal son returns . He is a whelp . This girl could best him .
GISBORNE: This whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye .
NOTTINGHAM: Your men were probably drunk . Yet you survived , cousin ?
GISBORNE: You brought her here ?
NOTTINGHAM: Quiet !
MORTIANNA: Change the seat of power .
NOTTINGHAM: London ?
MORTIANNA: Change it .
NOTTINGHAM: Move the capitol to Nottingham ? Excellent . How ?
MORTIANNA: Ally with royal blood .
NOTTINGHAM: Put someone on the throne and rule through him ? Who ?
MORTIANNA: That is not revealed .
NOTTINGHAM: Ally with royal blood . What else do you see ?
MORTIANNA: Armies .
NOTTINGHAM: Whose ?
MORTIANNA: Yours . Men and weaponry in great numgers .
NOTTINGHAM: And victory ?
MORTIANNA: Much blood will be spilled .
NOTTINGHAM: Whose ?
MORTIANNA: Who have you seen ? !
GISBORNE: No one . I have seen no one .
MORTIANNA: You lie ! A man A painted man .
NOTTINGHAM: What is wrong ?
MORTIANNA: I have seen my death .
GISBORNE: Locksley has a companion . A dark- skinned foreigner . He had the marked skin of Islam .
MORTIANNA: Kill them ! Kill them !
NOTTINGHAM: Cousin . Prove to Locksley that your survival was his last mistake .
MORTIANNA: And the painted man ! Kill him .
NOTTINGHAM: Kill them both .
NOTTINGHAM: Now , my child , Mortianna 's kisses will seem soft , like an angel 's . Take her . You have earned her .
GISBORNE: It is madness bringing the hag here .
NOTTINGHAM: Fear not for my sanity , Guy . Fo in madness , there is great power .
ROBIN: Our last words in this world were spoken in anger . He called the Crusades a foolish quest , said it was vanity to force other men to our religion . He was right . Please forgive me , Father .
DUNCAN: He loved you till the end , young master . He never gave up hope of your return .
ROBIN: I failed him . I should have been here at his side .
DUNCAN: You must leave , head north to safety . Gisborne will surely seek evenge .
ROBIN: Leave me .
DUNCAN: I know what you 're thinking . But one man can achieve nothing against so many . You would need an army .
ROBIN: Leave me .
ASLAN: Come , friend . He leads the old man away .
DUNCAN: He still stands vigil ?
ASLAN: Like a rock . Duncan offers half the bread to the Saracen .
DUNCAN: A curse on the Saracens ! Were it not for their ungodly ways , he would never have left . This would never have happened .
ASLAN: It surprises me that one who curses others so readily has lived so long .
DUNCAN: I do not recognize the style of your voice , friend . Are you Irish ? A Cornishman ?
ASLAN: Er no .
DUNCAN: What manner of name is Aslan then ?
ASLAN: A fine Saracen name .
DUNCAN: Lord , no ! He chokes in shock . Spitting bread .
ASLAN: Lord , yes . But eat in peace . I take no offense . By the prophet ! What is the man doing ?
ROBIN: I swear by my own blood . I will not rest until I have restored my father 's name . Or until I am dead .
ASLAN: A fine , wet army . I have neve witnessed a storm of such duration . When does summer come to this land ?
ROBIN: This is summer .
ASLAN: Then Allah truly is great .
ROBIN: Why , pray ?
ASLAN: No food , no shelter , and weathe that would curse the end of the earth . We will all quickly be dead , and I shall be rid of my vow .
ROBIN: You despair too soon , Aslan . We shall find food and shelter here among friends .
ASLAN: What is this place ?
ROBIN: Peter 's home . It is nearly seven years since we left here together .
OLD WOMAN: No beggars ! The hatch slams shut . Robin pounds again .
ROBIN: Open up ! A pause . The hatch slides back .
OLD WOMAN: Her ladyship is not at home .
ROBIN: Aagh !
ROBIN: Is the child Marian at home ?
OLD WOMAN: Maybe she is . Maybe she is n't . Remove that hand .
ASLAN: The hospitality here is as warm as the weather .
OLD WOMAN: Leave your weapons .
GIRL: Who are you ?
ROBIN: I am Robin of Locksley .
GIRL: You lie . Robin is dead .
ROBIN: I may meet my maker soon from lack of sustenance . But for now I am eal enough .
GIRL: Step into the light . Turn around .
ROBIN: By heaven , am I to dance next ? Who are you ?
GIRL: I am the maid Marian .
ROBIN: Then show yourself , child . For we knew each other well .
GIRL: With the king away , these are lawless times . There are outlaws villainous enough to kidnap and ansom a relative of his .
ROBIN: You know I am not one of them . Besides , I am sworn to protect you .
GIRL: Protect me ? Robin of Locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully .
ROBIN: Allow that years of war and prison may change a man . Step forward , Marian , so I may see how you have changed .
GIRL: Thank you . Now remove yourself from this household .
ROBIN: Wait , Marian ! ouch !
ROBIN: You are truly courageous against an unarmed man .
YOUNG WOMAN: As she was saying , we have no need of your protection . Robin croaks through clenched teeth .
ROBIN: Marian .
MARIAN: I trust Lord Locksley has ecovered from his indisposition . Aslan laughs . Robin glares .
ROBIN: We were together five terrible years in a Saracen prison .
MARIAN: How do I know you did n't abandon him there to save your own skin .
ROBIN: Marian , I 'm sorry .
MARIAN: I will forward your condolences to my mother .
ROBIN: On my return , I found my fathe dead . The Sheriff denounced him as a Druid and took our lands .
MARIAN: The people fear the Druids so much they 'd believe anything . Nottingham would have me burned at the stake as a witch if he thought he could possess my property .
ROBIN: Why do you not join your mothe in London ? You would be safe there .
MARIAN: I will not retreat . Besides , I have no interest in life at court . Gossip-mongering and currying favor . Here I am my own person .
ROBIN: The you must allow me to be you guardian .
MARIAN: I do not need a guardian . She turns to face him . Streaming tears .
ROBIN: Marian , I do n't want to replace him .
MARIAN: What do you want ?
ASLAN: Robin ! The old man hears horses . Approaching fast .
MARIAN: Soldiers coming here ? Is this your protection ?
ROBIN: I killed some of the Sheriff 's men . I fear I have placed you in danger .
MARIAN: I can take care of myself . There are horses in the stable . Go ! Aslan runs into the stables .
ROBIN: I 'm not leaving .
MARIAN: Stop them ! They 're stealing my horses !
ROBIN: Damn the girl ! Aslan , can you ide ?
GISBORNE: You have been sheltering outlaws , Lady Marian .
MARIAN: They 're thieves , you imbecile . Bring back my horses , or the Sheriff will know of you cowardice . Gisborne knows she is lying .
GISBORNE: You 're lucky he did n't steal you virtue too . A crown to the man who brings me Locksley 's head .
SOLDIER: A kiss for me , Saxon bitch .
MARIAN: Kiss this !
ROBIN: Damn you , animal ! Aslan shouts from the far bank .
ASLAN: Treat it like a woman .
ROBIN: Of course I 've had a woman ! Come on , pretty one .
ASLAN: Softly . With your knees .
ROBIN: I know ! I know !
GISBORNE: Robin of the Hood ! Son of the devil worshipper .
ROBIN: What is your pleasure , Gisborne ?
GISBORNE: It was I who strung your father 's corpse to the castle gate . My pleasure will be in doing the same to you .
ROBIN: You survived one meeting . Our next will be your last .
GISBORNE: Your father died a coward , cursing your name and squealing like a stuck pig .
ROBIN: That 's a lie !
ASLAN: Come , Robin ! He is trying to anger you into a trap .
ROBIN: We have lost them . I 'll lame this mare if I ask her to go any farther .
ASLAN: Here they come . Look . Robin puts the device to his eye
SCOPE POV: The soldiers are close !
ROBIN: Is this Arab magic ?
ASLAN: No . Arab science . He replaces the tube in his pouch .
ROBIN: God knows !
DUNCAN: Sherwood is haunted , Master .
ROBIN: Either we take our chances with the ghosts , or become ghosts ourselves .
GISBORNE: Come on , damn you ! There are only three of them .
SOLDIER: It 's not the men we fear , sir .
DUNCAN: Banshees . They say they fly in your mouth and suck you dry of lood before you can scream . He wraps his scarf over his mouth .
ROBIN: Be quiet ! Listen .
ASLAN: Allah protect us from the evil spirits . Duncan clings to his back . Robin points .
ROBIN: Behind you ! Aslan slashes out , futilely .
ASLAN: Cease your mad laughing . I can feel them .
ROBIN: Here are your ghosts , Duncan . A child 's toy put to good use . You scare easily , my painted Saladin .
WILL SCARLET: Ring around the rosie !
ROBIN: Aslan ! Aslan makes no move to intervene .
WILL SCARLET: Atishoo , Atishoo . We all fall down . Beg for mercy , rich man .
ROBIN: I beg of no man . Which of you scum has guts enough to face me man to man ?
JOHN LITTLE: What are ya , m'old cock ?
ROBIN: Er Robin
JOHN LITTLE: John Little . Bestman o ' the woods .
ROBIN: Bestman ? You lead this rabble ?
WILL SCARLET: We waste time . Tax him .
ROBIN: Tax ? For what ?
WILL SCARLET: For passage through Sherwood .
ROBIN: I will pay no tax . Besides , I have nothing but my cloak and my sword .
WILL SCARLET: A man who travels with two servants and claims he 's without money , is either a fool or a liar .
ROBIN: That is sacred to me .
JOHN LITTLE: Sacred to us too , mush . This here 'll feed us for a bloomin ' month . Robin draws his sword .
ROBIN: You will have to fight me for it .
JOHN LITTLE: I 'd love to , mate .
WULF: Wait , father ! I know him .
ROBIN: This man is your father ? Tell him how I saved your hide from the Sheriff 's soldiers . That deserves some gratitude , I believe .
JOHN LITTLE: Naw ya do n't , laddie .
WILL SCARLET: You must be Robin of Locksley . The blackguard who abandoned us to Nottingham 's plundering .
WULF: Be careful , Father . He fights like a demon . He walloped six o ' Sheriff 's men ?
JOHN LITTLE: Is that so ?
ROBIN: Aslan !
WILL SCARLET: Oh dear ! The little rich boy is lost for words . Thanks for the taxes , Locksley .
JOHN LITTLE: And for the laughs .
ROBIN: Son of an Arab whore ! Once again your assistance was invaluable .
ASLAN: You seemed more in danger of losing your pride than your life .
DUNCAN: I recognized some of the voices . Many were from your father 's farms .
ASLAN: Your avenging army , my friend .
ROBIN: That rabble ?
ASLAN: All they need is a leader .
ROBIN: They have a leader . A very large one .
ASLAN: Defeat him and they will follow you .
ROBIN: Allah has taken your brains .
DUNCAN: I hear the voice of a spoiled child , Master Robin . I suggest you cease your brave talk of evenge and flee to the north .
ROBIN: You , too ? You expect me to fight that behemoth ?
DUNCAN: Your father would expect you to act like a man .
ROBIN: This is my bridge . No one crosses without paying tax .
JOHN LITTLE: Just bugger off , mate , huh ?
ROBIN: If you wish to cross , it will cost you a gold medallion .
JOHN LITTLE: Ai n't I hurt you a bloody nuff for one day ?
WILL SCARLET: If he 's in a hurry to end his mortal misery , help him .
ROBIN: You do n't have the courage to face me again , John Little ? O should I call you 'Little John ' ?
JOHN LITTLE: Alright , m'old cock . You wan na nuther good wallopin ' ?
WILL SCARLET: Do n't fool with him . Get him !
JOHN LITTLE: Swimmin ' time again , ol ' chum .
JOHN LITTLE: Bloomin ' shame . ' E were a brave 'un .
ROBIN: Do you yield ?
JOHN LITTLE: Yes !
ROBIN: Good . Now put your feet down .
JOHN LITTLE: I 'll be buggered .
ROBIN: Pay me the tax .
JOHN LITTLE: Robin Hood , ya got balls o ' solid ock .
LITTLE JOHN: Mead . Made it m'self .
ROBIN: A fine brew , Little John .
LITTLE JOHN: Real honey .
ASLAN: With regrets , I decline .
LITTLE JOHN: An Englishman 's mead not bleedin ' good enough for ya ?
ASLAN: On the contrary . I thank you , ut my faith prevents me from partaking in such enjoyments .
LITTLE JOHN: Your bloody loss , mate .
WULF: I wan na thankee , Lord Locksley . I owes ya m'life .
ROBIN: You owe me nothing , Wulf . I am glad I chanced by in time to help .
LITTLE JOHN: C'mon , lad , drink ! 'Twill put hair on your bloomin ' chest .
ROBIN: Tell me about your men , John .
LITTLE JOHN: This stumpy one 'ere 's David o ' Doncaster . We calls 'im Bull .
ROBIN: How do you come by the name , Bull ?
BULL: 'Cuz o ' my size , Sire .
ROBIN: Because you are short ?
BULL: Nay . 'Cuz I be so long . Proudly , he starts to pull down his pants .
ROBIN: No , Bull . Save it for the ladies .
LITTLE JOHN: That be Hal Brownwell , but the lads call i 'm Hal Hiccup .
ROBIN: Hold ! Hal , you have the face and hands of a farmer . I wager you are a strong and honest man , and I 'd be glad to have you at my side in a fight . The next man who makes light of you will have to answe to me .
LITTLE JOHN: We 're outlaws . Got prices on ou 'eads , every man jack . Blasted Sheriff says we owes 'im taxes .
ROBIN: How do you fare ?
LITTLE JOHN: We get by , I reckon .
ROBIN: While the Sheriff steals you land and your families starve ?
LITTLE JOHN: What in bloody blazes 'd ya have us do ?
ROBIN: Your ghosts will only keep his men at bay so long , my friend . Soon the Sheriff will hunt you down and hang you . You must fight back .
LITTLE JOHN: We show as much as a toe outside the forest , they 'll slaughter us like bleedin ' sheep .
ROBIN: We must organize . Win by guile .
LITTLE JOHN: 'We ' ? Ya lookin ' to join us , matie ?
ROBIN: No . To lead you .
WILL SCARLET: Ha ! I would never be led by the son of a Druid .
ROBIN: There are many here who knew my father to be a kind and generous man . I doubt that in their hearts they believe him capable of such a horror .
ROBIN: What is your name , friend ?
WILL SCARLET: Count me not a friend , Locksley .
LITTLE JOHN: Stuff a flippin ' cork in it , Will . The man 's our guest .
ROBIN: He is right to distrust me . I am a rich man 's son . I have done no honest labor . But today I am as poor as any of you . Nottingham has stolen all that I own . And when I killed Gisborne 's men , I , too , became an outlaw .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya 're full o'bloody wind an ' all , mate . This 'ere load o ' rubbish agin the Sheriff 's bloomin ' army ? Ya must be bloody jokin ' .
ROBIN: We can win . And I believe we will .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya 're a daft bugger , Robin Hood , ut ya 're a brave 'un , I 'll give ya that . Drink up , laddie , cuz tomorrow ya may n't be so lucky ! Tomorrow I shall best ya an ' crack that blasted noble head in two .
ASLAN: I have led you wrong . This is no army . These men live like dogs .
ROBIN: English dogs . They can learn .
ASLAN: Learn what ? To build kennels ?
ROBIN: Too much mead , old friend . What day is it ?
DUNCAN: Sunday , I believe .
ROBIN: Good . Do they still give alms to the poor at the mass ?
DUNCAN: They do . These days the need fo mercy is greater than ever .
ROBIN: Then I must ask you a favor .
GUARD: Hey , you !
GUARD: Do I know you ?
ROBIN: Pardon my blindness , sir . I 'm always falling down .
GUARD: Yeech ! Get away from me .
BISHOP: We beseech thy blessing , Lord , on all your people , but most especially on our noble Lord Nottingham . Grant him the wisdom to guide and protect our glorious city .
VARIOUS: 1 . Alms ! 2 . Have mercy , milady . 3 . Pity , fine sir . 4 . For my baby . 5 . Etc .
ROBIN: Alms for a blind man . For one who can not see your beauty .
MARIAN: This is dangerous .
ROBIN: So you care for my safety ?
MARIAN: No , for mine . I do not wish to be seen with an outlaw .
ROBIN: Under the Sheriff 's law , that 's a badge of pride .
MARIAN: He 's put a price on your head .
ROBIN: How much ?
MARIAN: A hundred gold pieces .
ROBIN: Is that all ? I have not annoyed him enough . Soon he will offe ten thousand .
MARIAN: For ten thousand I would turn you in myself . Nottingham is mounting an army .
ROBIN: How do you know ?
MARIAN: He has rounded up every blacksmith in the county . He has them holed up in the castle making swords and armor .
ROBIN: What is he planning ?
MARIAN: I do n't know , but there 's no limit to the man 's ambitions . Go !
ROBIN: If you need me , I will be with the woodsmen . Send for me as 'Robin Hood . '
MARIAN: Robin ! Do something for me .
ROBIN: What ?
MARIAN: Take a bath .
ROBIN: Care to join me ?
NOTTINGHAM: You shine like the sun , my lady .
MARIAN: Yes . A most disagreeable experience .
NOTTINGHAM: I deeply regret it , and I promise you he will be brought to justice . For subjecting you to such treatment , I will hang him from the walls with his own entrails .
MARIAN: I would like to see that , my lord .
NOTTINGHAM: My dear , a woman of your refinement is not safe living alone . If you would consent to bring you household within the city walls , I could give your needs my most personal attention .
MARIAN: I thank you , Lord Nottingham , from the heart , but for now I prefer to stay in my family 's ancestral home . My cousin , King Richard , will be deeply moved to hear of you concern for my welfare .
NOTTINGHAM: Alas , the King has many enemies oth abroad and at home . I fea for his safe return .
MARIAN: Fear not , my dear Sheriff . He will eturn . When he does , he will wish to reward his faithful subjects .
BEGGAR: Alms , my lord .
ROBIN: A hundred crowns , Sheriff ? You insult me .
NOTTINGHAM: If you kill me , you will hang .
ROBIN: If I kill you , I will hang happy .
NOTTINGHAM: What do you want ?
ROBIN: I want to give you a chance . A chance you do not deserve . A chance to right your wrongs .
NOTTINGHAM: I 'm listening .
ROBIN: From this day forward you will cease to tax my people . You will enounce the charges against my father , and you will return his lands to me .
NOTTINGHAM: Why should I ?
ROBIN: Because for every harm you do , I swear by God I shall visit on you threefold in return .
NOTTINGHAM: Empty words .
ROBIN: I am here with a blade at you throat . As long as I live , you will always know that I could be here again .
ROBIN: Your answer ?
NOTTINGHAM: Never , fool .
ROBIN: Then it will begin..
MARIAN: Please excuse my clumsiness .
ROBIN: A personal loan from the Sheriff .
ASLAN: You should not have left without me , Englishman .
ROBIN: How so ? You have not raised a finger to protect me .
ASLAN: Before I had a choice .
ROBIN: It was my choice to do this alone .
ASLAN: A foolish risk . If you had been killed , I would be cursed fo eternity for failing to fulfil my pledge .
ROBIN: Aslan , if I did n't know better , I would swear you were worried about me .
NOTTINGHAM: Starve them out . Slaughter thei livestock . I want to see Locksley 's own people fighting each other to ing him to us .
GISBORNE: I swear he will not live to see the next full moon .
FARMER: Go ' bless ya , sir . Leave us the sow . She 's with young 'uns . The next litter 'll feed us through the winter .
SOLDIER: You 've heard of Robin Hood ?
FARMER: Yes , sir .
SOLDIER: Then pray he is brought to us efore winter .
WILL SCARLET: You brought this misery on us , Locksley . We can barely feed ourselves .
LITTLE JOHN: Sheriff has n't left us a bloody pot to piss in .
ROBIN: Then we shall take from him and his rich friends .
WILL SCARLET: Brave talk , Locksley . I say we take the rich boy in . Murmurs of general agreement .
ROBIN: Will , do you think the Sheriff will give everything back after I am gone ?
WILL SCARLET: He will give us the reward , and our pardons .
ROBIN: Alright , Will . You can take me in on one condition . You must fight me . You may use the Sheriff 's horse and arm yourself as you please . I will fight on foot . Unarmed .
WILL SCARLET: Unarmed ?
ROBIN: If you lose , you will accept me as your leader . If you win , you may take me in . Dead or alive .
WILL SCARLET: Dead , Locksley .
ASLAN: This man has true purpose . He means to kill you .
DUNCAN: And you have given him the means .
WULF: Will is ruthless , Robin . Guard your back .
ROBIN: I am grateful for your concern , friends , but I have to prove to them it is possible to overcome unequal odds . I am ready , Will .
ROBIN: Come on , you little piss pot . Do your worst !
LITTLE JOHN: Bollocks , Will . Jus ' bugger off , eh ?
ROBIN: Nottingham has taken from us everything we own . Now we are going to start taking from him .
LITTLE JOHN: 'Ow in bloody blazes are we gon na do that ?
ROBIN: We are going to tax him .
ASLAN: Here they come .
ROBIN: How many ?
ASLAN: Two wagons . Twenty escort .
ROBIN: Twenty ? They usually have five . He grabs the telescope .
ROBIN: This is no ordinary convoy .
BULL: 'ow many ?
ROBIN: Er , about ten . Why scare them ? They ca n't count anyway .
ASLAN: And they call me the barbarian .
ROBIN: Let 's go . Together they run down the hill , keeping low .
ROBIN: Surrender your weapons . I give you my word you shall go free .
LITTLE JOHN: I 'll be buggered .
ROBIN: This treasure had a purpose . We must find out what .
FRIAR: The Lord 's blessing on you , kind sir . These sinners were attempting to steal these libations destined for the monks of St. Catherine 's . He indicates his cargo of barrels .
ROBIN: It appears to me , Reverend Friar , that many of the libations have found their way into your own esteemed person . Ignoring him , the Friar mounts the cart .
FRIAR: A thousand pardons , sir , but duty eckons . I must hasten on .
ROBIN: A moment , my reverend friend . You travel with poor company when you travel with Nottingham 's soldiers .
BULL: Aye , tax him . This sparks a chorus of comments .
ROBIN: My men are thirsty and have much to celebrate .
FRIAR: Lord bless me , sir , are these you men ? I had mistook them fo common thieves . Kindly step aside .
ROBIN: Surely the Lord has the charity to spare a few barrels to good Christian men .
FRIAR: Well , sir , if you wish them to share in the good Lord 's brew
FRIAR: you must best me for it .
ROBIN: You leave when I say .
FRIAR: Protect me , Lord .
ROBIN: Never ! Whoomf !
FRIAR: Yield , I say ! Yield to Fria Tuck .
ROBIN: Yield yourself !
ROBIN: Yield to Robin Hood .
FRIAR: Thank you , Lord , for teaching me humility .
ROBIN: Well , Friar Tuck . We have need of an honest man of God , to minister to these men and thei families . What do you say ?
FRIAR: I 'd rather roast in hell . He punches Robin in the gut .
ROBIN: Giddyup , Friar .
FRIAR: The Lord moves in mysterious ways . I accept .
ROBIN: You will not regret it .
FRIAR: Aye , but you may .
ROBIN: Buy yourself a new son , Stephen .
FARMER: Thankee , Robin .
LITTLE JOHN: Cai n't get a bleedin ' squeak outa 'em , Rob .
BULL: They 'd be spittin ' it out good if they 'd knowed anythin ' .
LITTLE JOHN: Reckon the Cap ' n knows summat , Rob , ut stubborn ol ' cocker ' e is .
ASLAN: Perhaps it is time for some heathen persuasion .
CAPTAIN: Spare your breath . I know nothing .
ROBIN: I believe you . But this Arab here , he 's got it into his barbarian ain that you know a whole lot more than nothing .
ROBIN: I strongly advise you to talk . He has n't eaten in weeks .
CAPTAIN: What does he want ?
ROBIN: You .
CAPTAIN: For Godsakes , get him off me !
ROBIN: No , Aslan not this one , Aslan . How about this other one ? Fatter , yes more meat .
LITTLE JOHN: No , Robin , no ! They be God-fearin ' men .
ROBIN: I can not stop him , John . Besides , if they will not tell what they know , then they must pay the price .
LITTLE JOHN: Kill 'em aye , but not like this . 'Tai n't Christian .
CAPTAIN: What does he say ?
ROBIN: Well , roughly , he says that he does n't care for the way you friend tastes , and he wants you .
CAPTAIN: No , God , no ! I 'll talk . Just keep him away . Keep him away !
LITTLE JOHN: Sure changed the color of 'is itches , did n't ' e ?
ROBIN: Thanks to our cannibal friend .
LITTLE JOHN: Gon na laugh my bloody balls off .
BULL: Why 'd the Sheriff be sendin ' gold north o ' the border ?
ROBIN: To hire mercenaries . The Celts are savage tribesmen , trained to kill from birth .
LITTLE JOHN: Aye , the Romans built a bleedin ' great wall to keep 'em out .
BULL: What does ' e want wi 'em ?
ROBIN: Since he also has every Smith in the country working in his castle , we can assume he is planning a little war .
LITTLE JOHN: Agin ' who ?
ASLAN: England .
GISBORNE: We were ambushed . In Sherwood Forest . Nottingham tests the sword against an anvil .
NOTTINGHAM: Spanish steel , cousin . So much stronger than our native blades . Any losses ?
GISBORNE: All the men are gone .
NOTTINGHAM: Yet again you are the sole survivor , cousin ? Interesting . And the gold ?
GISBORNE: Well , it er disappeared .
NOTTINGHAM: Robin Hood ?
GISBORNE: They were woodsmen , dressed in green .
NOTTINGHAM: Robin Hood .
FRIAR: God bless you , sir .
VILLAGER: An ' Go ' bless Robin 'Ood , friar . They says as 'ow none o ' the Sheriff 's cronies dare go within miles o ' Sherwood for fear o ' havin ' their pockets pinched .
FRIAR: Ah , the good Lord giveth and the good Lord taketh away .
OLD WOMAN: Unless Robin Hood takes it first !
FRIAR: Good morrow , brothers .
MARIAN: How dare you !
ROBIN: Good morning , Lady Marian .
MARIAN: You send men to drag me from my home in the middle of the night , like some slave girl ? Is this the way the famous Robin Hood treats a lady ?
ROBIN: Ah well er , let me finish this ath you wished me to take . Then I 'll explain .
MARIAN: I demand an explanation right now !
ROBIN: If you will be patient , I could spare your propriety by
MARIAN: I will decide when my propriety is compromised .
ROBIN: As you wish .
MARIAN: How dare you expose yourself to me ? !
BULL: The big 'un did the same to me .
LITTLE JOHN: Right m'lad . Let 's see how close you can git to that bugger .
MARIAN: This better be damned important .
ROBIN: Nottingham robs the poor . We ob Nottingham and give back to the poor .
MARIAN: Do you think he 's going to let you get away with all this ? The man is without mercy . He will annihilate you .
ROBIN: Somebody has to take a stand .
MARIAN: You 're taking a stand with the lives of these people . These young ones .
ROBIN: Nottingham was sending this gold to buy reinforcements from the Celtic tribesmen . We need to warn King Richard .
MARIAN: Nottingham would not dare challenge the King .
ROBIN: The King is not in England to e challenged , is he ? While he is away , he may lose his country . You are Richard 's cousin . You can get word to him . He would elieve you .
MARIAN: Now you want me to participate in your folly ?
ROBIN: I am sending Duncan with you . Give him some warm food and a eal bed . I grow tired of his ellyaching .
DUNCAN: Hah ! I have endured more hardship in my lifetime than any man here .
ROBIN: Do n't tell him I told you , but he may be useful to you . There is no one to whom I would rathe entrust your safety .
MARIAN: Duncan , you are most welcome .
ROBIN: Will you send word to the King ?
MARIAN: I 'll think about it .
BISHOP: I understand , my dear lady . This is my most trusted emissary . He hands the letter to a solemn courier .
MARIAN: You will travel to France immediately . You must give this directly into the hands of the King , and him alone .
BISHOP: My dear , I could not vouch fo her safety . The journey is fraught with danger .
MARIAN: I appreciate your concern , my Lord , but Sarah is an accomplished ider . I must insist that she goes along .
BISHOP: As you wish .
ROBIN: We have to be ready to move camp at any time . The only way we can e attacked is from the Nottingham Road . We hide lookouts in the trees , here and here . If they see soldiers , they shoot warning arrows . Whistles by day , fire y night . Wulf runs up to Little John in panic .
WULF: Father ! Come quick . Mother 's dying .
FRIAR: The child comes early .
LITTLE JOHN: Hush , m'lass . Ya 'll be fine .
FANNY: 'S not like t'others , John . Oh God , it pains me so .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya 're sittin ' thar like a fat sow . Help her , man , help her !
FRIAR: I am doing all I can .
ASLAN: By Allah , leeches !
FRIAR: Get away from her ! Aslan pushes him away , continuing his work .
ASLAN: Blood is like air . If she loses lood , she and the child will die .
FRIAR: He lies . He is the devil 's seed , sent to lead us astray .
ASLAN: Fool , both the Bible and the Koran instruct us to preserve life .
ASLAN: Your baby has not turned . It can not be born without help .
FRIAR: What do you know , you damned savage ?
ASLAN: If you will allow me , I can help her . It will not be without danger .
FRIAR: Do not listen to him ! He will kill her .
ASLAN: If you do not listen to me , she will certainly die . And the child , too .
ROBIN: The good Friar has done all he can . I suggest you let the Ara try . If I am wrong , and they die , then you may take my life . John 's eyes meet his wife 's . She nods .
LITTLE JOHN: So be it .
FRIAR: Then it will be on your head . I have warned you .
ASLAN: Bring me a needle , thread , water , a skinning knife , and burning ashes .
ROBIN: What are you going to do ?
ASLAN: The child must be taken out by the knife .
ROBIN: The knife ?
ASLAN: I have seen it many times with horses .
ROBIN: Horses ? By the Lord , what are her chances ?
ASLAN: After wasting so much blood not good .
ROBIN: Now you tell me !
ASLAN: Are you ready ? Bite down on this Robin , hold her steady . He lifts the red-hot knife from the ashes .
FRIAR: I tell you , the barbarian is killing her .
INSIDE: The mother heaves , then drops .
ROBIN: Is she gone ?
ROBIN: What did you say ? Aslan holds up a bloody struggling infant .
ASLAN: It is a boy .
FRIAR: This day God has taught me a fine lesson .
ASLAN: Alas , I am not permitted
FRIAR: Our God made this brew , brother . I merely combined the ingredients . Do you dare to insult his works ?
SARAH: What is wrong ?
COURIER: My horse seems to be favoring a foreleg .
MARIAN: Who is there ? Duncan !
SOLDIER: We meet again .
MARIAN: You are still overmatched , soldier .
SOLDIER: You owe me favors , wench . Bare your breasts or I will do it for you .
DUNCAN: I am sorry , my lady . There were too many . She stares at the invaders with studied calm .
MARIAN: Is there something you need , gentlemen ? I remember no masked all on my calendar .
REDHEAD BARON: Forget about Locksley . He is no threat .
NOTTINGHAM: How can we control all England if we can not control our own county ? The people are turning him into a hero .
GREYBEARD BARON: It is impossible to attack him in the forest . We have tried everything . He is cunning .
NOTTINGHAM: Then we will be more cunning . I must be rid of him . We may not e able to intercept his next warning to the King .
CELTIC CHIEFTAIN: I want the heads of the men who stole my gold .
NOTTINGHAM: Welcome , sir . We were discussing how to rid ourselves of those very men . The outlaws who band with Robin Hood .
REDHEAD BARON: My Lord Nottingham , I must protest . It is a mistake to ally ourselves with foreigners .
GREYBEARD BARON: What can these Celts do that we can not ?
NOTTINGHAM: This rat Hood has hidden out in the forest . He resists all ou assaults with traps and devices , while he robs us blind . We must ing him out and destroy him .
FRIAR: Come , you son of Saladin . A toast to all of Jehovah 's children . The saved and the damned .
ASLAN: This must be a truly evil potion , to make the soul feel this good .
FRIAR: How can these Arabs hold Jerusalem when they ca n't even hold thei ew ?
ROBIN: The dancing demon ! Good morning .
ASLAN: If it was Jehovah who created this ew , he is truly wise . He built the punishment into the crime .
ROBIN: They need help .
BULL: A bloke wearin ' a mask o ' the Druids rode by . Tossed 'im down .
ROBIN: Are you sure it was a Druid mask ? Damn them to hell ! They must have Marian . Do you know where they meet ?
BULL: The Gregor Caves , I 'eard tell .
ASLAN: We will go there .
ROBIN: No ! You stay here , dammit ! I will go alone .
ASLAN: You forget yourself . I am not your servant .
ROBIN: Then be my friend . There are women and children here in greate need of your courage .
ASLAN: Take my eyes , then . He hands Robin his telescope .
ROBIN: Marian !
MARIAN: Death is not to be feared , Robin . Embrace it .
ROBIN: Why , Marian ?
MARIAN: Because you love me . Say it . You love me . Say it !
ROBIN: I love you .
MARIAN: Kiss me .
ROBIN: Where is Marian ?
MORTIANNA: She is with friends . Your resistence is strong , but useless . Sign this . You are a Druid like your father . You consort with the devil . You confession will be witnessed by the Bishop of Hereford .
ASLAN: Behind you !
ROBIN: Marian ?
BULL: Ya be sure Sarah gits a Christian urial . Promise me , boy .
WULF: I promise .
ASLAN: They have poisoned you . There are herbs that can alter a man 's ain . I know of only one cure .
ASLAN: It worked for me this very morning . You will thank me for this later .
ROBIN: You have fulfilled your vow . Now you can leave .
ASLAN: Your gratitude warms my heart .
ROBIN: You ignored my request .
ASLAN: It is fortunate that I did .
ROBIN: Because of you , another good man is dead .
ASLAN: He urged me to bring him . He was a brave man and I grieve for him . Praise be to Allah that I do not grieve for you also . Or for my oken vow .
ROBIN: To hell with your damn vow .
ASLAN: I am glad you are feeling etter .
ROBIN: The forest ! Ride !
LITTLE JOHN: Ya 'll be jus ' fine . Lil ' smoke ai n't gon na kill ya .
WILL SCARLET: It 's burning for miles , John . It 's hotter than hades , and them damn screens ai n't worth nothing .
LITTLE JOHN: 'Ere , lads Over 'ere ! We must make a stand . Most of them keep on running .
WILL SCARLET: Where 's that damn Locksley ? I 'll swear he betrayed us .
LITTLE JOHN: Bollocks , Will . Quit yer bloody ellyachin ' . Hal runs to join them , stuttering .
HAL: C cccc
LITTLE JOHN: C ccc ? What the bloody hell ya sayin ' ? Cows ? Cowards ?
HAL: Cccc elts !
WILL SCARLET: Celts ? Where ?
HAL: Gggg God help us .
NOTTINGHAM: I want prisoners . The Chieftain does not turn his head .
CHIEFTAIN: We came to fight .
NOTTINGHAM: Nevertheless , I need prisoners .
WILL SCARLET: What are we gon na do , John ?
LITTLE JOHN: Stop 'ere and flippin ' well fight 'em , that 's what . Whadya say , lads ?
FRIAR: This holy man believes in doing God 's work with his hands .
LITTLE JOHN: Let 's give 'em a bloody good wallopin ' an ' all , lads .
ROBIN: Wulf , stay here . I need you horse .
ASLAN: I saved your life . I will not let you give it away for no purpose .
ROBIN: Out of my way , damn you !
ASLAN: Does the witch still have possession of your senses ? If we meet up with the survivors we may yet give them some help . And do some damage to the enemy .
FRIAR: Surely you would not harm a man of the cloth ? The man swings , Tuck sidesteps .
LITTLE JOHN: 'Bout bleedin ' time , mush .
FRIAR: Thank you , Lord . And thank you , Allah .
LITTLE JOHN: Git the bleedin ' 'ell outa there , ya li ' l bugger .
ASLAN: It was a fiendish mind that planned this campaign .
ROBIN: You were an honor to you countrymen today , Aslan . You fought better than twenty English knights .
ASLAN: This war is the God of Abraham against the forces of evil .
ROBIN: Well , the war is over . He stares across the desolate clearing .
NOTTINGHAM: Would you prefer pain or death ?
FIRST WOODSMAN: Death .
NOTTINGHAM: Torture him .
WILL SCARLET: I will kill him for you .
WULF: Will , no !
NOTTINGHAM: Why would I need you ?
WILL SCARLET: All your attempts to kill him have failed . Your army failed . Your Celtic mercenaries failed .
NOTTINGHAM: And you can succeed ?
WILL SCARLET: I am one of his men . He would never suspect me .
WULF: He knows you always hated him , traitor .
WILL SCARLET: He is a trusting fool . He will elieve me . If he does n't , he will kill me and you have lost nothing .
NOTTINGHAM: If you fail , I will personally cut out your lying tongue .
WILL SCARLET: And if I succeed ?
NOTTINGHAM: His friends will.. torture him !
ROBIN: My pride brought us to this .
ASLAN: No , friend . It was you who gave these men pride .
ROBIN: I gave them nothing but false hope . Tomorrow we will disperse . These people can move south and start over . You must go home and win your Jasmina .
ASLAN: And you ?
ROBIN: I am no longer your responsibility .
ASLAN: That is for me to decide .
ROBIN: Damn you , Arab . I want you out of my life . Ca n't you understand that ? Go home . Go back to you own kind .
ROBIN: Damn you , too , Father . You reared a coward and a fool .
MARIAN: Kiss me , Robin .
LOCKSLEY: Why have you betrayed me ? Why ?
ROBIN: Will ! I thought you were taken .
WILL SCARLET: I was .
ROBIN: How did you escape ?
WILL SCARLET: I promised to kill you .
ROBIN: And will you ?
LITTLE JOHN: I 'll wring yer scrawny neck , Will Scarlet . I 'd be doin ' yer a loody favor an ' all .
FANNY: Afore ya kill 'im , John , ask 'im if Wulf be still alive .
WILL SCARLET: Y e
LITTLE JOHN: Git us a rope , Hal , and we 'll put the bleedin ' weasel outa 'is misery .
ROBIN: John , wait . Let us hear what he has to say .
LITTLE JOHN: No bugger 'scapes the Sheriff , 'nless ' e 's linin ' 'is bloomin ' pockets .
ROBIN: A traitor sneaks in and out unde cover of darkness . Will walked in and announced himself .
LITTLE JOHN: Aye . ' E always did 'ave balls o ' ass .
HAL: Let 's sss string 'im up .
ROBIN: Let him speak .
LITTLE JOHN: Search 'im , Hal . ' E 'll 'ave a loody blade on 'im somewheres .
WILL SCARLET: I bring a message from Nottingham . Our men are to be hung in the square on Saturday . At high noon .
FANNY: What about my boy ?
WILL SCARLET: The boy , too . Ten men in all . Fanny drops her head on John 's shoulder .
FRIAR: Robin Hood ! Robin Hood ! Robin Hood ! May as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb .
WILL SCARLET: The hangings are to be part of the celebration for the Sheriff 's marriage .
LITTLE JOHN: Marriage , eh ? What lucky wench gits to play with the Sheriff 's codpiece ? Will turns his gaze directly on Robin .
WILL SCARLET: Lady Marian .
FRIAR: He takes a bride of royal blood ?
LITTLE JOHN: Aye , and then with King Richard gone , he takes the bloody throne .
ROBIN: You were to use this news to get close to me , and then kill me ? Right , Will ?
WILL SCARLET: Not straightway , of course .
ROBIN: What is your intention , Will ?
WILL SCARLET: That depends on you , Locksley .
ROBIN: How so ?
WILL SCARLET: I 've never trusted you , that 's no secret . What I wan na know is , are you gon na finish what you started ?
WILL SCARLET: Will ya stay and keep us fightin ' till every man jack of us is dead ? Or will you run like the spoiled little rich boy I always took you for ?
ROBIN: You present quite a choice . What would you have me do , Will ?
WILL SCARLET: If you run , I will kill you .
ROBIN: And if I stay , will you all stay with me ? Robin checks the other faces .
ASLAN: To the end , friend .
FRIAR: If my heathen brother stays , I stay .
HAL: Mmmm meee tttt
LITTLE JOHN: ' E 's in . We 're all bloody in . Daft buggers .
ROBIN: There 's your answer , Will . We finish it .
WULF: If it be your biddin ' that this be my last night o ' life , Lord , gim me the pluck to die proud . An ' look 'ee kindly on my folks an ' the young 'uns .
FRIAR: Lord , grant us the courage to endure , and if you 're as smart as I believe you are , grant us victory and the victuals to celebrate it with .
ASLAN: I have prayed for you , often , my other . But , let us put praye aside and help our gods in a more practical manner . I must reveal to you the mysteries of the black powder .
ROBIN: Will it work ?
ASLAN: There is no such thing . But if there was I would surely be one .
ROBIN: We have no armored knights , no glorious banners . But I am honored to be going to battle in this company . Today we fight not just for the lives of our friends , ut to save all England .
FANNY: Seven ! She strides towards them from the trees .
LITTLE JOHN: What in blazes ya doin ' , woman ? Where 's the little 'uns ?
FANNY: Them 's safe , wi ' my mother . Robin , I been to town an ' seen the scaffold and the guard towers .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya gone bleedin ' cracked , girl ?
FANNY: You go an ' birth eight babies and then you can come an ' tell me 'bout hurtin ' , ya big ox . I ai n't gon na sit aroun ' an ' let one o ' 'em die , neither .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya should be bloody well mindin ' the other seven . Tell 'er , Rob .
ROBIN: Fanny , show me the exact location of the scaffold . Little John double-takes .
NOTTINGHAM: How is my bride ?
MARIAN: I will never marry you .
MORTIANNA: Hold her ! Marian struggles against her bonds .
MARIAN: Get away from me , you disgusting hag . I will not augh !
NOTTINGHAM: When we are married , thirty of the northern barons will pledge me their support as king . As you predicted .
MORTIANNA: The union . The blood of the lion and the house of Nottingham . New faith . New power . New souls .
NOTTINGHAM: Di not give me riddles , woman . We are to be married within hours . How can we be in danger ?
MORTIANNA: The blood does not lie .
NOTTINGHAM: Tell me how it will result .
MORTIANNA: I have told you what I know .
NOTTINGHAM: Confound you , crone . Without my protection , the people would hunt you down , rip out your black heart and burn it .
MORTIANNA: Without me , you are nothing . You are straw , a fleabite , a speck . Laugh , fool . I birthed you from this body . I stole a babe in this very castle , and killed it so that you might rise in its place . You are my son . Together we are strong . Now is not the time to doubt . Now is the time to believe , to be bold . The old will prevail .
GUARD: What you got there , Father ?
FRIAR: The Lord 's finest brew for the good Nottingham 's fighting men . It has a mighty kick .
GUARD: I 'll warrant . Pass .
WILL SCARLET: Sheriff ! My Lord Sheriff ! I have word for you ! Of Robin Hood !
NOTTINGHAM: Ah , the turncoat . Did you succeed ?
WILL SCARLET: I found his lair , but alas he still lives .
NOTTINGHAM: Stretch his neck with the others .
WILL SCARLET: He He is here !
NOTTINGHAM: Locksley , here ? Where ? Will struggles to get free of his holders .
WILL SCARLET: Call off your dogs .
NOTTINGHAM: Release him ! Now , where is he ?
WILL SCARLET: I want your word , in front of these witnesses . If I tell you , I will go free .
NOTTINGHAM: We will find him .
WILL SCARLET: He is concealed . He is going to free the prisoners and stop the wedding .
NOTTINGHAM: Put Hood in my hands , you go free .
WILL SCARLET: With the reward . Ten thousand crowns .
NOTTINGHAM: Damn your worthless hide ! Just tell me where he is .
WILL SCARLET: The reward !
NOTTINGHAM: You 'll get your reward . Where is he ?
FRIAR: Out of the way . Make way fo the Lord 's business .
NOTTINGHAM: Step down , friar .
FRIAR: As you wish , sire . Is there something amiss ?
NOTTINGHAM: This man claims you have outlaws concealed in these barrels . Among them the cursed Robin Hood . Tuck glares at Will with unconcealed hatred .
FRIAR: This man will rot in hell as a knave and a liar . These are libations for the celebration of your lordship 's nuptials .
NOTTINGHAM: Break one open !
FRIAR: Why waste fine vintage , my lord ? A cask is shattered wine torrents out .
WILL SCARLET: Try another . There are many arrels , only a few outlaws .
SENTRY: What is your business , woman ?
FANNY: Ai n't doin ' no 'arm , m'dear . Likes a good 'angin ' , I do . Luvly view up 'ere , ai n't it ?
WOUNDED SOLDIER: Give room for a fightin ' man and his ma . Step aside , or I 'll make ya . I wan na see the bastards walk on air .
FANNY: 'Bout time , ya gurt lug .
HAL: Here By God Let 's fight 'em !
WOODSMAN: Hal ! What happened to you stutter ?
HAL: It 's gg ggg g..oh crap ! A guard attacks , Hal fells him .
CHIEFTAIN: Impostor ! You dishonor the clan .
LITTLE JOHN: Fight fair
LITTLE JOHN: Or do n't fight at all .
GREYBEARD BARON: Up there ! No mercy , shoot them !
WILL SCARLET: Pain or death , you butcher ?
NOTTINGHAM: Here 's another message to Robin Hood , written in your blood .
WILL SCARLET: It 's over , fool . You can kill my ody , but you can not kill ou spirit .
REDHEAD BARON: It 's Hood ! Get him !
CHIEFTAIN: I am iron . I am rock . I am you death .
ASLAN: You talk too much !
NOTTINGHAM: Lower the portcullis ! Now !
ROBIN: Friends ! We must raise the gate .
LITTLE JOHN: Come on , ya ckicken-'earted buggers . Ya milksops , ya bleedin ' pansies .
NOTTINGHAM: Seal the entrance . Guard it with your lives . Bring the bishop to my chapel .
BISHOP: They are rebelling . We must escape .
NOTTINGHAM: Marry us . When I am declared king , that rabble will not dare go against us .
BISHOP: Is is madness to delay .
MORTIANNA: Face them , or face me .
ROBIN: Light all the barrels , Tuck .
ROBIN: Jump !
ASLAN: For Allah ! For Jehovah ! For brotherhood ! Fo justice !
ROBIN: Where is she ? Where is Lady Marian ?
ROBIN: Ah ! There is my answer .
FRIAR: My son , there is a holy war being waged outside . Release all these wretches and God shall surely find you a place in heaven .
JAILER: I 'd rather go to hell !
BISHOP: your bodies to be bound in immortal wedlock . Do you , Marian Dubois , take The chapel DOORS SHATTER inward .
ROBIN: Marian , run ! It 's me , Robin . Run !
ROBIN: I warned you , I would find you no matter what .
NOTTINGHAM: No companions ? No army ? You rush to your death for the sake of a woman . Lust has turned you into a fool Recognize this , Locksley ?
FRIAR: The Lord helps those who help themselves .
LITTLE JOHN: Ya gutless bloody sissies .
WULF: Sorry , Father . Could n't help myself .
LITTLE JOHN: Well , ya 'll get a bloody good wallopin ' if we get 'ome Fo now , let 's see how well I taught ya .
HAL: No ! Fight on . Fight !
FRIAR: Sinners , beware ! God 's avengers are at hand . Dying , Hal manages a weak smile .
HAL: Go ' bless ya , Tuck . Tuck flails a chain at a Celt .
FRIAR: Repent , heathen !
FANNY: Listen ! Outside , your countrymen ise against the Sheriff .
NOTTINGHAM: You should have stayed away , Locksley . Fools like you neve learn .
ASLAN: Ali akbar !
FRIAR: Amen !
MORTIANNA: Agh the painted one !
FRIAR: So ! You sold your soul to the devil ?
BISHOP: No , I swear it , in God 's name .
FRIAR: Blasphemer ! You accuse innocent men of Druid worship while you practice the black arts yourself .
ROBIN: Watch out !
BISHOP: I am sure you would not strike a man of the cloth .
FRIAR: Think again !
ASLAN: What you fear is not below .
NOTTINGHAM: What can your puny God do fo you now ?
ROBIN: This is for my father .
MARIAN: Let me go ! Who are you ?
ROBIN: I 'm your sworn protector . Any way I see fit .
MARIAN: Robin ? Oh God , is that you ?
ROBIN: I think she 's feeling better .
LITTLE JOHN: We done it , mate . We clobbered the buggers .
FANNY: Are you 'urt ?
ROBIN: It will mend .
ASLAN: I 'm going home the easy way , Robin .
FRIAR: You die on me , you son of satan , and I swear I 'll bury you as a Christian in St. Catherine 's Cathedral with a thousand monks chanting prayers for you miserable soul . You hear me ?
ASLAN: I have no strength , Brother Tuck .
FRIAR: A fine friend you are ! By the grace of Allah and Jehovah we have won the day , and you want to give up the ghost . I 'll pickle your remains in mead , lay you in your grave with a pig for a companion , and mark it with a cross as big as this castle .
ASLAN: Please ! It hurts when I laugh .
FRIAR: See . There 's life in the heathen dog yet .
ROBIN: Here , Tuck . Look after him . You deserve each other .
CROWD: Robin Hood ! Robin Hood !
FRIAR: You may kiss the bride .
KING RICHARD: May I kiss the bride ?
ROBIN: Who would dare refuse his king 's equest ?
KING RICHARD: You look radiant , cousin .
ROBIN: We are deeply honored by You Majesty 's presence .
KING RICHARD: It is I who am honored , Lord Locksley . Thanks to you I still have a throne .
ASLAN: My friend , a word of advice Ride her better than your horse . Robin laughs .
COLONEL CALLAHAN: General Hummel ! This is a surprise !
HUMMEL: That 's the idea , Colonel .
ISHERWOOD: Son of a bitch
GOODSPEED: You owe me five dollars , Marvin .
ISHERWOOD: I was told this was exciting work .
GOODSPEED: Patience , Marvin . It has its moments . A KLAXON sounds . Isherwood smiles excitedly .
ISHERWOOD: Bosnian refugee camp ? I do n't get it .
ISHERWOOD: I 'm okay . Really . Let 's do it-
DR. LING: We have airlock , Bill . Proceed .
GOODSPEED: July 1 , 0.900 hours , agent william
ISHERWOOD: This is thrilling .
GOODSPEED: Careful , goddamn it Marvin !
ISHERWOOD: What 's hap what 's happening . ?
DR. LING: What 's the really bad news .
GOODSPEED: Chill , Marvin .
GOODSPEED: Get that away from me . I hate needles .
DR. LING: INJECT YOURSELF !
GOODSPEED: LONNER , WHERE 'S THE GODDAMNED WATER ?
DR. LONNER: It 's coming , it 's coming
GOODSPEED: I do n't like needles .
GOODSPEED: Hey honey .
CARLA: Wrote a new song . Wan na hear it ?
GOODSPEED: Not now .
CARLA: Boy , somebody 's in a bad mood .
GOODSPEED: Yeah , somebody 's in a bad mood .
CARLA: Better ?
CARLA: What happened baby . Tell me .
GOODSPEED: Had a close one .
CARLA: You want to talk about it ?
GOODSPEED: Not really .
CARLA: You know how I feel about what you do .
GOODSPEED: Could we change the subject ?
GOODSPEED: Hey ! Now there 's some good news .
CARLA: Okay . How 'bout Carla Goodspeed ?
CARLA: Billy , this probably is n't the best time Bill , I 'm uhhh .
FEMALE TOURIST: Is it really true no one escaped ?
HUMMEL: Not today . You go ahead .
CAPTAIN FRYE: General Hummel Captains Frye and Darrow .
HUMMEL: Deploy as planned , Captain . Aye , aye , sir .
AGENT WOOD: In that ?
CAPTAIN DARROW: Yes , sir , and to learn some people a lesson .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Well , sir , frankly EL I see that I am '
HUMMELS' OFFICERS: Yes , sir .
OTHER OFFICERS: Yes , sir .
CAPTAIN HENDRIX: But General , you 'll be prosecuted .
RAYDEN SINCLAIR: No . Give me the skinny .
GENERAL KRAMER: Frank , this is Albert Kramer .
HUMMEL: Hello Al . Howlre Judy and the kids ?
HUMMEL: Who is that . Identify yourself . Everyone stares at sinclair .
HAYDEN SINCLAIR: White House Chief of Staff Sinclair , General .
RAYDEN SINCLAIR: I 'm thirty-three .
NAVAL ATTACHE: The President calling from Moscow .
GENERAL KRAMER: Continue Frank .
GENERAL KRAMER: Frank , Jesus , this is classified information .
WOMACK: Is this true ? General Kramer , embarrassed , nods yes .
HUMMEL: Someone please gag that man .
GENERAL PETERSON: In a dense urban area , sixty , seventy
RAYDEN SINCLAIR: Well that 's not so bad
GENERAL KRAMER: 'Course he does .
AGENT WOOD: I 'll find out .
CARLA: Do n't stop do no stop .
GOODSPEED: Shit , shit , shit what time is it . Hello . I 'll be downstairs in ten minutes .
CARLA: Really ? Really ?
GENERAL KRAMER: You 've studied the architectural plans .
GENERAL KRAMER: The former warden ?
GOODSPEED: Why 's he going to help us now ?
GOODSPEED: Jesus look at this guy .
SANCHEZ: I 'm F.B.I . Special Agent in Charge Sanchez . Sanches sits . Mason stares at the table .
SANCHEZ: Hey . Easy . I just want to talk .
MASON: Do I remember Alcatraz .
SANCHEZ: Maybe there 's a gift in it for you .
MASON: Timeo danaos et dona ferentes .
MASON: Are you capable of reading , Sanchez ? SANCHEZ is getting flustered .
SANCHEZ: I do n't have time for this shit Yes . I can read .
MASON: The story of Alchimadus . Know it ?
SANCHEZ: No .
MASON: Thomas a Beckett . Heard of him ?
SANCHEZ: Maybe . Not really .
GOODSPEED: Archbishop of Canterbury . Imprisoned and executed by Henry the Second
GOODSPEED: Russian poet and dissident exiled to Siberia .
SANCHEZ: Look , I 'm asking the fucking questions here . You can trust the F.B.I .
GOODSPEED: You mind if uhm . I take a shot ?
SANCHEZ: He 'll eat him alive .
GOODSPEED: Take his cuffs off .
MASON: Who the fuck are you , Mother Theresa ? So much for Goodspeed 's confidence .
GOODSPEED: No actually , I 'm Bill Goodspeed .
MASON: What do you do for the F.B.I. , Goodspeed .
GOODSPEED: I 'm a field agent .
MASON: Tell me what you really do .
GOODSPEED: I 'm a chemical biological weapons expert .
MASON: You said I 'd be a free man . Define free
GOODSPEED: Uhm , well , emancipated . Unfettered .
GOODSPEED: I do n't understand .
GOODSPEED: Well yes I suppose
MASON: You suppose ?
GOODSPEED: Yes . You 'll be outside .
MASON: What 's happening on Alcatraz , Goodspeed ?
GOODSPEED: I think we can arrange that .
SANCHEZ: Why did n't you throw in a trip to Fiji ?
GOODSPEED: Sir , that 's a legal document .
MASON: one more thing a shave and a haircut . Hello Womack .
GENERAL PETERSON: You can . And you will . General Peterson walks off .
CARLA: Hi ! Bill and Carla ai n't in ! State your business ! Make it interesting !
CARLA: Like hell I 'm not She exits , slamming the door .
MASON: You learn that line in Cub Scouts , Goodspeed ?
MARSHAL CORD: Put 'em on . You 've got forty-five minutes .
MASON: You going to stand there and watch ?
MARSHAL CORD: That 's right .
MASON: well if it excites-you
MARSHAL CORD: Put the goddamn clothes on .
BARBER: I ca n't do a decent job with these .
MASON: Shall we do this outside ? In the sunshine ?
BARBER: How would you like it sir ?
MASON: whatever 's in style .
MASON: Good . Thank-you .
GOODSPEED: Jesus JESUS CHRIST .
MASON: - Drop the gun or I 'll drop your boss .
F.B.I. AGENT: Holy shit , we got a jumper . F.B.I . AGENT 2 raises binoculars to his eyes .
JADE ANGELOU: Hello ?
MASON: Is this Jade Angelou ?
JADE ANGELOU: Yes . Who is this ?
MASON: John Mason . Do n't be shocked . I do n't have much time . Please listen carefully .
MOTORCYCLE KID: Way cool .
GOODSPEED: Neither is this .
ISHERWOOD: Chem weapons . Isherwood .
GOODSPEED: Hit nine nine nine nine .
MASON: Jade .
MASON: Let 's uhm let 's walk a ways . They walk off next to a TALL HEDGE . GOODSPEED
JADE: So how long have you been out ?
MASON: A while .
MASON: I 'm here with you , are n't I ?
JADE: Why now ? I mean why today .
MASON: I tried to explain in my letters .
MASON: I see . Bloody prison censors .
JADE: How about explaining now ? In the b.g . we HEAR POLICE SIRENS . MASON looks around .
MASON: Maybe this is n't the best time Jade . Here sitdown .
MASON: We are the same blood .
JADE: But I do n't know you .
MASON: where to begin . My name is John Paul Mason . I 'm Scottish .
JADE: No . You 're doing okay .
JADE: He is ?
GOODSPEED: Yes madam . We 've got to go , John .
MASON: Jade - remember what I said .
GOODSPEED: No cuffs until we get to the cars , They continue toward the waiting cars .
GOODSPEED: You almost got me killed . Twice .
MASON: Hows your jaw ?
GOODSPEED: It hurts .
MASON: Pleased to meet you .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Okay , one more time down this second fork
COMMANDER ANDERSON: That 's not what you said three minutes ago .
MASON: It 's not ?
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Excuse me . Womack .
MASON: You son-of-fucking-Satan .
GOODSPEED: No sir , but I 've studied them .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: So you 've never been in a combat situation .
GOODSPEED: No sir .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Wo n't be necessary .
GOODSPEED: Sir , these are very complicated devices
GOODSPEED: Sir ?
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Get him some gear . MASON stares at Goodspeed .
S.E.A.L. DANDO: Nice to meet you too . SANCHEZ enters .
SANCHEZ: You look like shit .
GOODSPEED: Thank you .
SANCHEZ: You 're not wimping out on us , Goodspeed .
SANCHEZ: Chemical Weapons is n't a cakewalk , Goodspeed . GOODSPEED splashes cold water on his face .
SANCHEZ: Spit it out .
GOODSPEED: My girlfriend 's pregnant .
SANCHEZ: What 's the really bad news .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Seventeen hours left . What the fuck is he
HUMMEL: Hummel .
GENERAL KRAMER: Who 's Dave Ridgeway , Frank ?
LOUIS LINDSTROM: This is going nowhere Frank .
LOUIS LINDSTROM: What 's the word from Mojave ?
LOUIS LINDSTROM: Greenlight the S.E.A.L . incursion . General Kramer picks up the phone and CUT TO
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Listen up , men . Mr. MASON
S.E.A.L. SHEPHERD: one aluminum fork and one quart of motor oil in a squeeze tube .
GOODSPEED: Motor oil ?
MASON: For cottonmouth . GOODSPEED and the S.E.A.L.s exchange looks .
MASON: After you , 'lace . ''
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Activate mini-cams .
NAVAL MEDIC: Atropine . Any contact with the gas , use it .
GOODSPEED: Uhn uhn . I hate needles .
SANCHEZ: Mini-cams operational .
CARLA: Would you please tell me what is going on ?
AGENT CORD: Ca n't do that , malam . Sorry .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: You know what you 're doing ?
MASON: Yes . Little fancier than I 'm used to .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Prepare to deplore !
GOODSPEED: Wait a minute . What if this thing crashes
BAXTER: Decoy ?
ROYCE: You heard the man , let 's move it .
BAXTER: Nothing .
HUMMEL: Tell 'em to stay out there .
S.E.A.L. BOYER: Skipper , blow it or burn it ?
MASON: Wait for me to unlock the door .
MASON: Under there .
MASON: True . I memorized their timing .
S.E.A.L. SHEPHERD: Uhh sir , you said never leave his side
MASON: That 's been said to me before . MASON takes a deep breath and he rolls
S.E.A.L. REIGERT: Who the fuck is this guy ? Houdini ?
MASON: Welcome to the Rock .
S.E.A.L. DANDO: She 's at least three inches thick sir .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Shit . Burn it .
MASON: Guys are worthless .
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Who is this guy ?
COMMANDER ANDERSON: Stand fast . We 'll secure the area .
SANCHEZ: What 's thatwhat the hell is that ?
GOODSPEED: What 's going on ?
S.E.A.L. SHEPHERD: Do n't know .
HUMMEL: Drop your weapons .
SANCHEZ: Oh Christ this is n't happening .
S.E.A.L. REIGERT: Get a grip on yourself .
GOODSPEED: Don ' t do it .
S.E.A.L. SHEPHERD: Let go of me . Lt. Shepherd climbs the ladder .
HUMMEL: HOLD YOUR FIRE HOLD YOUR FIRE .
SANCHEZ: It 's over .
GOODSPEED: We 're never gettin off this island .
GOODSPEED: Wait . Where 're you going ?
MASON: Off this island . You mind ?
GOODSPEED: Yes I mind . I mind very much .
SANCHEZ: Goodspeed , Goodspeed , come in .
MASON: You 've got a phone call .
GOODSPEED: It 's me sir .
SANCHEZ: What is happening ? Where 's Mason ?
GOODSPEED: He says he 's leaving the island sir .
SANCHEZ: Do n't let him do that .
GOODSPEED: He 's got a gun , sir .
HUMMEL: I never wanted this . Jesus christ .
BAXTER: We knew it might happen , Frank .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Maybe now they 'll pay up .
CAPTAIN HENDRIX: Maybe now they wo n't .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Then maybe we 'll execute a few hostages .
S.E.A.L. DANDO: You 'll go to hell for this General .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Put a bullet in him .
CAPTAIN FRYE: You heard him . End it . Cpt . Darrow pulls his sidearm and levels it .
HUMMEL: CAPTAIN , HOLSTER THAT SIDEARM .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Yes sir . Royce kneels . Feels Dandols carotid artery .
ROYCE: He 's dead anyway sir .
HUMMEL: You have a made a terrible mistake and more
GOODSPEED: would you stop . Just stop .
CAPTAIN HENDRIX: Rodents located .
GOODSPEED: F.B.I . Stop right there . I really mean it .
MASON: If you really mean it , take the safety off .
GOODSPEED: Now he has all the guns , sir . .
GOODSPEED: Now what ?
GOODSPEED: I do n't get it . You 're going to help me ?
GOODSPEED: You do n't have to get all bent out of shape .
MASON: Stop . There . And there .
MASON: Never hesitate .
GOODSPEED: You did n't learn that in prison .
MASON: No , and I used to be a lot quicker .
MASON: What exactly does this do to you ?
MASON: Sounds like my first marriage .
GOODSPEED: Pier 39 come in .
HUMMEL: Gamble , Starling . Come in . MASON and GOODSPEED exchange a nervous look .
MASON: C'mon c'mon . faster . GOODSPEED nearly drops a chem round . MASON ecoils .
GOODSPEED: Shut up ; you 're making me nervous .
MASON: They 'll be on us in twenty seconds .
HUMMEL: Hendrix ! Take Royce and Scarpetti ! CAPTAIN HENDRIX and PVTS . ROYCE and SCARPETTI dive into the incinerato chute after MASON and Goodspeed .
BAXTER: Gamble and Starling are dead .
CAPTAIN HENDRIX: FOLLOW ON FOOT !
MASON: BRAKE ! ! !
GOODSPEED: Mason ! In the midst of this PVT . ROYCE uns up . Sees MASON concussed ,
GOODSPEED: I rolled snake-eyes . Shithead .
MASON: Limp dick ?
GOODSPEED: It 's all I could think of . They stumble off down the mono-rail tunnel .
MASON: I think I 've got arthritis .
LOUIS LINDSTROM: What 's the word from Mojave , General ?
GENERAL KRAMER: They 're going as fast as they can . A corrugated aluminum hangar . SUPER
LT. FISK: We 're fucked , cap ' n .
HUMMEL: Attention Navy Seals , attention . MASON and GOODSPEED freeze .
GOODSPEED: He thinks we 're Seals .
HUMMEL: Congratulations . You 've taken some things
MALE VOICE: Hell hello .
HUMMEL: Tell them your name and age .
HUMMEL: Good Mr. Henderson , continue
HUMMEL: Convinced ? Mr. Henderson hopes so . You have two minutes . GOODSPEED turns to Mason .
GOODSPEED: I 'll go .
MASON: Wrong .
GOODSPEED: What , vou ?
MASON: I 'm not the chemical weapons expert .
GOODSPEED: Good point . Okay here , take 'em .
MASON: Now they only have three rockets left .
GOODSPEED: What about Mr. Henderson ?
MASON: Hummel 's a soldier , not a murderer .
GOODSPEED: Wait .
GOODSPEED: I I do n't know if I can do this .
GOODSPEED: Well thank-you , thank-you very much .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Got ta be kidding me . They send an old man .
MASON: John Paul Mason . Royal Navy . Commander .
MASON: I feel strangely at home .
HUMMEL: How 's that ?
MASON: You would n't believe me if I told you .
MASON: Quite unique .
HUMMEL: How 's that ?
MASON: I was a guest here .
GOODSPEED: Freeze . Drop the weapon and turn around . Slowly .
HUMMEL: Give me the guidance chips .
MASON: I threw them in the bay .
HUMMEL: That was stupid of you .
MASON: Would you have shot him7
GOODSPEED: Mason . Mason ?
MASON: It 's about time .
GOODSPEED: Where are you ?
MASON: Above you . Literally and figuratively .
GOODSPEED: This is tiny .
GOODSPEED: The cell , Mason .
MASON: Surprise , surprise .
GOODSPEED: How ?
GENERAL PETERSON: Captain Giler ?
GOODSPEED: Jesus .
MASON: What ?
GOODSPEED: Hey ! Hey what 's happening ? Mason . Mason ?
GOODSPEED: Shit .
HUMMEL: Time .
BAXTER: Fifteen minutes Frank .
HUMMEL: I heard you Captain .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Prepare for launch General ? General ?
HUMMEL: Not yet .
CAPTAIN FRYE: General Hummel , noon is approaching .
HUMMEL: I 'm aware of the time , Captain .
GENERAL KRAMER: Seven hours ago .
GOODSPEED: Mason . John . What happened - the injustice done
MASON: Only one of them I care about .
GOODSPEED: You were once a different man .
MASON: You do n't know what kind of man I was .
HUMMEL: They 're going to call .
CAPTAIN FRYE: They are not going to call General .
HUMMEL: I I do n't understand this .
HUMMEL: Atom ?
BAXTER: I ' I do n't know Frank .
CAPTAIN FRYE: You did n't ever what ? You did n't ever what , General ? General , forty-eight hours ago I was in
CAPTAIN DARROW: Authorize the launch , General . Hummel nods and
GOODSPEED: You 'll never make it .
GOODSPEED: Fine . I 'll fuckin , do it myself .
HUMMEL: Launch coordinates 675 dash 439 .
HUMMEL: Fire .
GOODSPEED: That change things ?
GOODSPEED: Partners ?
MASON: Partners . The two men clasp hands and
CIWTER FISHERMAN: What the hell . ?
CAPTAIN FRYE: I do n't believe it . He pulled the plug . Frye , disgusted , races down the STAIRS .
HAYDEN SINCLAIR: They need a decision Mr. President .
CAPTAIN FRYE: You 're gutless . I knew it .
CAPTAIN DARROW: The problem is now thev know it .
CAPTAIN FRYE: I 'm in .
CAPTAIN DARROW: Major ? Major Baxter looks from Darrow to Hummel .
HUMMEL: Tom ?
BAXTER: It 's over Frank . I 'm in . Hummel blinks . He ca n't believe this .
HUMMEL: Tom , I warn you .
BAXTER: Stand down , General .
HUMMEL: I 'm giving you a direct order .
BAXTER: I 'm not accepting it .
MASON: FIRES through the slit , killing Baxter as
HUMMEL: My god what have I done
HUMMEL: Lower lighthouse
GOODSPEED: Do n't
CAPTAIN DARROW: Give that to me .
CAPTAIN DARROW: You know how this shit works ?
GOODSPEED: You know the Elton John son , `` Rocket Man '' ?
CAPTAIN DARROW: I hate it . Darrow lunges . GOODSPEED stabs the IGNITION SWITCH . The VX ROCKET
CAPTAIN FRYE: Give me the guidance chip . Frye raises his M-16 as GOODSPEED
MASON: Snakes hate the stuff .
CAPTAIN FRYE: You 're comin , with me .
SANCHEZ: May god have mercy gn their souls .
CARLA: You ca n't do this , you ca n't let this happen .
SANCHEZ: Abort . Abort immediately .
GOODSPEED: Pier 39 come in . Pier 39 My god he 's alive . Director Womack grabs the mike .
MASON: Womack ripped it up , right ?
GOODSPEED: You knew ? All this time ?
MASON: I 'm not a fool , Billy .
GOODSPEED: God 's speed .
MASON: Yes . To wish someone a prosperous jouey . MASON smiles . GOODSPEED smiles back . There is an immediate tacit understanding .
GOODSPEED: What 's that ? Mason ?
GOODSPEED: Neither did I sir .
SANCHEZ: Yes Poor son-of-a-bitch .
GOODSPEED: Bill Goodspeed , Mr. President .
GOODSPEED: Director Womack .
THE END: < /pre
ONE TWO: We need to see a Lawyer .
LAWYER TYPE: They say it 's only going one way .
COUNCILOR: Tell them they 'll get the planning ,
LAWYER TYPE: You 'll get the planning . Take care of the councilor and it will move like shit through a goose .
ONE TWO: We need help .
MUMBLES: Lenny Cole ?
ONE TWO: Dog number one ,
MUMBLES: But he moves fast and he loves bricks and mortar .
LENNY COLE: I do move fast and I love bricks and mortar , properties are always the safe bet , but you better know what you 're doing 'cos this ai n't soft money . You trip up , And it 's not me that 's gon na get hurt . You got security ?
MUMBLES: We got property .
LENNY COLE: Do n't let me down boys . Come on then , give us your hand . They shake hands and sign the papers .
COUNCILOR: Ca n't talk now , but there has been a problem . I ca n't get you the planning .
LAWYER TYPE: I 'm sorry boys , ca n't get the planning .
ONE TWO: He ca n't get the planing .
MUMBLES: He ca n't get the planing ?
LENNY COLE: What do you mean you ca n't get the fuckin planning ? There is seven million of my cash in there , without planning it 's worth five , you owe me . I take the uilding , you lose your share , but I am still outta pocket two large ones . Find it .
LENNY COLE: Is that you Councilor ? I hear you got that car you was after , .now , sort the planning out .
ARCHY: That 's a bit strong is n't it Len ? They come from the same place as you , you 'll clean 'em out .
LENNY COLE: Same place as me ? Do I look like an immigrant Archy ? No one gave me a leg up , did they ? They need a bit of fear , 'cos otherwise they 're gon na come up against me , need a little lesson do n't they ?
ONE TWO: We got ta sell .
MUMBLES: And be left with what ?
ONE TWO: Just got ta start again , .
URI: Glad you could join us here Lenny .
LENNY COLE: It 's nice to see you Uri .
URI: Good . I can see we are very much alike you and I Lenny . We like to get things done . What 's it going to cost me ?
LENNY COLE: First , let me make clear how much we can help you benefit from this deal . With out me , it will take you five to ten years to get the permission to erect your arena . Second , with Government policy as it so stands we both know it 's unlikely that you 'd ever get that consent . Thirdly , in legal fees , transactions and building consent , you 'd be paying 6 to 12 million without any real guarantee of that result .
URI: So Lenny , .. how much ?
LENNY COLE: Seven million Euros . Still unfazed .
URI: I expect a guarantee that I have consent within six months and no red tape .
LENNY COLE: That 's right Uri , you can conside that done . Pause while tension stews , then ,
URI: Drink ! Follow me .
LENNY COLE: Oh , that 's a nice picture Uri , has n't it got , errrh depth ?
URI: That picture has brought me nothing ut luck Lenny , ..it 's my lucky picture . You like ? Take it for a while , maybe it will give you luck .
LENNY COLE: Oh I could n't Uri , Still absorbed with the painting .
URI: Now we 're partners , I insist . I will get it sent around to your house and you can give it back to me when our deal is finalized .
LENNY COLE: I thought you lot drunk Vodka .
URI: Whiskey is the new Vodka .
LENNY COLE: You not joining me Uri ?
URI: I do n't drink .
LENNY COLE: Oh , cheers then ,
URI: To success .
ARCHY: You all right there Len ? You look a little pink .
LENNY COLE: Turbo , get us a perrier and a wet wipe live-o . Lenny 's panting .
ARCHY: So , how 's the billionaires club ?
LENNY COLE: That Communism did n't seem to slow 'em down did it ? We 've hit the big time here Archy boy ! What 's wrong ? Where 's the old Archy smile ?
ARCHY: You wan na watch out there . Times are changing , they do n't have too much respect for the old school .
LENNY COLE: Shut up Archy , No school like the old school , I still run this town see ? That 's why he came to me right ? Got that ?
ARCHY: Yeah , got that .
VICTOR: You think you should have leant him your lucky picture ?
URI: It makes the peasant feel royal , do n't spoil it , we need him at the moment . I want that consent . Call the accountant and get her to clear the money .
STELLA: Look , can we shut the door ?
TAX MAN: Shut the door . His colleague gets up and shuts the door .
STELLA: Let 's put our cards on the table . We both know you are n't going to get the full forty out of my clients .
TAX MAN: This is the tax office and in the end we get what we want .
STELLA: Save that speech for the tourists Charlie and let 's strike a deal - take the twenty now and let it go . Otherwise , they 'll move the company off shore tomorrow and you 'll spend the next twenty years chasing an imaginary forty million around every epublic that grows bananas . Bertie lifts out papers from his brief case .
TAX MAN: I see why you married her now Bertie .
BERTIE: I told you we 'd make a great team , .. You know why you get those deals ? She looks relatively bored .
STELLA: I do n't feel like smiling . I am a thirty two year old accountant married to a homosexual lawyer . I 'm a beard without kids Bertie ! I 'm in a marriage of convenience that can be quite inconvenient at times .
BERTIE: Yes , she 's right here .
HANDSOME BOB: What are you talking about Fred ? They got an informer , a grass , and a at with a roach-smoking-a canary , ..they 've got more information than the fuckin Internet .
DOLLY: Language ,
MUMBLES: Leave him alone Fred , you 're stressing him out . Dolly get him a cuppa tea . Come on deal the cards Fred .
COOKIE: All right chaps ?
MUMBLES: Want to be dealt in ?
COOKIE: Ca n't stay for long , but throw us in for a quick spin .
ONE TWO: Mumbles , can I have a word ?
MUMBLES: What 's happening ?
ONE TWO: You know the lady , the posh one who likes abitta the rough life ?
MUMBLES: The accountant , what about her ? You have n't heard from her in a while , too dangerous that one .
ONE TWO: Says she 's got some work , you know , proper work . I would normally turn her down , but considering ,
MUMBLES: Let 's have a meet .
ONE TWO: I got one like that at home with a little boy fishing .
STELLA: Is that what they call humor where you come from ?
ONE TWO: Well , do n't they call that art where you come from ?
STELLA: You 're quite the entertainer are n't you Mr. One Two ? And you are late , please do n't be late , I have a very usy schedule .
STELLA: I have some work and thought you 'd e interested , its your kind of work .
ONE TWO: Go on .
STELLA: There are two accountants taking out seven million Euros from a bank I know and it wo n't be protected . Twenty percent for me , as normal . The details are in here . She passes an envelope .
ONE TWO: Anything else ?
STELLA: Yes , ..I do n't want this coming back to me so , if you could give them a lack eye , ..that might help .
ONE TWO: Ok , very good Mrs. Dexter , a black eye it is then . He looks down at her shoes .
STELLA: Why thank you , you 'll be able to afford your own pair in a couple of days . Good bye .
ROCKER: I need the dry ice Mickey , I need the dry ice . My show just does n't work without it .
MICKEY: If you told me yesterday you needed dry ice , I would have gotten you the driest ice the world could offer , ut you did n't ask for no dry ice . You asked for two cases of Johnny Walker black label and four ladies of the pole and I got them for you did n't I ? There 's a pause from the Rocker .
ROCKER: Yes you did I do confess , but Mickey , you 're the manager and I am the ocker . You 've got on the managers hat , now pluck something out of it .
MICKEY: My hat is deep and full of magic . I got rabbits , handkerchiefs , and ladies of the pole drinking Black Label . I got smoke machines , bubble machines , I even got love marines and still the hat goes deeper , but.there ai n't no mother fuckin dry ice .
ROMAN: Have you read this ?
MICKEY: What ? He reads out the headlines .
ROMAN: Johnny Story singer extraordinaire , fell off a boat , they say . Missing , assumed dead , they say .
MICKEY: What , ..our Johnny ?
ROMAN: How many rock stars by the name of Johnny Story do you think there are in this universe Mickey ?
MICKEY: The only thing he 's fallen off is his junkies spoon , he 's no deade than the suit you 're wearing now . He 'll be gearing himself up somewhere happy as clam in a fisherman 's net . Rockers like that never die , they just wither and give me pain .
LENNY COLE: Johnny Story singer extraordinare , fell off a boat , missing , assumed dead .
ARCHY: I do n't know what to say Lenny .
LENNY COLE: I bet he took a lot of people with him in his hot little crack pipe . We will never mention this again , all right Arch ?
ARCHY: Very good councilor , you must of had lessons as a boy . Fancy a cool down and a chat with Lenny ?
COUNCILOR: No , no , no , Archy , do n't say anything .
ARCHY: Do n't worry , she 's a friend , ..and a member . Jackie , ..fancy a run ' a'round with the Councilor ?
JACKIE: Only if he 's wicked .
COUNCILOR: What does she mean by that ?
ARCHY: I think she likes you boy-o .
LENNY COLE: They say that times are changing Councilor , that this country is n't what it used to be , it 's the new New York , they say . You being a political man must know all about that .
COUNCILOR: Errh , I think they are probably right , times have changed , but that should n't affect you Lenny .
LENNY COLE: They say it 's all gone `` international '' now , out with the old guard in with the new , but I think they 're wrong . Anyway , where are my manners ? Look at you sweaty as a native and pink as a pelican , and I have n't even offered you a wet one .
COUNCILOR: A lemonade and orange please .
LENNY COLE: Oh that 's nice , ..refreshing , that 'll put you back on top boy .
COUNCILOR: I do n't mind if I do , that 's a nice lighter .
LENNY COLE: Eight grand they wanted for it cheeky toads and I paid , you know why ?
COUNCILOR: Tell me Lenny .
LENNY COLE: 'Cos it 's all about the details . Looking at the plans .
COUNCILOR: Is our little deal in there too Lenny ?
LENNY COLE: Oh I would n't forget that , the most important things first .
COUNCILOR: Oh Lenny , you forgot your lighter . Lenny looks back to the Councilor .
LENNY COLE: Ca n't be mine , it 's got your name on it .
MUMBLES: Do n't you get bored of that ? I mean , your not really going anywhere . If you wan na run , why do n't you run to the shops or do something useful ?
ONE TWO: You could do with some of this yourself Mumbles , you 're letting yourself go . Anyway , I 'm busy , have you come to talk about anything important ?
MUMBLES: It 's all about the zone is n't it ?
ONE TWO: No Mumbles , I am trying to run away from you . Bob , you sorted out the car ?
HANDSOME BOB: Yeah , it looks like a heap of shit , ut it ca n't half go . A bit like you One Two . Mumbles turns to Handsome Bo
MUMBLES: I reckon he 's trying to get fit fo the lady . Nothing gets under his skin like a lady he ca n't have , does it ? A straight going , cocky , educated , arrogant posh bird trips him right up . I reckon we should set Handsome Bob on her . That 'll liven you up One Two .
ONE TWO: Bob would n't know where to begin .
HANDSOME BOB: I 'm good with the posh ones , do n't you worry about that .
ONE TWO: I 've had enough of this , can you two piss off cos I am trying to find my `` zone '' One Two sprints off leaving them behind .
MUMBLES: He ca n't half run for a white fella .
LENNY COLE: Archy ? You awake ? Never mind , you are now . I had a horrible dream that the Councilo did n't come through , I do n't want anything going wrong on this one , that Russian 's the key to the big time . You think he 's all right ?
BANDY: Where was it Len ?
LENNY COLE: Let 's take a wild stab in the dark shall we Bandy ? Archy slap him and then send him to school 'cos I ca n't take any more of this . You sort it out , get that picture back and bring me a body , I am going to back to ed . He stomps off to bed .
ARCHY: Bandy if you ever ask a stupid question like that again , you see Danny there ? He 's gon na slap you .
BANDY: Sorry Arch , it 's just , I was trying to use initiative .
ARCHY: Danny slap him .
DANNY: What is this a tennis match Arch ?
ARCHY: Slap him !
DANNY: But he never went to school .
ARCHY: Daniel , do you want a slap as well ? Now , if the slap does n't work , ..Cut 'emor pay 'em , but keep the eceipts 'cos this ai n't the Mafia . Now , get to work and find that painting .
MUMBLES: You ready ?
ONE TWO: Yup , load up boys and pay attention .
MUMBLES: Do n't be silly boys , do as you are told . Put the bags in the car , give him the keys and walk away smiling .
ONE TWO: Oi , come back here . The ACCOUNTANTS come back .
ACCOUNTANT: You have to lift up the nob unde the gear stick . One Two struggles , then finds the gear .
ONE TWO: Right , now fuck off .
MUMBLES: Slowly and keep smiling .
ONE TWO: Shit ,
MUMBLES: What ?
ONE TWO: I have got to hurt him . Oi come back here .
MUMBLES: Why ? What did he ever do to you ? Come on we 've got the money now let 's piss off !
ACCOUNTANT: Yes ?
ONE TWO: Shit , I ca n't do it .
MUMBLES: You 're an embarrassment to crime you are .
ONE TWO: She asked me to give him a black eye .
MUMBLES: She 's sick that bird of yours , sick . Quickly changing the subject .
ONE TWO: Is Handsome Bob behind ?
MUMBLES: He 's there .
URI: The developement has been underway for four years and will be completed within another two . The area covers twelve acres and it will become one of Londons premiere residences .
VICTOR: It 's not like the old country , it 's cowboys and Indians out here .
URI: We do n't have time to play games , ..people and business are waiting . Speak to the accountant and get some more money . And Victor , this time no problems .
ONE TWO: I know a man that 'll copy that fo you . Might take him a couple of minutes mind .
STELLA: You do n't need to copy anything any more , welcome to the nouveau riche Mr. One Two .
ONE TWO: Here 's one for you too Mrs Dexter .
STELLA: Why thank you Mr. One Two . I see you did n't think much of the black eye though .
ONE TWO: Would have liked to obliged , but from a professional point of view , it just was n't natural , Until next time then .
STELLA: Until next time .
HANDSOME BOB: She 's a looker ai n't she One Two ?
ONE TWO: She 's not for you Bob , that is class .
ARCHY: What , you got it all ?
LENNY COLE: Archy , the Russian did n't come through with the money .
ARCHY: Calm down Len , the Councilor can wait .
LENNY COLE: What , all of it ?
ARCHY: Ask no questions hear no lies . Just got ta do is find your painting now Len .
LENNY COLE: Just make sure you find it . I got ta another call . He switches calls .
COUNCILOR: I have all my people waiting Lenny . You ca n't let me down !
LENNY COLE: It 's just a delay , that 's all Councilor . Just a delay . He puts the phone down .
ARCHY: Stop here Turbo .
ARCHY: Gary .
GARY: Hello Arch . What brings you down here ? Want some tickets ?
ARCHY: I want the Tank .
GARY: You wo n't see him on the cobbles at this time of night , you know how much he likes the cold . He 's at the end of the street tucked up watching a Zulu movie .
TANK: Hello Arch , what you doing here ?
ARCHY: I need a word .
TANK: Well do n't stand out there on the cobbles it 's freezing , step into my world . Shavawn get us a couple of vanilla chai lattes , there 's a good girl . She disappears .
ARCHY: Turn it down a tad , I need to have a word . Tank flicks the pause button .
TANK: Where are my manners ? Sorry Arch , what do you want , tickets ? I got just the show for you , a Chinese orphan with a learning disability that do n't stop singing and dancing all the way through the first half . Then , up pops a Geisha girl and it all goes magical in the second ; the wife will love it and you ca n't get tickets for love nor ,
ARCHY: I do n't want tickets , I need you to find me a painting , a classic , been nicked outta of Lenny 's house . And since you got more feet on the street than coppers on the beat , I 'd like you to assist . I 'll leave you a little livener . There 's a large twenty to get some tongues wagging .
ONE TWO: Is that Archy ?
HANDSOME BOB: Not again , please Fred .
DOLLY: Who wants another cuppa ?
ONE TWO: Thank you .
MUMBLES: Glass of milk for me , my love .
MALCOLM: Good afternoon gentlemen .
MUMBLES: Where did you find these two junkies ?
ONE TWO: Shut up and tell us the price .
MALCOLM: All in good time gentlemen , all in good time . Paul , why do n't you sit down for a while .
MUMBLES: Have a look at that , it 's a six foot skunk .
MALCOLM: And all of this could be yours for a staggeringly low , Cut to Fred at the buzzer .
ARCHY: Fred , The speelers very quiet today , everything all right ?
ARCHY: All right Mumbles ? One Two ?
ONE TWO: What , ca n't you smell it ?
ARCHY: Silly bastards .
URI: They say there are only two days you enjoy a boat , the day you buy it and the day you sell it .
STELLA: Well , according to my figures that sounds about right , but what can you do ? Beauty is a cruel mistress . He smiles , she is smart , he fancies her .
URI: I must remember that line . Can I pour you a glass ?
STELLA: Not for me thank you .
URI: You know , I like you . I like the way youare . Always thinking about usiness , very professional .
STELLA: That 's what you pay me to be , is n't it ? He nods .
URI: Tell me about your husband . Slightly uncomfortable
STELLA: My husband is a lawyer .
URI: I hear he is very good at what he does , maybe we can have some work for him .
STELLA: I do n't quite know where this is going and if you do n't mind , I would like to keep our relationship professional .
URI: You see Victor , this is what I am talking about . This is what I like about this country . They understand hierarchy - you do your job , I do mine and everyone gets along .
STELLA: Forgive me for being immodest M Omovich . I am a very good accountant , ut I can only cover so much of you money , it does have to be accounted for after all . It is not easy to lose seven million to the tax man .
URI: But , if you are so good , . She huffs and puffs .
STELLA: Let me think about it , there are some options I have tried to leave open .
URI: Thank you .
TANK: You know why they call me Tank do n't you Archy ?
ARCHY: I should imagine it has something to do with you being a dirty great lac ,
TANK: Think Tank . Nothing gets past the old think Tank Arch , nothing . You got me thinking , so I fired a few questions into the right direction . Thought I 'd better come see you 'cos I got some news 'bout your painting .
LENNY COLE: Right , I am going to tell you how this works . You 're going in the drink and I am going to make a cup of tea .
ONE TWO: Come on Bob , cheer up .
HANDSOME BOB: What have I got to cheer up about , I am going to be locked up in an eight y ten tomorrow night .
ONE TWO: But that 's tomorrow night , tonight its take off time , we 've prepared a little going away party . I got `` the Harris twins '' the most expensive escort girls to have eve escorted .
HANDSOME BOB: It 's not that I am ungrateful One Two , it 's just , .
ONE TWO: It 's just what ?
HANDSOME BOB: Do n't worry , ..you would n't understand . Pause for a concerned thought from One Two .
ONE TWO: I understand anything coming from you Bobby boy .
HANDSOME BOB: Would you ?
ONE TWO: You 're me best mate . There is a pause from Handsome Bob .
HANDSOME BOB: I do n't want the strippers One Two , . I want you , .
ONE TWO: You dirty bastard ! I know all you girlfriends all of 'em !
HANDSOME BOB: See , I told you you would n't understand !
ONE TWO: Understand what ?
HANDSOME BOB: I only told you cos I 'm going away , ut I should have kept my mouth shut .
ONE TWO: Fuckin right you should have kept your mouth shut , should have drowned the cat instead of letting it out the bag .
LENNY COLE: Hose 'em down Danny . Get those cray fish off 'em . Now , who has that painting ? One name .
DROWNED SLOANE: Johnny , Johnny Story . You know the singer in that group Story Time . This means something to Lenny .
LENNY COLE: That did n't work did it ? How can a dead man sell you a painting ?
DROWNED SLOANE: He 's not dead , I know he 's not dead ecause he just tried to sell us that picture and changed his mind at the last minute . He 's got like an obsession with it . Lenny 's face contorts with anger .
LENNY COLE: Put 'em back Arch , before I shoot 'em . The TWO SLOANES scream in horror .
DROWNED SLOANE: Jesus ! I know him , I know who he is , we went to school with him . We 're telling the truth , we 're telling the ,
ARCHY: Len , could I have a word ? Private , .. it 's worth it .
LENNY COLE: Do n't you dare call him my boy .
ARCHY: Sorry , I mean your boy , the Ex 's oy , your step son . He had a set of keys to the house did n't he ? Lenny 's red as a beetroot .
LENNY COLE: He wo n't die that cockroach .
ARCHY: Roman and Mickey .
LENNY COLE: If anyone can find that smoking crack pipe , it 's them .
JOHNNY STORY: Just could n't , it 's got me , that 's what art does Pete , it gets you .
PETE: You 'd get a good few notes for that . Go on John , jog it on .
JOHNNY STORY: You would n't understand .
PETE: Why not ?
JOHNNY STORY: Because , ..You , . Are street scum Pete .
PETE: Leave off John , what is this shrink time ?
JOHNNY STORY: Come on Pedro , share . I 'm you sponsor , Doctor , your dad if you 're feeling a bit of regression coming on . But first we should have a drink in our hands .
PETE: My Dad made me watch Bonanza every Sunday after church .
JOHNNY STORY: That 's got to have done some damage , all those guns and cowboys .
PETE: You think ? It was n't all bad , he sometimes made me laugh too .
JOHNNY STORY: Now we 're getting somewhere . Did he interfere with you ? You know , touch you inappropriate like ?
PETE: He tickled me if that 's what you mean .
JOHNNY STORY: Now that 's it ! That 's what I was looking for , you see your Dad is a monster Pedro , a tickling monster . Pedro 's dad 's a tickling monster !
WASTER: That 's my drink .
PETE: Fuck you singalong , you 're no help and stop calling me Pedro .
JOHNNY STORY: Come on boy , I 'll have you and ya girlfriends ! I 'll do the lot of yazz .
PETE: He hit me bad as well the slag . Hit with a chain . Pete starts to lift up his shirt .
JOHNNY STORY: What are you doing ? I 'm not going to tickle you Pete , I 'm not you Dad .
PETE: I used to think it had something to do with Bonanza .
JOHNNY STORY: Your dad was jealous . Cos you dad is n't sure he 's your dad , cos you do n't look like him .
PETE: Really ? What do I look like then ?
JOHNNY STORY: You have all the facial characteristics of North American native , Livapuddlian Indian .
PETE: Really ?
SECRETARY: Mickey , ..Roman , there are fou gentlemen who ,
ARCHY: Who wan na see you two .
SECRETARY: I 'm sorry Mickey .
MICKEY: Do n't worry about it June , go and have another lunch .
LENNY COLE: Sorry to intrude . They call this a lichee do n't they ?
ROMAN: I believe so .
LENNY COLE: Tasty exotic , bit like your suit .
ROMAN: How can we help ?
LENNY COLE: Do n't you have an act called Story Time ?
ROMAN: We did .
LENNY COLE: And is n't there a lead singer called Johnny Story ?
ROMAN: There was .
LENNY COLE: Well , I would like to see Mr Johnny Story .
ROMAN: I would like to see him too , but that might be tricky 'cos according to the newspapers the only songs M Story is going to be singing is hymns .
LENNY COLE: And I shed a tear . I shed it fo all those bone tops that read the papers and believe that shit . Have you seen his body ? Have you seen him smacked up and cracked up with his tongue on his chin and his cock in his hand , swinging from the afters , like a real rock ' n ' rolla ? No , you did n't did you ? And nobody else fuckin did either , did they 'cos he ai n't dead . He 's alive-alive- o somewhere selling cockles and mussels , and a very important painting that does n't belong to him .
ROMAN: Sorry , but what has this got to do with us ?
LENNY COLE: You have twelve licenses within a jurisdiction which I control . You wan na play on , do what I tell you . Now , I can tell what you 're thinking .
ROMAN: That there 's not much you ca n't do ?
ARCHY: Slow down tinker bell , you 'll neve sing the same if ya teeth are n't your own . Pause .
MICKEY: You gon na take care of him ?
LENNY COLE: What do you think we are , gangsters ? That 's not my style and especially not with genetics and all ,
COOKIE: Where have you been ? You were missed in court today . That 's not very compassionate is it , did n't turn up for your amigos funeral .
ONE TWO: What are you trying to say Fred ?
HANDSOME BOB: Guess whoooo ?
ONE TWO: Five years , you were supposed to get five fucking years !
DOLLY: One Two there 's a woman on the phone for you , she sounds very educated .
ONE TWO: How did you get this number ?
STELLA: I need a favor . My husbands having a party tonight and they need some `` smarties '' but they have nowhere to go . Look , I know it 's a liberty , ut I thought you might know people . Plus , I have another bit of work fo you . You can bring your friends . There will be interesting people - the ich and famous , the great and good .
ONE TWO: Let me see what I can do .
URI: You 're looking well Lenny .
LENNY COLE: Well thank you Uri , that 's a real compliment from a man that obviously takes good care of himself .
URI: I suppose you 're wondering why you are here ?
LENNY COLE: I assume you want to check that everything is still `` kosher '' at my end . I was a little surprised you did n't come through at the appropriate time , ut I reckon you have your reasons . Silence .
URI: I assume everything is still as you say , Kosher ?
LENNY COLE: Do n't you worry Uri , that one 's on me , partners and all that , but I would n't like it to go south again , makes things difficult , if you know what I mean ?
URI: I understand Lenny and I would n't like things to go wrong either . Which brings me conveniently to my next point . Ever since the painting , my lucky painting , has n't been hanging on my wall , things have not een , .so lucky . I know this is a ude request because we have not concluded our business , but I feel as though I need it .
ARCHY: Fuckin hell Len , he 's given you that ar tan again . You wan na leave that vodka alone .
LENNY COLE: Shut up Arch !
ARCHY: Everything all right ?
LENNY COLE: No it 's fuckin not all right , he want 's his painting , his lucky painting . Archy looks a little worried .
ARCHY: Oh , I see . That 's a bit of a problem then is n't it ?
LENNY COLE: You should have seen his eyes I swore they changed color , went fuckin red they did .
ARCHY: They do n't care who 's soil they are on that lot . They can buy half the country without breaking a sweat , you 're small time to them . They could click their fingers and we 'd e ether . Turning very nasty .
LENNY COLE: You speak to me like that again and I 'll cut your fuckin tongue out . I un this town , got that , me ! Anybody who thinks he 's rude enough , let 'em aise a finger , 'cos I 'll take off his whole fuckin arm . Do you understand that Archy ? I said do YOU ?
ARCHY: Yes , I do Len .
MICKEY: How about that then , Johnny Story 's father ? How did that get under the adar ? Why does n't anybody know ?
ROMAN: Would you want anyone to know that he was your Dad ? Would we have taken him on if we had known ?
MICKEY: We 're going to have to give him something , anything , a bed that 's een slept in , a bone for his dog , some token of effort .
ROMAN: We need to see Cookie .
TOM: Who are you ? He looks the boys up and down .
COOKIE: My name is Cookie .
TOM: You must be with Stella ?
COOKIE: No , we 're with the Grand Old Duke of York .
TOM: Well you ca n't come in here , not without shaking my hand .
COOKIE: This is gon na be a scream , Fred get 'em in .
MUMBLES: 'Cos you look like one of them .
COOKIE: And take that chewing gum off you feet before you start dancing . Stella approaches .
STELLA: Good evening gentlemen .
TOM: So ! Who the man ?
ONE TWO: I think that 's your cue Cookie . Cookie takes his cue .
COOKIE: Come on then kids , get in a nice orderly line and we 'll get the party started . The boys all head various ways into the party
ONE TWO: What the fuck are you doing here ?
HANDSOME BOB: Well all the chaps were coming and I did n't have any plans tonight did I ? Thought I might celebrate a little , do you mind ?
ONE TWO: Yes I do fuckin mind . Now listen Bob , what happened last night is ou little secret all right and it was only cos you were supposed to be doing your time , right ? You tell anybody and I swear to God , . I swear to God . Well fuck it Bob , I think you understand .
MUMBLES: And that 's why they call him One Two .
BERTIE: So you 're part of the wild bunch ? Stella says you 're dangerous .
MUMBLES: Does she now ?
BERTIE: So is your friend part of the wild unch ?
MUMBLES: That young man is the greatest gun slinger in town .
BERTIE: Then how come I do n't know him ? I know all about your type .
MUMBLES: How is that then ?
BERTIE: I 'm a criminal lawyer , ..and I know a secret about your part of town .
MUMBLES: What secrets that then ?
BERTIE: You have an informer in your neck of the woods .
MUMBLES: Oh yeah , so what 's his name ?
BERTIE: You have to pay for secrets .
MUMBLES: That 's not nice , but while your at it , what 's the price ?
BERTIE: I want to meet the gun slinger . Mumbles looks over to Handsome .
STELLA: Drink ?
ONE TWO: Large one , Dance ?
STELLA: So , you 're a dancer ?
ONE TWO: Am I a dancer ? Shall we put the ecord straight ?
STELLA: Sure , I like to dance . She stands up and dances just like him .
ONE TWO: Hello , I can sense a little competition . So what you got fo me ?
STELLA: The same job 's back on again .
ONE TWO: Oh yea ? Do n't throw my rhythm .
STELLA: Same time , same place , same money .
ONE TWO: What about security ?
STELLA: Same as before , but they 're not my accountants . A couple of their 's , ..other than that , should be just the same .
MUMBLES: Handsome , I got a job for you . See that man on the couch .
HANDSOME BOB: The one that 's staring at us ? How can I miss him .
MUMBLES: Do me a favor , chat him up .
HANDSOME BOB: Fuck off what do think I am ?
MUMBLES: He 's some big wig lawyer who knows about an informer in our part of town and since you were just looking at a five stretch , I thought you might be interested .
ONE TWO: We got another job on , same as before .
MUMBLES: It 's all go around here is n't it ? Den of iniquity this place is . You know your old lady , well her big time lawyer husband he 's a beard got a crush on the Handsome .
ONE TWO: What are you talking about ?
MUMBLES: Put it this way , I do n't think they married for love .
ONE TWO: I got ta get a breath of fresh air .
HANDSOME BOB: So , I hear you have a secret , but you look like you might have more than one . Why do n't you confess ?
BERTIE: I do n't want to talk about work .
HANDSOME BOB: If you tell me who the informer is , we will talk about whatever you want to , anyway , you do n't have to tell me anything . If he 's an informe you 'll have his depositions and poems .
BERTIE: My , my not just a pretty face . How do you know about those sort of things ?
HANDSOME BOB: Let 's have a drink during the week , and I 'll tell you all about it , all I need is a little bit of paper work .
COOKIE: Oi One Two , I am going to make a killing out of this lot , they 've definitely got more money than brains . I owe you one boyo .
JOHNNY STORY: Pedro ? Come back here . Pete stops in his tracks .
PETE: You never said it was your Dad 's o whatever you wan na call him . You got ta give it back John people are looking for it , bad people . The streets are alive with the sound of pain .
JOHNNY STORY: You may have a point Pete , but I ca n't give it up . You know why ?
PETE: No , why ?
JOHNNY STORY: Meet me in the pub in two minutes .
BARMAN: What do you want ?
JOHNNY STORY: Now , now no need for that tone ba steward . I am merely on mission to acquire a shot of your finest Scotch and a packet of your , Cheapest rolling paper .
BARMAN: Green or red ?
JOHNNY STORY: King size of course - along with a packet of your shiniest coffin nails . The BARMAN reaches for a pack of cigarettes .
BARMAN: Do n't make a scene in here boy . Johnny puts a large note on the bar .
JOHNNY STORY: Put the change in the blind box my good man and remember , He leans into the bar and shuts one eye .
PETE: Yeah .
JOHNNY STORY: All you need to know about life is etained within those four walls .
PETE: Oh you are something special Johnny Story .
MUMBLES: We 'll use rock salt in the shot gun cartridges . Slip 'em into the evolver , if it starts getting large , we 'll bang a couple in to 'em and that 'll slow 'em down . They wo n't know the difference between lead o salt and of course Bob 's driving .
ONE TWO: I do n't want to use Bob .
MUMBLES: What ? He 's our driver , the A-teams not complete without the driver . What 's happened between you and Bob ? There 's a bit of a pause .
ONE TWO: I think there might be something about Bob you do n't know Mumbles .
MUMBLES: What 's that then ? That he 's a poof ?
ONE TWO: What ? Eh ? How did you know ?
MUMBLES: Everybody knows he 's a flamer , you 're the only one who does n't . He loves the boys .
ONE TWO: What are you talking about , I am losing orientation here Mumbles .
MUMBLES: Did he make a pass at you , is this what this is all about ?
ONE TWO: Yes , he fuckin did .
MUMBLES: Ok so what 's the problem ? It was supposed to be his last night so you `` took care '' of him , that 's what friends do for one another , well done , I wo n't tell the chaps .
ONE TWO: Hold on a minute , you wo n't tell the chaps what ?
MUMBLES: What did you do ? Suck his ,
ONE TWO: Stop right fuckin there ! What is going on here ? Does that mean you 've sucked his ,
MUMBLES: Well , you must have touched him .
ONE TWO: Hold on ! I am not fucking gay ! He wanted a dance that 's all !
MUMBLES: Did you give him one ?
ONE TWO: A DANCE , yes , I did .
MUMBLES: Was it a slow dance ? One Two trails off , .
ONE TWO: What has he done to me ? Beat .
MUMBLES: I think there 's something else you should know about our Bob .
ONE TWO: What , there 's more ?
MUMBLES: Who do you think looked after you Mum before she died , whilst you were doing a two stretch ?
ONE TWO: He looked after my Mum , how come he never told me ?
MUMBLES: 'Cos that 's Handsome Bob and he 's class .
BOUNCER: Oi you , what do you think you 're doing ?
JOHNNY STORY: What do you think we 're doing ? We 're trying to get in .
BOUNCER: Go home wasters , costs money to get in here .
JOHNNY STORY: Yes my good man , I am aware of that .
MICKEY: What 's wrong with you ?
ROMAN: Get that Archy on the phone , I think we 've got a problem . WE CUT to the BAND smashing away .
BOUNCER: Run along junkies .
JOHNNY STORY: Oi looky , but no touchy .
PETE: Get off him you slag , he 's class .
ROMAN: Mr. Archy , . I hear you , but you ca n't just shut us down ! I 've got an act on .
PETE: Leave it John , I 'm happy , I 'm all ight down here mate . Let 's call it a night eh ?
JOHNNY STORY: I 'll show em ' fuckin happy .
ROMAN: I understand , we 'll find him , .. But I have to keep the club open ! I have four hundred people in here ! Do n't you dare shut us down !
BOUNCER: Fancy some more talent boy ?
JOHNNY STORY: I am going to report you , what 's your name ?
BOUNCER: Jog on boy , before I grind your bones to make my bread .
JOHNNY STORY: Oh I 'm sorry did that hurt ? Here let me help you up .
MICKEY: They 're trying to shut us down !
JOHNNY STORY: What was that about grinding bones ?
ROMAN: If we want to keep the licence and the lights on , we need to find Johnny Story .
MICKEY: There is a revolution taking place outside .
COOKIE: Joke to be inserted by Cookie . The table laughs , Roman and Mickey approach .
ROMAN: Can we have a word Cookie ?
COOKIE: Well , you should be the first to know this , but is n't he ,
ROMAN: You know and I know nothing kills Johnny . Come on Cookie , you 've helped him fuck up his life for the last five years , now do him a good turn .
COOKIE: Have you ever bought a ticket to the junkies bone yard Roman ? It 's an unpleasant place called `` curl up and die . '' Might sound like a hair salon , but it do n't fuckin look like one I can tell ya . It 's a horrible sight and a terrible sound listening to a man sucking his soul through the hole in `` the pipe '' and even worse when he tries to tear it ack . I 've been there , I 've done that , then I nailed that demon in a smoke proof coffin and I did it all with Johnny . I love that man , he 's what you call class..and if you would use your heads , you would love him too . You know his music sales have gone up a thousand percent in two weeks .
CHECHNYAN 1: Victor is Uri 's right hand man , we served together for four years in Chechnya . We used to have a good time together , he 's a real soldier , strong , hard , we made much trouble . I saved his life and he saved mine many times ,
CHECHNYAN 2: I have one of those ,
CHECHNYAN 1: Six thirty calibe , .
MUMBLES: There 's another case , grab it .
ONE TWO: The bastard 's still kicking . Mace him , mace him !
MUMBLES: Let 's go , we 've got it .
ONE TWO: Give me a hand , you 've blinded me !
MUMBLES: Let 's get going .
ONE TWO: I can hardly see , where are we ?
MUMBLES: Grab my hand , we 're getting out of here .
ONE TWO: Who 's got the cases ?
MUMBLES: I 've got 'em .
ONE TWO: Shoot him Mumbles or we wo n't get out of this !
MUMBLES: I ca n't fuckin shoot him , you do it .
ONE TWO: Stop or I 'll shoot !
MUMBLES: I got the cases , now let go .
ONE TWO: Where 's Bob ?
HANDSOME BOB: Down .
ONE TWO: Run ! Run for your lives .
MUMBLES: Get on !
LENNY COLE: I will have that painting with you in a couple of days Uri . It got locked up with some other goods of mine , I wanted to keep it safe , but Archy lost the key to the lock . Did n't you Arch ? Archy nods like an idiot .
VICTOR: I need to speak to you Uri .
LENNY COLE: Something wrong with these immigrants Arch , I do n't fuckin trust 'em . We 're being set up , do n't know how , ut something 's wrong , I can smell it with my sniffer . I thought he was made of fuckin money , not too happy about flashing it around here though is he ?
VICTOR: He is the only one that knows .
URI: He does n't have the balls or the ains .
VICTOR: He 's a crook , a small time back handing crook . Once could be a coincidence , but twice and the painting - your `` lucky painting '' I think he is trying to make a fool out of you .
STELLA: Oh my God , are you all right ?
ONE TWO: That is a rhetorical question I hope . A glass of water thank you . With a straw . Do n't you want to know what happened ?
STELLA: I know what happened , it 's been all over the news , but I did n't ealize ,
ONE TWO: You did n't say anything about guns , .. machine guns with war criminals stuck to the trigger .
STELLA: I am sorry I did n't know , but should n't you have taken precautions ?
ONE TWO: I 'll leave your bag under the table all right ? But this is n't about the money is it ? I saw you there on that last job . At first I thought it was curiosity , ..
HANDSOME BOB: Is that you Bertie ?
HANDSOME BOB: What 's happening about that pape work ?
ONE TWO: You are scary good at that .
HANDSOME BOB: Do you miss it ?
ONE TWO: Shut up Bob or I 'll slap you . Go and pick up your paper work from your boy friend and drop me off on the way , I am going back to bed .
LENNY COLE: Arch I do n't care if he 's fuckin usy , if we call , he answers , that 's the deal . There he is , .. Councilor , ..Councilor !
COUNCILOR: What are you doing here Lenny ? You ca n't come here .
LENNY COLE: Steady , Councilor steady , I go wherever I fuckin want . This is my town , not yours no matter what you and your pen pushing immigrant boy scouts might think . Now , what 's going on ?
COUNCILOR: Step in here .
LENNY COLE: Do n't give me that shit . I can look out my window and there 's twenty kinds of buildings this city said they 'd never build , how did that happen eh ? Fuckin termites got together and had a house building party did they ? No sunshine , back handers put them up , back handers just like mine .
COUNCILOR: This is n't fuckin Zaire Lenny , I ca n't do it this time .
LENNY COLE: Do n't you swear at me you yellow puddle of immigrants piss or I 'll fuckin drown you in it .
JOHNNY STORY: Moron , what do you think your doing ?
PETE: What John ?
JOHNNY STORY: Letting creatures in my yard without my consent .
PETE: They 're good stuff John , Scotch and Scouse .
MALCOLM: Like the drink and the Beatles . I am Malcolm and this is my friend and colleague Paul , you know like the saint . Paul 's still comatose .
JOHNNY: Out ! ! Good-bye , on your way , bon voyage and fuck off .
MALCOLM: Leave us be Johnny , we 're nice people . Peaceful people . This is a demonstration of peace .
JOHNNY: Where the fuck did you find these two junkies ? Conference , now Pete . Johnny drags Pete in toilet .
JOHNNY STORY: Pedro I swear this is the last time I 'm having you take the piss , next time you 're on your own .
PETE: Sorry , I thought you might like some company .
JOHNNY STORY: I am dead Pete , what does that tell you ? It tells you , that dead people do n't like company ! Now jog 'em on .
PETE: All right , I 'll tell 'em to leave .
JOHNNY STORY: Yes you fucking well will , smelly junkies . Meeting adjourned .
PETE: You 've scared 'em off sing-a-long , ut with a welcome like that it 's not all that shocking .
JOHNNY STORY: Lucky you 're not following them .
MALCOLM: Paul , please exhibit to the audience the fine artifact .
COOKIE: I 'll have it , how much ?
MALCOLM: One moment sir , there 's a pitch that comes with this painting , . Cookie gets up from the table and walks over .
COOKIE: I do n't want the pitch , I said I 'll have it .
MALCOLM: It 's a very rare and expensive painting sir .
COOKIE: Here ya go , have a week in snow . Malcolm takes it .
MALCOLM: Good afternoon gentlemen , it 's been a pleasure . I can hardly wait till the next time .
LENNY COLE: I 'll have that painting in a couple of days Uri , trust me on that . Uri 's not sure about that last statement .
URI: You like it out here Lenny ?
LENNY COLE: Ca n't beat the great outdoors can you Uri ? I ca n't understand it , not a soul out here .
URI: That 's because I have had the course cleared for us Lenny , we are not going to be disturbed .
LENNY COLE: Oh that 's good , I love a clear fai way , that 's a bitta me that Uri . Nothing worse than being jogged on y blind tourists swinging a stick on a Sunday .
URI: What are we going to do Lenny ? Every time I am about to make my payment something dishonest happens . You , would n't know anything about that , would you ?
LENNY COLE: Excuse me ? Are you trying to say something Uri ?
URI: I am not trying Lenny , I am saying something .
LENNY COLE: I think you forget who you are speaking to you insolent bastard . You forget where you are you fuckin immigrant . This is my land , my fuckin show , I run this tow , .
URI: I have to go now Lenny , I am having lunch with the Councilor , you Councilor . This , as you know , is the ninth hole and it is a long crawl ack to your car . You should make it by sunrise , just in time to bring me my `` lucky picture . '' I want it ack do you hear me ? Victor kicks him .
LENNY COLE: Yes , ..yes .
URI: After that , I do n't want to hea from you again , disappear do you understand me Lenny ? Lenny ?
LENNY COLE: Yes , yes , I understand .
URI: Times just change . Good bye Lenny .
ONE TWO: Yeah ?
MUMBLES: We 've found out about that informer . Your lady `` the beard , '' her old man came through .
HANDSOME BOB: It 's here in my hands , THE informer , the one responsible for all the sentences we have been seeing - all of 'em , including me .
MUMBLES: Who 's Sidney Shaw ?
ONE TWO: Sidney Shaw is a pseudonym you idiot , they never use the real name . Get around here and let me have a look .
NURSE: Do n't try and move it 'll be too painful before tonight .
LENNY COLE: Give me the water , Aaaaaahhhhh , ..
NURSE: I told you not to move . Archy walks into the room .
LENNY COLE: Broke my legs in four places Archy , did you hear that ? The bastard 's made me limp for the rest of my days .
ARCHY: What do you want me to do ?
LENNY COLE: I need that picture Archy , I need it ad .
ARCHY: I 'll get it , do n't you worry and I think I can do better than that . This catches his attention .
LENNY COLE: What ?
ARCHY: Someone has been at the Russian 's money , a couple of silly gun slingers , ..he was n't making up stories .
LENNY COLE: What ?
ARCHY: You know 'em and you do n't like 'em either .
LENNY COLE: I ai n't playing fuckin games here Arch look at me , who ?
ARCHY: Mumbles , Bob and One Two .
ONE TWO: Look at you , good as new .
STELLA: I have to go now .
ONE TWO: Fancy sharing some dancing lessons with me later in the week , a bitta the 'ol salsa ?
STELLA: I 'll take you up on that .
ONE TWO: I got something for you . Thought you might like it , seeing as you like paintings and all . There , it 's on floor .
STELLA: You have very good taste , Mr One Two . She picks up the painting and turns smiling .
ROMAN: So why did you call Johnny ?
JOHNNY STORY: Sorry , Johnny 's not home right now , ut the pipe is and the pipe says that Johnny heard you were getting in trouble boys . Roman gives a slight roll of the eyes .
ROMAN: Look , whoever I am talking to please elay the message to Johnny . His Dad , his jack in the box surprise gangster Daddy , paid us a visit . Shut down a few of our venues and he intends to shut down a few more unless Mr Story puts in an appearance .
JOHNNY STORY: Why are you talking to a pipe Roman ? You 're madder than I am .
MICKEY: Come back Johnny , come back home .
JOHNNY STORY: But home is where your head is and I do n't feel at home in my head . Come back Johnny !
VICTOR: Uri is a man born with nothing , carved his way up the hard way , he 's smart , young and only one thing will stop him from reaching his goals , women . And this woman has become a problem . My job is to protect Uri and in this department he needs protecting , I do n't like her or trust her and I want you to follow that snake .
CHECHNYAN 1: Leave it with me Victor .
ARCHY: Is this a bad time One Two ?
ONE TWO: Emmm , emmmmmmmmmmmm .
ARCHY: Shall we come back later ?
ONE TWO: Emmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm .
ARCHY: All right Lenny , I got a call waiting here , I 'll see ya at the show .
ROMAN: Archy ?
JOHNNY STORY: Hello Archy .
ARCHY: Johnny , you do look the part .
JOHNNY STORY: Show us your guns Uncle Arch , I told the boys all about it .
ARCHY: Shut up and get in the car .
JOHNNY STORY: Give us your money boys .
ARCHY: You little swine , now get in the car .
BANDY: You wan na take the stairs or the elevator Mr Cole ? Lenny 's in a wheelchair , he looks at Bandy .
LENNY COLE: Come here Bandy . Bandy comes near , Lenny takes a sniff .
BANDY: No , .Mr Cole . Lenny slaps him .
LENNY COLE: Think before you drink and before you drive me mad Bandy .
JOHNNY STORY: Do n't worry boys , nothing to be nervous about , some of my Dad 's best friends ended up here .
ARCHY: Still full of hot air Johnny .
JOHNNY STORY: You 're looking a bit down , has that old clown been working you long hours ? You always were loyal - no dog like a loyal dog .
ARCHY: Watch your mouth John .
JOHNNY STORY: Do n't hit me Archy , I 'm a singer not a fighter . I 've just the remedy for you , a story , a Johnny Story and it 's all about you .
ARCHY: I do n't want to hear it .
JOHNNY STORY: Sorry , that 's right get into character . Look at him boys , scary ai n't he ? Roman and Mickey do n't like any of this .
ARCHY: Shut it , otherwise you will get hurt .
JOHNNY STORY: That , Roman and Mickey , is the famous Archy slap . I have been magically transported straight back to my childhood .
ARCHY: Shut it , you hear me or I 'll do ya myself , you poisonous little fucker !
JOHNNY STORY: Do n't hurt me Arch , I 'm only little .
DANNY: Put him down Arch , he 's only little .
ARCHY: Fine , roll out the carpets .
JOHNNY STORY: Sidney ! Nice wheels .
LENNY COLE: Tell me , what are you boy if you are not poison ? Look what you 've left ehind you . Your Dad could n't even ear the sight ya , no wonder he fucked off and left me to pick up the pieces , ut that was n't enough for you was it ? No , had to drive your mum into a bottle of pills and house full of nutters . All she got then was a hot ath a ice cold razor , why ? Cos your poison Johnny , that 's why .
JOHNNY STORY: What can I say , I 'm a junkie , crack head , no gooder , should never have wasted your money on that school .
LENNY COLE: Archy get him out of here .
ARCHY: I 've had enough of him , I do n't trust myself . Use someone else .
JOHNNY STORY: It 's a gathering , I love a gathering look , Mumbles , One Two , Handsome Bo all the old faces today . It 's all going so well apart from Archy who 's ruining the day . I tried to cheer him up with that story about how you grassed him u ,
ROMAN: Whooooa ,
ARCHY: All right calm down , give me that , I 'll take care of him .
JOHNNY STORY: That was n't one of your better shots was it now Daddy . If you want to shut me up it should have been a bit higher . Lenny looks up to Danny .
LENNY COLE: Danny come here , I want him taken care of , you hear ? Now get him out .
HANDSOME BOB: The address is in my top pocket . Here , Archy , you know I would n't mess you around .
LENNY COLE: Let me have a look first .
ARCHY: Here you ca n't read it without you glasses , let me have a look .
LENNY COLE: What does it say ? Hurry ,
JOHNNY STORY: Do n't worry just yet fellas , nothing 's going to happen while we 're standing in the elevator because they do n't
ARCHY: You wan na know what this says Len ? Funny thing with the law , it can be quite flexible . Every time an informer finds himself in front of a judge ,
JUDGE: A secret letter stands witness as to the cooperation and efficiency of that informer .
LAWYER: An accurate record of his treachery will be brought in to protect the informer ,
ARCHY: If the informer has provided adequate information , that dog of dogs will e magically released ,
JUDGE: A sort of , `` get out of jail free '' card , but this comes along with the trail of a good alibi .
LAWYER: The only evidence that will eve emain of this deal is that form of a very exclusive and hard to come by legal document called a `` secret debt ''
ARCHY: As in deputation , The likes of which I hold for the very first time in my hand . Of course they use a false name and I have seen that name many times in the last twenty years , always did wonder who Sidney Shaw was ,
LENNY COLE: Give us that here .
LENNY COLE: No , I am being set up .
ARCHY: You 're a dirty bastard Sidney , a very dirty bastard .
ONE TWO: See ya Arch , .
JOHNNY: Should n't have brought me here fellas , you 're just going to end up as witnesses .
JOHNNY: After they have `` dealt '' with us , they 're gon na put all three of us in the trunk of a stolen car ,
JOHNNY STORY: Mickey , pass me the gun .
BANDY: Get fucking down !
ONE TWO: I think we should get out of here now , do n't you John ?
VICTOR: I do n't like it Uri , I do n't trust her . I put two of my people on he and they have n't come back . Very insulted .
URI: You what ? I did not tell you to do this . If I had wanted her spied on I would have asked for it , would n't
VICTOR: Yes Uri , you would have , but I still do n't like it .
URI: I do n't care what you like Victor , I am in charge , now wait here . He gets out and walks to the door .
URI: Sorry to surprise you , but I have something for you , a token of my appreciation . He hands her a check .
STELLA: What is this for ?
URI: Please do not be insulted , you have come to mean a lot to me and I value you much more than just your services . This is simply a reflection of my appreciation . I would like to ask you something personal .
STELLA: Years , it 's my lucky painting , it 's very special is n't it ?
URI: Beauty is a cruel mistress , is it not ?
BLACK FIGHTER: I 'm gon na bust his head wide open !
CORNERMAN: Ya waltzin ' Give the suckers some action .
ROCKY: Hey
CORNERMAN: Ya movin ' like a bum Want some advice
ROCKY: Just gim me the water .
FAN: Should I bet the fight do n't go the distance Ya feel strong ?
ROCKY: Absolutely .
CORNERMAN: Ya want some good advice ?
ROCKY: I just want the mouthpiece .
ANNOUNCER: Winner , Rocky Balboa Next a six rounder between local lightweights .
FIGHTER #1: Tomorrow me an ' my woman are gon na tip on down to Atlantic City , man .
FIGHTER #2: It 's cold , Bro ' .
FIGHTER #1: That 's right , I got the city to myself
PROMOTER: Balboa ! ?
ROCKY: I 'm a fighter .
WOMAN: Yo ' iz an accident .
ROCKY: Look who 's home .
MAFIA #1: Yo , Rock How 's your Boss ?
ROCKY: Real good .
MAFIA #2: Fightin ' again ?
ROCKY: Yeah , here an ' there .
MAFIA #1: Mebbe we make sum money togather soon Give ya boss my best .
FATS: Do n't hit the face ! Not the face ! !
ROCKY: Mr. Gazzo wants the two hundred now !
FATS: Honest to God I 'm broke Gim me a break .
ROCKY: Mr. Gazzo says I should get two hundred or break the thumb .
FATS: Please , I need my hands to work Christ , do n't bust my thumbs .
ROCKY: Goin ' fishin ' ? The man drops the hook .
FATS: Bob .
ROCKY: Look , Bob , if ya wan na dance , ya got ta pay the band If ya orrow , ya got ta pay the man Me , I ai n't emotionally involved .
FATS: That 's it , I 'm broke .
ROCKY: That 's it ? Completely ?
FATS: That 's it .
ROCKY: What about for food an ' stuff ?
FATS: You have my food in ya hand .
ROCKY: The juice is climbin ' every week .
FATS: I know the juice is climbin ' I been workin ' six months just to pay the damn interest .
ROCKY: Ya still light seventy .
FATS: Waits ! Be smart . Ya do n't have to break nothin ' Here , take my coat , it 's worth fifty-sixty dollars . It 's yours .
ROCKY: That 's what coulda happened .
ADRIAN: Could you take the puppy out
CUSTOMER: It can breathe .
ADRIAN: Please -
CUSTOMER: Please , nothin ' - I paid fo this dog and can do whatever I want with it - I can throw it through the window if I want - Now give me my two dollars ack before I do throw it through the window .
ROCKY: How 's the turtle food this week ?
ADRIAN: Fine .
ROCKY: Me , I 'm kinda aggravated .
ADRIAN: I 'm sorry .
ROCKY: Ai n't your fault - Here 's the problem .
ADRIAN: I do n't know .
ROCKY: Shell-shocked ! Both the Owner and Adrian smile .
OWNER: Startin ' with the bad jokes early today , huh .
ROCKY: Inventin ' jokes ai n't easy .
OWNER: Ai n't had time to check 'em .
ROCKY: Yo , Butkus Dead . Play dead . The dog plays dead .
OWNER: Bullmastiff .
ROCKY: The owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago .
OWNER: We 're not responsible fo animals left over thirty days - We board it ai n't a animal shelter , Y'know . Adrian , I want you to clean all those cat cages downstairs , they 're a mess .
ROCKY: He only had a hundred an ' thirty . I think he 's good for the rest next week , Mr. Gazzo .
GAZZO: Sure , Rocky , Bob 's good fo it Gazzo hands Rocky a twenty .
ROCKY: Fine .
BODYGUARD: Did ya get the license number ?
ROCKY: Of wa ?
BODYGUARD: Of the truck that run ove your face .
GAZZO: Yo Rock . Did I give you a jo this mornin ? How come ya did n't break this guy 's thum like I asked ya ? When ya do n't do what ya are told , it makes me look bad , kid .
ROCKY: I figure if I break the thum this guy gets thrown outta his job and ca n't pay nothin no more .
GAZZO: It do n't matter . It 's my eputation . These guys think they can get off light . It 's ad for my reputation It 's ad for business . See ya killer . Gazzo gets into his car .
BODYGUARD: A meatbag . They pull away .
RUDY: See the fight last night ?
FIGHTER #1: Hey , hear ya knocked Spide Rice out in the sixth ?
ROCKY: The third Shoulda seen it .
FIGHTER #2: Hey , Rock , touch my hand .
ROCKY: How come ?
FIGHTER #2: C'mon , it 's important . Rocky touches the Fighter 's bare hand .
ROCKY: These ai n't my clothes .
MIKE: It ai n't your locker no more .
ROCKY: Whatta ya talkin ' about it ai n't my locker no more ?
MIKE: Listen , I 'm with you But ya got ta talk to Mickey I put ya stuff in the bag over there .
FIGHTER: Hey , Peanut , gim me some soap , Man .
MIKE: Hey , Nobody Yeah , you , Nobody You do n't call me Peanut .
FIGHTER: Peanut , gim me some soap .
ROCKY: You were ready to bite that guy 's face .
MIKE: Yeah See the fight last night ? Apollo Creed beat that English guy bad .
ROCKY: Creed 's great .
MICKEY: I do n't care what nobody says , this bum Creed woulda neve made it in the Thirties
ROCKY: Hey , how ya feelin ' , Mickey ?
MICKEY: What ?
ROCKY: I said , how ya feelin ' ?
MICKEY: Do you see me talkin ' ? Huh ?
ROCKY: Yeah .
MICKEY: Then stand there an ' wait till I 'm done Creed 's good , yeah , he 's real fine but I got ta boy , y'know Big Dipper , who 's got the stuff it takes to be a champ He 's mean , quick , an ' big What more d'ya need ? Okay , go to work Hey Yeah Whatta ya want ?
ROCKY: I was talkin ' with ya man , Mike . Hey , how come I been put outta my locker ?
MICKEY: Dipper needed it .
ROCKY: Tomato ?
MICKEY: Facts is facts . I run a usiness here I 'm cleanin ' house
ROCKY: What ?
MICKEY: How old ?
ROCKY: Come July , twenty-five .
MICKEY: More like thirty .
ROCKY: Twenty-five , thirty What 's the difference ? It took me two months to learn the combination of that locker .
MICKEY: The legs must be goin ' .
ROCKY: Yeah , they 're goin ' , that 's nature That was my locke for six years .
MICKEY: Did ya fight last night ?
ROCKY: Yeah
MICKEY: Did ya win ?
ROCKY: Yeah , Kayo .
MICKEY: Who 'd ya fight ?
ROCKY: Spider Rice .
MICKEY: Rice is a bum .
ROCKY: You think everybody I fight is a bum .
MICKEY: Ai n't they ?
ROCKY: Listen , I 'm gon na take a steam Did good last night Shoulda seen it .
MICKEY: Hey , ever think about retirin ' ?
ROCKY: No .
MICKEY: Think about it .
ROCKY: Yeah , sure . Shrugging , Rocky moves away .
MICKEY: Known him since he was fifteen A waste of life .
DIPPER: I dig yo ' locker , Man .
TRAINER: Time , Dipper .
ROCKY: Wow cold ! Good night to catch pneumonia .
ADRIAN: Goodnight , Rocky .
ROCKY: Catch pneumonia out there Seen Paulie ? Andy casually nods towards the men 's room .
PAULIE: Yo , Rocky Look at this mirror . I 'd like to kill the friggin ' moron who broke this mirror .
ROCKY: Yo , Paulie .
PAULIE: What ?
ROCKY: Your sister 's givin ' me the shoulder .
PAULIE: Forget her . You could do etter than my sister .
ROCKY: Every mornin ' , every night I pass by I smile .
PAULIE: Looks , huh ?
ROCKY: Yeah , like I was a plate of leftovers Somethin ' wrong with my face Whatta I need , a Caddy to connect with ya sister ?
PAULIE: My sister 's a friggin ' loser .
ROCKY: Hey
PAULIE: Sometimes she gets me so crazy , I 'd like to split he head with a razor .
ROCKY: Do n't get mental , man .
PAULIE: Ya caught me in a bad mood .
ROCKY: Ya always in a bad mood
PAULIE: Adrian ai n't sharp .
ROCKY: I 'm thirty myself .
PAULIE: An ' you 're dyin ' alone , too .
ROCKY: I do n't see no crowd around you , neither .
PAULIE: I wan na kill the friggin ' moron who broke the mirror .
ROCKY: Let 's get outta this stink .
PAULIE: The girl 's dryin ' up ! She 's got ta live a little before he ody dries up ! ! You 're a pal , Rock How 'bout yo ' talk to her ? Y'know , it 's Thanksgivin ' tomorrow .
ROCKY: Sure .
PAULIE: Tomorrow you come for some ird , right ?
ROCKY: Absolutely
ANDY: That was alotta crap to go through for a dinner invite .
COMMENTATOR: How was the flight , Champ ?
APOLLO: Very high an ' very fast .
COMMENTATOR: Apollo , how would you rate this last British challenger , Henry Wilcoxson ?
APOLLO: He was big , an ' very nasty so I destroyed him in a hurry Now I 'm gettin ' ready for Mac Lee Green next month .
COMMENTATOR: You 're referring to the much publicized bicentennial fight ?
APOLLO: That 's right It 's gon na be the greatest sportin ' event in this country 's history A gala occurrence !
COMMENTATOR: Still to be held in Philadelphia ?
APOLLO: The Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship of the World is gon na be held in the only place it can be held Philadelphia ! the nation 's cradle January First the first major event of our two hundredth year .
COMMENTATOR: Where 're you off to now ? Apollo draws his wife close .
APOLLO: Me an ' my wife are goin ' home 'cause we miss our children an ' ca n't go no more time without seein ' them .
COMMENTATOR: Any quick advice for young oxing hopefuls ?
APOLLO: Stay in school an ' use your brains , dig Be a lawyer , be a doctor , carry a leather briefcase an ' forget about sports ! ! Sports can only make ya grunt an ' smell Be a thinker not a stinker ! !
COMMENTATOR: Jerry Simpson at Kennedy Airport with the Champion , Apollo Creed .
ANDY: Nobody cares what 's happenin ' in the world of sports nomore Downhill . Baseball , downhill Basketball , downhill . Football 's goin ' , too . Bank on it . Baseball use to be America 's best sport Sure Nuttin ' like squattin ' through a great double header , but now aseball 's all business .
ROCKY: Clown .
ANDY: Yeah .
ROCKY: He took his best shot an ' ecame champ What shot did you ever take ?
ANDY: Yo , Rock , you ai n't happy with yourself ? Fine . But me , I got ta business here I do n't need to take no shot .
CHIPPED TOOTH: Yo , Rocks , buy us sum wine , man .
ROCKY: No wine Bad for ya ' ain .
CHIPPED TOOTH: C'mon , man , it 's cold , man .
ROCKY: No wine .
CHIPPED TOOTH: Yo , Rock , gim me a dollar .
ROCKY: Why ?
CHIPPED TOOTH: 'Cause we dig ya , man Gim me a dollar .
ROCKY: No dollar .
CHIPPED TOOTH: Hey , give Rocky a dime .
ROCKY: That 's an old one .
CHIPPED TOOTH: Buy us some Thunderbird , man .
ROCKY: Is that Marie ? Marie , ya other know you 're hangin ' out so late ?
MARIE: Screw you .
ROCKY: What 'd you say ?
MARIE: Screw you , yoyo .
ROCKY: Did these guys teach you to talk dirty ? Huh ?
MARIE: Hey
ROCKY: What ?
MARIE: Stuff it , man !
ROCKY: Do n't you never say that You guys talk like that in front of a little girl You guys are scum .
CHIPPED TOOTH: This is our place , dig ! The gang reluctantly backs up a step .
ROCKY: Do n't ya never come round this girl Go home .
CHIPPED TOOTH: We 'll kill you , man We got ta gun .
ROCKY: Pull heat on me ? I 'll dent ya face ! Rocky leads the girl away .
MARIE: I like 'em . If you do n't you can f
ROCKY: Hey ! When I was your age , there was only one girl who talked like that in the whole neighborhood .
MARIE: Yeah .
ROCKY: Make your teeth yella
MARIE: I like yella teeth .
ROCKY: Makes your breath like garbage .
MARIE: Maybe I like garbage .
ROCKY: Nobody likes garbage Anyway , this girl with the dirty mouth was n't bad lookin ' , ut the guys would n't take he out for any serious datin ' .
MARIE: Why ?
ROCKY: 'Cause that 's the way guys are They laugh when ya talk dirty . They think ya cute fo a while , but then ya getta eputation an ' watch out .
MARIE: C'mon , Rocky . I 'm twelve .
ROCKY: That does n't matter You do n't really have to be a whore , just act like one an ' that 's it .
MARIE: What ?
ROCKY: Yo , a bad reputation Twenty years from now people will say 'D'you remember Marie ? ' 'No , who was she ? ' 'She was that little whore who hung out at the Atomic Hoagie Shop . ' 'Oh , now I remember ! ' See , they do n't remember you , they emember the rep .
MARIE: I wo n't .
ROCKY: What was I gon na say ?
MARIE: Ya hope I do n't keep acting like a whore or I 'll turn into one , right ?
ROCKY: Ya , somethin ' like that .
MARIE: Goodnight , Rocky .
ROCKY: 'Night , Marie . She takes a few more steps and pauses again .
MARIE: Fuck you , Creepo ! ! !
ROCKY: Yeah , who 're you to give advice , Creepo .
LAWYER: Are the doctor 's reports confirmed ?
JERGENS: Definitely It says here , Mac Lee Green has suffered a seriously cracked third metacarpal in his left hand .
APOLLO: Damn .
JERGENS: I suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting Green .
TRAINER: It ai n't just Green , what about the time Apollo 's invested
JERGENS: I believe we can find a solution .
APOLLO: Solution , nothin ' What about the Bicentennial fight .
LAWYER: Jergens , do n't play games with my client ! Apollo has already done nearly a million dollars worth of publicity
TRAINER: Ten million 's worth !
LAWYER: And has made contractual obligations with over twenty different organizations He does n't want to be embarrassed .
APOLLO: You best find me anothe anked contender an ' I mean in a flash , man !
JERGENS: I contacted Ernie Roman 's manager , he 's fighting in France the same week .
APOLLO: Then gim me Buddy Shaw He 's anked fifth .
JERGENS: Shaw 's fighting in South America Why not postpone the bout until July Fourth ?
LAWYER: Hell with Fourth of July , man ! Ten thousand things 'll be goin ' down on the Fourth of July ! Apollo wants to be first !
JERGENS: That may not be possible , Jimmy .
TRAINER: This man here is the Star , dig Do n't cause him to eathe heavy Now what 'bout that sucker , Billy Dukes ?
JERGENS: Went to California and gained fifty pounds and I called every worthwhile contender , ut they say five weeks is n't enough time to get in shape .
APOLLO: Shape , nothin ' They 're afraid . They know everybody in the world 's gon na see this fight an ' none of them got ta prayer of beating me so they 're makin ' excuses so they do n't have to be the chump that 's gon na be whipped in front of the whole civilized world ! !
JERGENS: Apollo , I 'm sure there 's a way to salvage this .
TRAINER: Nobody wants to be dissected on the country 's birthday .
JERGENS: All I can counter with is that I 'm a goddamn good promoter I 've promoted in every country in the world and I 've tried to the best of my abilities . Perhaps you 're right , and no one wants to be beat on the country 's birthday I do n't know what else to say
APOLLO: I do Maybe what this fight needs is something new a novelty .
TRAINER: You 's the novelty , Champ !
APOLLO: Give my main man a raise ! ! Everyone laughs .
JERGENS: It 's very American .
APOLLO: No , man , it 's very smart .
ROCKY: Next Wednesday I grab a grand from Snyder . An ' Thursday two yards from Cappoli , okay ?
GAZZO: No , two yards from Snyder , an ' a grand from Cappoli .
ROCKY: Ya sure ?
GAZZO: Hey , screw ya brain on right . Now , who 's this girl you 're going out with tonight ?
ROCKY: How 'd you know ?
GAZZO: You think I do n't hear things ?
ROCKY: Paulie 's sister .
BODYGUARD: Hear she 's retarded .
ROCKY: She ai n't retarded , she 's shy .
BODYGUARD: Take 'er to the zoo Retards like the zoo .
ROCKY: Does that bum have to say that ?
GAZZO: Buddy 's in a bad mood prostate problems .
ROCKY: He 's always in a bad mood . Count ya blessin 's . Ya a healthy person ya legs work ya hands work
BODYGUARD: I do n't like ya face .
ROCKY: Do n't like yours neither .
BODYGUARD: Kiss my ass .
ROCKY: Move your shoulders down .
GAZZO: Buddy 's got a thing against ya , Rock . Some people just hate for no reason , y'know .
ROCKY: Yeah .
GAZZO: Here 's fifty bucks You an ' the girl have a nice time .
ROCKY: Thanks , Mr. Gazzo .
APOLLO: How 'bout this Billy Snow ?
JERGENS: Fouls .
APOLLO: How 'bout this Big Chuck Smith ?
TRAINER: Too old , dull fighter . Bobby Judge is a good boy .
APOLLO: I do n't feel heat from the name .
JERGENS: Joe Zack is a good prospect Exciting boy .
APOLLO: Still do n't feel no heat .
JERGENS: Exactly what are you looking for , Apollo ?
APOLLO: This man . Everybody leans forward .
JERGENS: Rocky Balboa His record 's poor
APOLLO: Do n't matter That name . 'The Italian Stallion , ' it 's ight on . Who discovered America ? An Italian , right ? So , man , what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors
TRAINER: He wo n't last one round .
APOLLO: Listen , I gon na carry this boy three rounds , then drop 'im like a bad habit .
TRAINER: I do n't like you messin ' with southpaws They do everything wrong .
APOLLO: Southpaw , nuthin ' I 'll drop 'im in three 'Apollo Creed meets the Italian Stallion . ' Shhiii Sounds like a damn monster movie ! ! Everyone laughs .
ROCKY: I usta be deadly at half-ball .
PAULIE: I hate the friggin ' game I 'd like to talk some business .
ROCKY: What kinda business ?
PAULIE: Look at my hands See how the joints are swollen .
ROCKY: Maybe ya should see a doctor .
PAULIE: I do n't need a doctor , I need a different job .
ROCKY: Maybe another job is the best thing .
PAULIE: Do me a favor Talk to Gazzo . Tell him I 'm a friend an ' would do a good job Tell him I ai n't bothered by nothin ' an ' would be a great collector Bustin ' bones do n't bother me Tell him I 'm a good worker .
ROCKY: Gazzo 's got ta come to you .
PAULIE: I 'm askin ' ya to go to him As a favor .
ROCKY: Gazzo 's got ta come to you Hey , Paulie , it 's a bad job Do what you do now .
PAULIE: You know her ?
ROCKY: Ya sister knows I 'm comin ' ?
PAULIE: Yeah , sure She 's very excited .
ADRIAN: Paulie , you 're late . She looks at Rocky again .
PAULIE: Did you call the hospital ? If I 'm ten minutes late , she calls the hospital .
ADRIAN: Paulie , why did n't you tell me you were bringing him home ? ! Look at me , I 'm not eady for this .
PAULIE: Like it would make a difference if you were , right ? This guy 's a friend and now he 's takin ' ya out .
ADRIAN: No I ca n't !
PAULIE: Ya , ya goin ' outta the bedroom an ' I do n't wan na know from nothin ' .
ADRIAN: Paulie , please
PAULIE: Hey , I want ya out instamaticly . I 'm sicka lookin ' at ya hangin ' around like a friggin ' spider Go out Live ! Do , enjoy life .
ADRIAN: Like you ?
PAULIE: Do n't get wise with me . I want ya to stop bein ' a loser .
ADRIAN: I ca n't go out .
PAULIE: Why ?
ADRIAN: Paulie , it 's Thanksgiving . I 've got ta turkey in the oven .
PAULIE: ! ! Ya want the bird , go out in the alley an ' eat the bird I want ya outta the house Enjoy ya friggin ' life Ya hungry , Rock ?
ROCKY: Maybe ya better forget it .
PAULIE: Forget nothin ' Here , talk to my sister , tell ' e somethin ' nice .
ROCKY: Yo , Adrian , it 's me , Rocky Ah , ah Ah , it 's kinda hard for me to think of somethin ' to say , y'know 'Cause I never talked to a door before , I mean whatta ya say to a door . Rocky turns away and begins to walk off .
PAULIE: Try again , c'mon , try again .
ROCKY: Ah , Adrian , I know ya ai n't too happy at this moment , but would ya do me a favor I ai n't got nobody to spend Thanksgivin ' with How 'bout you an ' me goin ' out Get somethin ' to eat , maybe laugh a little , who knows Would ya like , I dunno , go out together ?
PAULIE: Ice skate .
ROCKY: I did n't want no turkey anyway .
ADRIAN: It 's Thanksgiving .
ROCKY: To you , to me it 's Thursday .
ADRIAN: I think it 's closed .
ROCKY: I think mebbe we 're early o somethin '
CLEANER: Hey , whatta ya doin ' here we 're closed Yo , we 're closed !
ROCKY: Are ya closed to the General Public or to just everybody .
CLEANER: Hey , the rink is empty 'cause we 're closed ya ai n't allowed in here so do me a favor an ' not stay here .
ROCKY: Wait here , got ta smooth this guy out .
ADRIAN: We could go somewhere else an ' Rocky approaches the Cleaner .
CLEANER: Yo , pal , what 's with you The place ai n't operatin ' .
ROCKY: Listen , I got ta problem . This girl ai n't feelin ' well , y'know The doctor says she should exercise , y'know once in awhile an ' ice skatin ' is the best thing
CLEANER: This a con ?
ROCKY: Look at her , ya can see she ai n't feelin ' good needs a few minutes exercise
CLEANER: Few minutes ?
ROCKY: Ten minutes .
CLEANER: Ten minutes for ten dollars .
ROCKY: Yeah , give 'er the Blades .
ADRIAN: Are n't you skating ?
ROCKY: Ai n't skated since I was fifteen That 's when I started fightin ' got ta watch the ankles . Yeah , fightin ' use to be tops with me , but no more . All I wanted to prove was I were n't no um That I had the stuff to make a good pro .
ADRIAN: And you never got the chance ? The Cleaner yells from the sideline .
CLEANER: Nine minutes !
ROCKY: Hey , I ai n't cryin ' I still fight . Kinda do it like a hobby . See I 'm a natural southpaw an ' most pugs wo n't fight a southpaw 'cause we mess up their timin ' an ' look awkward Southpaw means lefthanded But I guess in the long run things probably worked out for the best , right ?
ADRIAN: But you never had a chance to prove yourself .
ROCKY: Absolutely .
CLEANER: Eight minutes ! Adrian slips and Rocky breaks her fall .
ROCKY: I just dislocated my finger .
ADRIAN: Ohh !
CLEANER: Seven minutes !
ROCKY: It ai n't your fault I originally done it in the Baby Crenshaw fight . That 's me fightin ' Big Baby Crenshaw Big Baby was the size of an airplane an ' I oke my hands on his head I lost , but it 's a nice picture , do n't ya think ?
CLEANER: Six !
ROCKY: How 'bout some Cokes ?
CLEANER: Cost ya a buck .
ROCKY: This guy is beautiful get the Cokes .
ADRIAN: By accident ?
CLEANER: Here Three minutes .
ROCKY: Yeah My ol ' man who was never the sharpest told me I were n't born with much brain so I better use my body . For the first time , Adrian laughs .
ADRIAN: My mother told me just the opposite . She said , 'You were n't born with much of a ody so you 'd better develop your brain . '
CLEANER: Time !
ROCKY: I must be goin ' deaf 'cause I thought ya said , 'ten cents . ' Rocky hands him a dime .
CLEANER: How 'bout for the Cokes ?
ROCKY: Charge it .
ADRIAN: I suppose .
ROCKY: I would say you 're very shy bu nature .
ADRIAN: I suppose .
ROCKY: Some people think bein ' shy is a disease , but it do n't bothe me .
ADRIAN: It does n't bother me either .
ROCKY: Then why did I bother bringin ' it up ? 'Cause I 'm dumb , that 's why Y'know , I think we make a real sharp coupla coconuts I 'm dumb an ' you 're shy .
ADRIAN: It is just hard for me to understand why anybody wants to be a fighter .
ROCKY: Ya got ta be a little soft to wan na be a pug It 's a acket where ya ' almost guaranteed to end up a bum .
ADRIAN: I do n't think you 're a bum .
ROCKY: I 'm at least half a bum . Yeah , fightin ' is a crazy acket . The roughest part is the mornin ' after .
ADRIAN: Morning after ?
ROCKY: After a rough fight , ya ' nothin ' but a large wound . Sometimes I feel like callin ' a taxi to drive me from my bed to the bathroom Ya ' eyes hurt , ya ' ears hurt , ya ' hai even hurts But the thing I 'm proud of is I been in ove sixty fights an ' never had a usted nose Bent an ' twisted an ' bitten but neve oke That 's rare .
ADRIAN: Why do you do it if it hurts so bad ?
ROCKY: Guess .
ADRIAN: 'Cause you ca n't sing or dance ? Rocky smiles .
ROCKY: Would ya like a glass of water ?
ADRIAN: No thanks .
ROCKY: Here 's the guys I was tellin ' ya about This is Cuff an ' Link .
ADRIAN: I sold them to you .
ROCKY: Oh , yeah , I bought the whole kit Yeah , ya sold me the turtles , the bowl , an ' the mountain I had to get rid of the mountain 'cause they kept fallin ' off .
ADRIAN: Do you have a phone ?
ROCKY: I had it pulled . People callin ' all the time . Who needs it Who 'd you wan na call ?
ADRIAN: I wan na let my brother know where I am .
ROCKY: D'you really wan na call ?
ADRIAN: Yes , I do .
ROCKY: You sure ?
ADRIAN: Yes .
ROCKY: Why ?
ADRIAN: I think he might be worried .
ROCKY: I 'll call your brother .
ADRIAN: It 's fine .
ROCKY: It 's only temporary .
ADRIAN: It 's not that
ROCKY: What 's the problem ? You do n't like me Do n't like the turtles What is it ?
ADRIAN: I do n't think I belong here .
ROCKY: It 's okay .
ADRIAN: No , I do n't belong here .
ROCKY: It 's all right You 're my guest .
ADRIAN: I 've never been in a man 's apartment before .
ROCKY: They 're all the same .
ADRIAN: I 'm not sure I know you well enough I do n't think I 'm comfortable .
ROCKY: Yo , I 'm not comfortable either .
ADRIAN: I should leave .
ROCKY: But I 'm willin ' to make the est of this uncomfortable situation .
ADRIAN: What ?
ROCKY: The glasses Please .
ADRIAN: T-thank you .
ROCKY: Do me another favor ?
ADRIAN: What ?
ROCKY: Could ya take off that hat .
ADRIAN: Do n't tease me .
ROCKY: I wan na kiss ya Ya do n't have to kiss me back if ya do n't feel like it .
MIKE: Hey , Rock What happened ?
ROCKY: 'Bout what ? Mickey Goldmill steps out of his office
MICKEY: Did ya get the message , kid ?
ROCKY: Message What message ?
MICKEY: A Rep from Miles Jergens ' Promotions was lookin ' fo ya They need sparrin ' partners for Creed .
ROCKY: Ya puttin ' me on ?
MICKEY: Here 's the card ?
ROCKY: When was they here ?
MICKEY: 'Bout an hour ago .
ROCKY: Probably lookin ' for sparrin ' partners .
MICKEY: I said that before .
SECRETARY: May I help you ? Rocky hands her the business card .
ROCKY: Balboa , Rocky Balboa .
SECRETARY: You may go in . Rocky collects himself and enters
JERGENS: Hello , Mr. Balboa I 'm Miles Jergens Please , have a seat .
ROCKY: Thanks .
JERGENS: Mr. Balboa
ROCKY: Rocky .
JERGENS: Rocky , do you have any epresentation ? A manager ?
ROCKY: No Just me .
JERGENS: Rocky , would you be interested in
ROCKY: Sparrin ' ?
JERGENS: Excuse me .
ROCKY: I know ya need sparrin ' partners I 'm very available .
JERGENS: I 'm sure you are .
ROCKY: Absolutely Sparrin ' with the Champ would be an honor y'know what ?
JERGENS: What ?
ROCKY: I would n't take no cheap shots . I 'd be a good sparrin ' partner .
JERGENS: Rocky , would you be interested in fighting Apollo Creed fo the Championship ?
ROCKY: Like I said , I 'd make a oss sparrin ' mate .
JERGENS: Did you hear what I said ?
ROCKY: Sure , an ' I 'm smart enough to know that no sparrin ' partne should take cheap shots at the Champ . He 's just there to help condition the man .
JERGENS: Not spar , I 'm asking whethe you would be interested in fighting Creed for the championship .
ROCKY: Ah Absolutely .
REPORTER #1: How 'd you like the 'City of Brotherly Love ? '
APOLLO: I like my Philadelphia Brothers . An ' I 'm patriotic !
REPORTER #2: Why did you agree to fight a man who has virtually no chance of winning ?
APOLLO: If history proves one thing , everybody got ta chance Did n't yo ' all ever hear of David an ' Goliath ? 'Course I woulda knocked out Goliath .
REPORTER #3: It is a coincidence that you 're fighting a white man on the most celebrated day in the country 's history ?
APOLLO: The same coincidence that he 's fightin ' a black man .
REPORTER #1: What 're your feelings about the challenger ?
APOLLO: He 's Italian .
REPORTER #1: What does that mean ?
APOLLO: It means if he ca n't fight , I et he can cook !
PAULIE: Do me a favor His lungs , punch 'em out .
ADRIAN: Paul .
REPORTER #2: This is your largest payday ever How do you feel about it ?
ROCKY: Feel ? I dunno Happy .
REPORTER #2: How will you fight Apollo Creed ?
ROCKY: Creed 's great , ai n't he I 'll do what I can .
REPORTER #1: Where did you get the name , 'Italian Stallion ? '
ROCKY: I thought of it 'bout eight years ago , when I was eatin ' dinner .
REPORTER #2: Is it true the most you 've ever made in a prizefight is five hundred dollars ?
ROCKY: Four hundred But that was a long time ago .
REPORTER #2: And now your payday will be one hundred and fifty thousand dollars . Any comment ?
ROCKY: Listen , I wan na say hi to my girlfriend Yo , Adrian ! Adrian blushes and laughs .
ADRIAN: Oh , Rocky !
PAULIE: Christ .
ADRIAN: You did n't !
ROCKY: Sure I did . You heard .
COMMENTATOR: A Bicentennial Fight January first . It will be the first sporting event on ou two hundredth birthday and is already being called by many the greatest farce in sports history . If this man lasts more than a minute I would say he 's on borrowed time . It 's matches like this with their exorbitant prices that give sports a bad name Not only is this match bad , people , it 's sad ! Why a Rocky Balboa ? At the State Athletic Commission , Larry Duggan eporting .
PAULIE: The guy 's a friggin ' moron .
ROCKY: Why ?
PAULIE: Do n't it matter none he 's makin ' ya out a fool ? I 'd eak his lips .
ROCKY: It do n't matter .
PAULIE: He 's takin ' cheap shots .
ROCKY: It do n't bother me none .
PAULIE: Yo , Rock now ya 'll be lookin ' for people to help , ight ?
ROCKY: Help what ?
PAULIE: Y'know , to help keep ya livin ' clean .
ROCKY: I 'll do okay .
PAULIE: Ya got ta have a guy help ya exercise , mebbe somebody to be standin ' by with a towel o un errands , y'know .
ROCKY: Hey , who cared about me yesterday , huh ? Nobody I think I 'm gon na train myself .
PAULIE: Without havin ' good people around , ya wo n't have such a good chance .
ADRIAN: Einstein flunked out of school twice .
PAULIE: That so .
ADRIAN: Roosevelt finished last in his class Beethoven was deaf , an ' Helen Keller was blind I think Rocky has a good chance .
ROCKY: See ya tomorrow .
ADRIAN: I do n't know I was shocked . Why did you do that ?
ROCKY: Ya puttin ' me on , right ?
ADRIAN: Absolutely What time should I expect you ?
ROCKY: 'Bout seven .
ADRIAN: I 'll be waiting .
ROCKY: Y'know how I said that stuff on television did n't bother me ?
ADRIAN: Yes .
ROCKY: It did .
GAZZO: Hey if a good man can make a better life , let him make it .
ROCKY: I feel bad about walkin ' .
GAZZO: Take your shot , kid You got money for trainin ' expenses ?
ROCKY: A few bucks .
GAZZO: Here 's five hundred Put it in your glove .
ROCKY: Do I have to pay juice ?
GAZZO: Does Santa Claus charge juice ? Merry Christmas Now , how 's about my present , ya gon na win ?
ROCKY: Gon na try .
GAZZO: Listen , kid , I 'm with ya . Ya know , I 'm with ya Italian , we 're blood . You kill this ug We Guinneas got ta show these Afro-Americans where it 's at . Give it your best shot cause I want ya to prove to these bums on the corne that my man ca n't be beat by this rug Ya got any action on the side .
ROCKY: No action .
GAZZO: Ya gettin 150 grand killer . Ya got any plans for it ? Whatta ya think ?
ROCKY: I 'm gon na do somethin with it .
GAZZO: Sure , you do what ya want . Stay away from the stock market .
ROCKY: Black market ?
GAZZO: Same thing . Ya know , Rock , emember when we was kids , we fought together . An ' I was n't well an ' ya had to beat up that Irish kid what 's his name ? Gallager I bought a suit and became a businessman . You put on gloves . An ' I emember Mama almost cried , may she rest in peace an ' our ol ' man who said ya had no ains I 'd like to lay hands on that bastard . You ai n't never had any luck . Even when I owned you in '66 you never had luck . But now I think you might be gettin ' some luck kid . Whatta you think ?
ROCKY: Yo , you gon na show , Tony ?
GAZZO: Where else am I gon na go . Bet three grand on Rocky .
BODYGUARD: He 's a bum are you kiddin ?
GAZZO: No ! I 'm not kiddin ! Rocky walks away .
ROCKY: Look who 's home !
MICKEY: I seen the light . I figure somebody was home .
ROCKY: Hey , Mickey Whatta ya doin ' here ? Here , sit down .
MICKEY: How do you mean ?
ROCKY: I 'm usta seein ' ya at the gym , ut seein ' ya here , in my house , it 's kinda outta joint .
MICKEY: Listen , Rock , you 're a very lucky guy .
ROCKY: Yeah .
MICKEY: What 's happened is freak luck .
ROCKY: Freak luck for sure .
MICKEY: Look at all them other fighters . Real good boys . Good records . Colorful . Fight their hearts out for peanuts But who cared ? Nobody . They got it shoved in their back door . Nobody ever give them a shot at the title
ROCKY: Freak luck is a strange thing .
MICKEY: Whatta ' those ?
ROCKY: Turtles domestic turtles .
MICKEY: I 'm here tellin ' ya to be very smart with this shot . Like the Bible sez , ya do n't get no second chance . Mickey looks hard into Rocky 's eyes .
ROCKY: Fifty years , huh .
MICKEY: Fifty years . The rep is known around Philly , an ' a good rep ca n't be bought , but I do n't have to tell you that .
ROCKY: How 'bout a glass of water ?
MICKEY: Rocky , d'ya know what I done ?
ROCKY: What ?
MICKEY: I done it all . I 've done an ' seen everything ' . Believe what I 'm tellin ' ya Ya shoulda seen the night in Brooklyn , I smacked 'Ginny ' Russo outta the ring , Septembe 14 , 1923 same night Firpo knocked Dempsey outta the ring . But who got the Press ? He did . He had a manager Septembe
ROCKY: Ya got a good mind for dates .
MICKEY: Look at this face twenty- one stitches over the left eye , thirty-four over the ight my nose was busted seventeen times , the last eing the Sailor Mike fight New Year 's Eve , 1940 , in Camden , New Jersey What a professional pastin ' I give him . Here , read about it .
ROCKY: Nobody ever said that There 's his picture .
MICKEY: Yeah , ya kinda remind me of the Rock . Ya move like 'im .
ROCKY: Really think so ?
MICKEY: Ya got heart .
ROCKY: Heart , but I ai n't got no Tocker .
MICKEY: Christ , I know this business . Rocky , when I was fightin ' it was the dirtiest racket goin ' , see . Pugs like me was treated like fightin ' dogs throw ya in the pit an ' for ten bucks ya try to kill each other . We had no management
MICKEY: Respect , I always dished ya espect .
ROCKY: Ya gave Dipper my locker .
MICKEY: I 'm sorry , I I made a mistake . Kid , I 'm askin ' man to man . I wan na be ya manager .
ROCKY: The fight 's set I do n't need a manager .
MICKEY: Look , you ca n't buy what I know . Ya ca n't . I 've seen it all ! I got pain an ' I got experience .
ROCKY: I got pain an ' experience too .
MICKEY: Please , kid .
ROCKY: Whatever I got , I always got on the slide . This shot 's no different . I did n't earn nothin ' I got it on the slide I needed ya help about ten years ago when I was startin ' , but ya never helped me none .
MICKEY: If ya was wantin ' my help , why did n't ya ask ? Just ask .
ROCKY: I asked , but ya never helped nothin ' ! Like the Bible sez , ya do n't get no second chance .
MICKEY: Rocky , I 'm seventy-six years old . Maybe you can be the winner I never was you shot is my last shot !
PAULIE: How ya feelin ' ?
ROCKY: Tight .
PAULIE: I got whiskey here .
ROCKY: No .
PAULIE: This is the guy who 's fightin ' Apollo Creed .
JOSE: Good luck Kill him , man .
PAULIE: Hip Hip Hooray ! C'mon Hip Hip
JOSE: Hooray , man .
PAULIE: Rock 'll be comin ' by every mornin ' to pick up some Prime ca n't train on that store crap .
ROCKY: Gazzo 's a good man .
PAULIE: How 'bout you talk to 'em about me ? Please do me that favor .
ROCKY: Keep this job , ya eat better .
PAULIE: Y'know , d'ya think you an ' my sister Ah , doin ' good together ?
ROCKY: Whatta you think ?
PAULIE: Ai n't sure , what 's the story ?
ROCKY: What ?
PAULIE: The story what 's happenin ' ?
ROCKY: Sure I like her .
PAULIE: What 's the attraction ? I do n't see it ?
ROCKY: I dunno she fills gaps .
PAULIE: What gaps ?
ROCKY: She got gaps . I got gaps together we fill the gaps .
PAULIE: You ballin ' her ?
ROCKY: Do n't talk dirty 'bout ya sister .
PAULIE: C'mon , ya screwin ' her ?
ROCKY: That 's why I ca n't put ya together with Gazzo , cause ya talk too much big mouth .
PAULIE: Hit the rump . The rump ! Ya 'll break the ribs !
ROCKY: Do n't talk dirty 'bout ya sister .
MICKEY: Stop ! Stop ! I ca n't stand it ! It 's clumsy . You 're off alance .
ROCKY: I never had good footwork . Mike completes the task .
MICKEY: Forget the footwork You 're off balance . The legs are sticking everywhere . Marciano had the same problem , an ' the string cured it . When you can hit and move without breakin ' the string you 'll have balance .
MIKE: You 'll be a very dangerous person .
BOY: Rocky , could we have you autograph ?
ROCKY: Sure .
MICKEY: Do n't you boys ever interrupt when I 'm conductin ' business , or I 'll kill you both Go away . The boys depart .
MIKE: we got visitors .
MICKEY: Can I help you guys ?
REPORTER: Set the camera up over there . We 're from Channel Seven Covering the pre-fight training .
MICKEY: I own the place .
CAMERAMAN: Rolling here .
SOUND MAN: Speed here .
REPORTER: We 're here at Goldmill 's Gym A Philadelphia landmark of sorts since 1929 The stench of toil permeates every corner . The sweat a trademark of a unique profession Yet , the most unique fixture is an unprecedented 50 to 1 underdog heavyweight named , Rocky Balboa . The camera turns to Rocky .
ROCKY: Should I do this ?
REPORTER: So much has happened lately Has it changed your life style much ?
ROCKY: People talk to me more .
REPORTER: How 're you preparing for this Bicentennial bout ? A young punchy fighter yells out
FIGHTER: Readin ' fuckin ' history books , man ! The gym explodes with laughter .
REPORTER: We can cut that out later . Apollo Creed says he 'll let you stay three rounds before he puts you away .
ROCKY: Apollo 's a great fighter .
REPORTER: Do you feel you have a chance ?
ROCKY: Maybe He faces Mickey . Mickey whispers in his ear .
REPORTER: Do you have anything derogatory to say about the Champion ?
ROCKY: Derogatory ? Yeah , he 's great . Apollo Creed and his entourage enter the gym .
APOLLO: I am the Champion of the whole world ! ! !
DIPPER: Ya nothin ' , Boy !
MICKEY: What 's happenin ' here ?
DIPPER: I 'm happenin ' ! This pig is takin ' my shot I iz a contender . He 's nothin ' .
ROCKY: Yo ' , Dipper , why 're ya
DIPPER: Spar me in front of these here TV dudes I knock ya ass to Jersey !
MICKEY: You can forget about sparring , kid .
DIPPER: Yo ' know I iz the best man here ! Yo ' said so yoself !
MICKEY: Why let Rocky here take a chance on cuttin ' or breakin ' a hand ? Take a shower , Dipper .
DIPPER: Do n't mouth me , old man , I 'll knock yo ' out too . C'mon , wop , spar me , let everybody see who 's got the heat around here .
MIKE: Do n't chance it , man He 's sick .
MICKEY: This is gettin ' outta hand Rocky will fight in the ring January first , not here !
DIPPER: Yo ' yellow , old man .
MICKEY: Not yellow , cautious . See , it 's very easy for a fighter to accidentally hurt
DIPPER: If yo 're afraid to fight me , then get down an ' kiss my feet , boy .
MICKEY: Let 's take a walk , Rock . Please , do n't take a chance . He wants to hurt you so you ca n't fight .
MIKE: Why you tryin ' to cut 'im , man ! Back off , scumbag , or I 'll ite your face !
DIPPER: Now , boy , kiss my feet .
MICKEY: The kid 's got cannons Print that .
ADRIAN: Do n't you open them anymore ?
ROCKY: They either say , 'Kill the nigger ' or 'Hope you die , Honky . ' What ya got in the ag ?
ADRIAN: Like ?
ROCKY: Sharp Real nice .
ADRIAN: Really You do n't think they 're overly feminine ?
ROCKY: No Sharp You look great .
ADRIAN: Do n't want weak legs .
ROCKY: Ca n't fool around You look very great .
ADRIAN: The legs .
ROCKY: Yeah But I think weak legs ai n't bad sometimes , y'know .
ADRIAN: I thought it might be cute .
ROCKY: Ya right Mebbe we best just hold hands the shirt made me feel guilty , y'know .
PAULIE: Yo , Rock . I made a few phone calls an ' thanks to me ya goin ' to be a big man Thatta dog ?
ROCKY: Whatta these guys want ?
PAULIE: To see ya train .
ROCKY: Yo , what 's with you ? It was suppose to be private .
PAULIE: I thought I was doin ' ya a favor C'mon inside Y'know , my sister really likes ya . Rocky follows Paulie inside .
COMMENTATOR: Just relax , Mr. Balboa Today we 're here with heavyweight challenger , Rocky Balboa . The reason we are standing in a refrigerated box is that Mr. Balboa has an unusual method of training and in a moment he is going to demonstrate it for our viewing audience But first , Rocky , how did you ever come to train in an icebox ?
ROCKY: Ah My buddy Paulie let me in one day an ' I hit the beef here an ' liked it An ' since I become a challenger , the owner do n't mind neither .
COMMENTATOR: Is this a common training method I mean do othe fighters pound raw meat ?
ROCKY: I think me and Paulie invented it .
COMMENTATOR: Would you give us a demonstration ?
APOLLO: How much is being channeled into West Coast closed-circuit advertising ?
LAWYER: Three hundred thousand .
APOLLO: Make it four hundred an ' fifty . Send two hundred roses to the mayor 's wife from me , get a picture an ' make sure it gets all the papers .
BUSINESSMAN #3: Do ya want to run the fifteen adio spots in the mid-west ? I think you could spend the money better in Canadian publicity .
APOLLO: Yeah , I 'd like to get Canada see , if we can get a tax eak Gim me the figures on the Program Concession .
TRAINER: Apollo , you oughta come see this boy you 're gon na fight on TV looks like he means usiness . Apollo is still engrossed in his paperwork .
APOLLO: I mean business , too The gross rental of the arena is gon na include the fou hundred ushers , right ? Gim me some coffee .
ADRIAN: And he called the eporters
ROCKY: Yeah Threw my whole day off .
ADRIAN: Do n't be mad at him He just wants to help .
ROCKY: Yo I ai n't mad . I 'm just outta joint when reporters are around They take cheap shots an ' Paulie knows it .
ADRIAN: Are you going to say anything to him ?
ROCKY: What 's to say ? I dunno what he wants from me
PAULIE: Nothin ' ! I want nothin ' from you ! ! !
ADRIAN: Paulie !
PAULIE: Shutup ! I want nothin ' I ai n't no charity case ! Get outta my house !
ADRIAN: It 's not your house
PAULIE: You ai n't no friend no more Go home ! Outta my house I want ya !
ADRIAN: Do n't talk like that to him !
PAULIE: Get outta my life both of ya 's .
ROCKY: It 's cold outside , Paulie .
PAULIE: I do n't want ya messin ' up my sister no more He 's scum from the corner , I do n't raise ya to hang with no bum !
ADRIAN: Paulie . Stop now !
PAULIE: I want 'im outta here Do n't think I 'm good enough to work for Gazzo ? That 's what I think of bums like you an ' Gazzo ! You 're goin ' up an ' do n't care enough to throw Paulie some crumbs ! I give ya meat , an ' I give ya my sister , too !
ADRIAN: Only a pig would say that ! Paulie smashes a small table with the bat .
PAULIE: You forget what I went through to give ya the best .
ADRIAN: You gave me what ? ! Knots ! You gave me knots in here every day you made me scared of everything !
PAULIE: I always seen ya had the best , ut did ya ever think of puttin ' in a good word for me with this scumbag ! Paulie smashes a large lamp with the bat .
ADRIAN: Do n't do that again !
PAULIE: Get away from me I could never even get married 'cause you could n't live by yaself ya 'd die by yaself ! So instead I put you two together Did ya think of puttin ' in a good word fo me ? You owe me !
ADRIAN: Owe you what ?
PAULIE: You owe me an ' are supposed to treat me good !
ADRIAN: Good ? Good , Paulie ? ! I 've een treatin ' you like a baby . Since I ca n't remember it 's so long I 'm the only one who feeds you an ' puts you in bed when ya ca n't stand up and it 's you that made me feel like a loser That 's what ya use to call me 'Loser ' What kind of name is that ? So can ya blame me for not remembering to talk about you when I 'm with Rocky I do n't owe you , Paulie , you owe me .
PAULIE: You busted ? !
ADRIAN: What ? !
PAULIE: You a virgin ? Ya let 'im in ya pants , did n't ya ! Ya pulled down ya pants an ' let him have it , did n't ya ! !
ROCKY: Hey
PAULIE: I ca n't haul meat no more .
ROCKY: What can I do about it ?
PAULIE: Christ , I been beggin ' ya fo a break until I 'm sick inside .
ROCKY: What break ? Huh ? What break ! Who am I to give breaks ! I 'm a fighter , you haul meat . You do what you do an ' I do what I do best that 's it that 's life , man !
ADRIAN: Yes
MICKEY: His defense is great , ca n't lie 'bout that You have a ollin ' style . Ca n't retreat as fast But your style ai n't retreatin ' . They both watch the flickering images .
MICKEY: What cha say , Benny Meet 'The Rock . ' This is ou cutman , Benny Stein .
ROCKY: Yo , Benny .
MICKEY: Check the eyes , Ben .
BENNY: Ai n't bad . Seen worse Cover up an ' things should be okay .
MICKEY: Take a shower .
PAULIE: Yo , Rock , I think I found an angle to make some bread usin ' ya name , ya mind ?
MAYOR: Sit down , Rocky .
ROCKY: I 'll try .
MAYOR: Would you stand up , please .
ROCKY: Any time .
MAYOR: Wait After the fight you 'll have nearly a hundred and fifty thousand dollars What do you plan to do with it ?
ROCKY: Run for mayor .
ADRIAN: Rocky , do you realize everybody in this country knows you face , and after the fight everybody in the world is going to .
ROCKY: Yeah
ADRIAN: What was that you said about a pet shop ?
ROCKY: What ?
ADRIAN: What did you say about a pet shop ?
ROCKY: I do n't want ya cleanin ' nobody else 's cages no more .
ADRIAN: Is everything all right ?
ROCKY: I got ta go out for a while .
MICKEY: I know what you 're thinkin 'm kid At least ya got ta shot All ya can do is try ya ' best .
ROCKY: Ca n't do it .
ADRIAN: What ?
ROCKY: I ca n't beat him .
ADRIAN: Apollo ?
ROCKY: Yeah , I ca n't beat him . Adrian touches his face .
ADRIAN: What 're we going to do ?
ROCKY: I dunno .
ADRIAN: Oh , Rocky you worked so hard .
ROCKY: It ai n't so bad , 'cause I was a nothin ' before
ADRIAN: Do n't say that .
ROCKY: C'mon , it 's true But that do n't bother me I just wan na prove somethin ' I ai n't no bum It do n't matter if I lose Do n't matter if he opens my head The only thing I wan na do is go the distance That 's all . Nobody 's ever gone fifteen ounds with Creed . If I go them fifteen rounds , an ' that ell rings an ' I 'm still standin ' , I 'm gon na know then I were n't just another bum from the neighborhood
MICKEY: It 's time , kid . Rocky nods and moves toward Adrian .
ADRIAN: I 'll wait for you here .
ROCKY: Yo , Mick , can I have my rob ?
MICKEY: Do n't you care what the people will say ?
ROCKY: I 'm doin ' it for a friend .
MICKEY: Whatta you get outta this ?
ROCKY: I get the robe an ' Paulie gets three grand .
MICKEY: Shrewd .
COMMENTATOR #1: We would like to welcome ou viewing audience to the Grand World Championship Bicentennial Heavyweight Fight the first major event of the Bicentennial Year A point of interest is that the fight is being beamed to more than seven hundred and fifty million fans in theatres in nearly every corner of the world . I would like to welcome an old friend , and co- commentator for this evening 's event Jimmy Michaels .
COMMENTATOR #2: Thank you , Bob . The electricity is everywhere tonight . Rocky Balboa , a fifty-to-one underdog , is living a Cinderella story which has captured peoples ' imaginations all over the world to quote a popula sports magazine , 'The fighting style should be 'The Caveman Against the Cavalier . ' From the increase in sound it appears the challenger is now approaching the ring His ecord is forty-four wins , twenty losses and thirty-eight knockouts .
COMMENTATOR #1: I only wonder if this man has the skill to go past three ounds Vegas odds say , 'no . '
COMMENTATOR #2: You could go deaf with the noise it undoubtedly means Champion Apollo Creed is heading towards the ring
COMMENTATOR #1: Am I seeing right ? Creed is approaching the ring in a boat . Is he supposed to be George Washington ? Obviously so .
COMMENTATOR #2: It 's been confirmed that it is definitely an impersonation of George Washington a great way to start 1976 off .
COMMENTATOR #1: I agree .
APOLLO: I want you ! I want you !
MICKEY: Do n't let 'im get you tight .
ROCKY: Whatta ya think that outfit cost ?
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen Welcome to the Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship Fight We are very proud to have with us four former Great Champions Ladies an ' gents , 'The one and only 'Manassa Mauler ' Jack Dempsey ! '
DEMPSEY: Good luck , kid . He moves off .
ROCKY: Christ , Jack Dempsey .
ANNOUNCER: Former Middleweight Champion 'The Bronx Bull ' Jake LaMotta !
ANNOUNCER: The man with the big punch Everybody 's favorite , 'The Brown Bomber ' Joe Louis !
ROCKY: They must be friends .
ANNOUNCER: Now , last but certainly not least the former Heavyweight Champion , a son of Philly , Smoking Joe Frazier !
FRAZIER: Save some of him for me .
COMMENTATOR #1: The former champ looks great Can we get Joe over here here he comes .
FRAZIER: Well , I think any man who works an ' trains hard always got ta chance .
COMMENTATOR #2: You look in great shape , Joe .
FRAZIER: I 'm always in shape .
ANNOUNCER: Now for the evening 's main event In the corner to my ight , The Challenger , wearing white trunks At one hundred an ' ninety-one pounds , one of Philly 's own sons 'The Italian Stallion , ' Rocky Balboa ! A good CROWD RESPONSE .
ANNOUNCER: In the far corner , wearing ed , white an ' blue Weighing in at two hundred and ten pounds Undefeated in forty- six fights the Heavyweight Champion of the World 'The Master of Disaster ' Apollo Creed !
REFEREE: Now come out fighting . The fighters return to their corners .
MICKEY: God bless ya , Rock .
ROCKY: Thanks , Mick I 'm gon na try .
COMMENTATOR #1: The Champ stings the slowe challenger with jabs at will Balboa blocks eighty percent of the blows with his face Creed does n't look the est he 's ever been but is moving smoothly Creed snaps out a triple combination that acks Balboa into a corner oh , a solid hook by Creed , a master of fist-men .
COMMENTATOR #2: The Champion is smiling and toying with the man trying to give the fans their money 's worth and make a show of it with the badly out-classes challenger Another left to ight combination . I feel sorry for
COMMENTATOR #1: Creed is down ! ! !
MICKEY: You can do it ! Goddamnit , you got the power ! The body , get the body ! ! ! Ya got him goin ' !
REFEREE: Six ! Seven ! Eight !
APOLLO: Come at me , sucker !
ROCKY: How am I doin ' ?
MICKEY: Real good .
ROCKY: See how fast he is damn !
MICKEY: Breathe deep Keep ya chin down ! ! Use the legs and drive through 'im . Attack Attack Attack !
APOLLO: That boy damn near broke my arm .
TRAINER: Sure He can hit Do n't play no more Stick an ' move , hear ?
APOLLO: I 'll carry him 'till the third .
TRAINER: Do n't play with this man , he 's fightin ' hard Let 'em feel some real heat !
APOLLO: Man , I rearranged his face with that right The people love what 's happenin ' tonight .
TRAINER: People nothin ' , you in a fight , my man , ya best elieve what you hear Knock that boy out soon an ' let 's go home .
MICKEY: Ya nose is broke .
ROCKY: Damn ! How 's it look ?
MICKEY: Ca n't hardly tell . Do n't swallow the blood Go fo his ribs . Do n't let 'im eathe .
ROCKY: The guy 's great .
MICKEY: Why do n't ya tell 'im you 're a fan !
COMMENTATOR #2: If you had asked anyone who knows boxing , they neve would 've predicted a first ound knockdown and the second ound punishment to the body of the Champion Most fighters will tell you , eceiving a good body punch is the next worst thing to dying .
COMMENTATOR #1: Round three ready to start and should be interesting to see if Creed can put the challenge away there goes the bell .
COMMENTATOR #1: Apollo almost sprints out of his corner feints and throws a pair of left-right combinations . Balboa drops eneath a left upper cut and lands a very solid shot on Creed 's temple not much movement from Balboa , duck a left , a right , another left and explodes with a right hook to the temple I mean explodes . The Champ backs off .
COMMENTATOR #2: There 's no way Apollo expected this kind of hitting power .
COMMENTATOR #1: No way but the brilliant ability of the Champion to master situations like this is one of his most outstanding traits Creed tosses a perfect right hand that rocks Rocky .
TRAINER: Cover your face ! Cover up ! My man 's cut , my man 's leedin ' Get ready !
TRAINER: Bad ? Talk to me , man !
DOCTOR: Deep , but passable .
APOLLO: That man 's takin ' his jo too serious .
TRAINER: He 's movin ' to your left do n't let him no more dance and stick , hear ? Do n't play I know what ya feelin ' , ut do n't play .
APOLLO: He got lucky .
TRAINER: Luck ! You fightin ' a crazy man but you got him hurt ad . More ice , now !
MICKEY: How you holdin ' up , kid ?
ROCKY: Fine That guy 's great .
MICKEY: Gim me the water ! Ya getttin ' tagged with his right . I think you should feint left and high hook 'im Benny , check the eyes ! Can ya see ?
ROCKY: See what ?
MIKE: Ya sappin ' his strength He 's losin ' steam .
ROCKY: He ai n't losin ' nothin ' .
MICKEY: Keep on him You 're doin ' great .
ANDY: The Rock 's got real stones .
APOLLO: C'mon Lem me cut yo ' !
COMMENTATOR #1: Without a doubt this is the most punishing brawl I have ever seen The ringside audience is spotted with blood .
COMMENTATOR #2: Not only has he refused to fall , but he has beaten the Champion 's body without mercy and the bout has become a vicious slugfest .
APOLLO: My side .
TRAINER: Get that doctor .
APOLLO: No doctor !
TRAINER: You 're hurtin ' , man !
APOLLO: No doctor ! I 'm feelin ' good , bro !
MICKEY: Wan na keep goin ' ?
ROCKY: Would you keep goin ' ?
MICKEY: Yeah .
MIKE: No more , ya wan na lose an eye ? No more .
ROCKY: Open my eyes Please , open my eyes !
REFEREE: Six Seven Eight
APOLLO: Ribs broke
TRAINER: Yo ' bleedin ' inside , man Get that doctor .
APOLLO: One more round .
TRAINER: Do n't kill yourself , man Let the doctor stop the fight .
APOLLO: Stop jivin ' !
TRAINER: Cover the ribs Look here , elbow down , tight Tight stand straight you 're the est , you 're the best !
APOLLO: Thanks .
ROCKY: How I look out there , Mick ?
MICKEY: Great , kid , great .
DOCTOR: One more round How do you feel ?
ROCKY: Fine Go away , I 'm gon na make it I 'm gon na make it !
MICKEY: We got ta stop it , kid .
MIKE: Ya gave it ya best shot !
MICKEY: Nobody 's gon na say ya did n't give ya all . I ca n't let ya go out . Rocky stands and eyes them all .
ROCKY: I 'll kill ya all Do n't stop nothin '
COMMENTATOR #1: The fight has slowed down to a near stand-still Creed circles to Rocky 's right The spectrum is nearly silent Neither fighter has made a motion to throw I 've never seen anything like it in the last round of a championship fight Apollo spits blood on the canvas . It appears he is protecting his ight side . His ribs were probably injured at the end of ound fourteen .
ROCKY: Gim me ya best ! ! ! !
SIX: FIVE FOUR THREE TWO ONE !
APOLLO: Ai n't gon na be no rematch .
ROCKY: Do n't want one .
ANNOUNCER: Attention , please ! ! Attention ! ! Ladies and gentlemen , tonight we have had the rare privilege to have witnessed the greatest exhibitions of stamina and guts ever in the history of sports . The CROWD ROARS .
ANNOUNCER: Judge Walker scores it eight- seven Creed Judge Roseman scores it eight-seven Balboa .
ANNOUNCER: Judge Conners scores it nine- six Creed Winner and still Heavyweight Champion of the World , Apollo Creed !
MICKEY: I do n't care what they say , you 're a winner .
ROCKY: Yo , can I have my locker back ?
ADRIAN: I love you I love you I love you
THE: ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW
VOICE OVER: Michael Rennie was ill . The day the earth stood still But he told us where we stand
CHORUS: Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late night , double-feature Picture Show .
VOICE OVER: I knew Leo G. Carrol Was over a barrel When tarantula took to the hills
CHORUS: Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late-night , double-feature Picture Show By RKO O- Oh At the late-night , double-feature Picture Show In the back row At the late-night , double-feature Picture Show I want to go .
RALPH: Well Brad , I guess we made it huh !
BRAD: Well I do n't think there was any doubt about that - You and Betty have been almost inseparable ever since you sat in on Dr Scott 's refresher lectures .
RALPH: Tell you the truth Brad , she was the only reason I came in the first place . Science was never one of my favourite subjects but I sure with Dr Scott could have made it today .
BRAD: Yes , Janet and I are both fond of him . We drove over to see him last vacation . It 's a shame his new job took him away from Denton . BETTY , the bride , throws the bouquet . JANET catches it . She squeals with delight . The GUESTS cheer .
RALPH: Hey fella . It looks like it could be your turn next .
BRAD: Who knowsha ha .
JANET: Yes .
BRAD: Everyone knows Betty 's a wonderful little cook .
JANET: Yes .
BRAD: And Ralph himself will be in line fo promotion in a year or so .
JANET: Yes .
BRAD: I 've got something to say .
JANET: Uh huh .
BRAD: I really loved the skilful way You beat the other girls To the bride 's bouquet .
JANET: Oh Brad .
BRAD: The river was deep but I swam it . FAMILY Janet .
JANET: Oh ! It 's nicer than Betty Munroe had MAGENTA Oh Brad .
WHOLE FAMILY: Oh Brad . JANET I 've one thing to say And that 's , Brad I 'm mad , For you too . BRAD & JANET start to walk d.s. , arm in arm .
BRAD: Oh Dammit . JANET I 'm mad..
JANET: For you . BRAD I love you too-oo-oo .
BRAD: And that 's go see the man Who began it FAMILY Janet .
FAMILY: Janet .
BRAD: Made me give you the eye And then panic ,
FAMILY: Janet FAMILY lower coffin onto floor .
BRAD: I 've got one thing to say , and that 's Dammit , Janet . I love you . JANET runs to BRAD and he hugs her . BRAD Dammit , Janet .
JANET: Oh Brad , I 'm mad .
BRAD: Dammit , Janet .
NARRATOR: I would like if I may to take you on a strange journey .
JANET: Gosh . That 's the third motorcyclist that 's passed us . They certainly take their lives in their hands . What with the weather and all .
BRAD: Yes , Janet . Life 's pretty cheap to that type . JANET takes another stick of gum . Offers BRAD some . He declines . The car slows to a halt .
JANET: What 's the matter Brad , darling ? Headlights on sign reading `` DEAD END '' .
BRAD: I think we took the wrong fork a few miles back .
JANET: Oh dear ! But then where did the motorcyclists come from ?
BRAD: Hmmm Well , I guess we will have to turn back .
JANET: What was that bang ?
BRAD: We must have a blow-out .
JANET: Oh Pause
BRAD: You 'd better sit here and keep warm while I go for help .
JANET: But where will you go ? We 're in the middle of nowhere .
BRAD: Did n't we pass a castle back down the oad a few miles ? Maybe they have a telephone I might use . He unbuckles his seatbelt .
JANET: I 'm coming with you .
BRAD: There 's no point both of us getting wet .
JANET: I 'm coming with you . Besides , darling , the owner of the phone might be a beautiful woman and you may never come back . BRAD laughs . A thunderclap .
JANET: In the velvet darkness Of the blackest night Burning bright .
PHANTOM VOICES: Over at the Frankenstein place . BRAD stares hard .
BRAD: There 's a light . The castle looms closer .
PHANTOM VOICES: Burning in the fireplace .
JANET: There 's a light , a light In the darkness of everybody 's life
BRAD: I can see the flag fly I can see the rain Just the same There has got to be Something better here For you and me . Lighting strikes . JANET jumps towards BRAD .
PHANTOM VOICES: Burning in the fireplace .
BRAD: There 's a light .
BRAD: A light In the darkness of everybody 's life .
RIFF RAFF: The darkness must go Down the river of nights dreaming Flow morphia slow Let the sun and light come streaming Into my life .
RIFF RAFF: Into my life .
PHANTOM VOICES: Over at the Frankenstein place .
PHANTOM VOICES: Burning in the fireplace .
PHANTOM VOICES: There 's a light , a light .
NARRATOR: And so it seemed that fortune had smiled on Brad and Janet and that they had found the assistance that their plight required - or had they ? Thunderclap .
JANET: Oh , Brad . Let 's go back . I 'm cold and I 'm frightened .
BRAD: Just a moment , Janet . They may have a telephone .
RIFF RAFF: Hello .
BRAD: Uh - oh - Hi ! My name is Brad Majors . And this is my fiancee , Janet Weiss . I - ah - wondered if you could help us . Ou car has broken down about two miles up the oad . Do you have a phone we might use ?
RIFF RAFF: You 're wet .
JANET: Yes , the rain has been very heavy .
BRAD: Yes .
RIFF RAFF: Yes .
JANET: You 're too kind . They enter apprehensively .
JANET: Oh Brad , I 'm frightened . What kind of place is this ?
BRAD: Oh , it 's probably some kind of hunting lodge for rich weirdos .
RIFF RAFF: This way . JANET steps over the vacuum lead .
JANET: Are you - giving a party ?
RIFF RAFF: No . You 've arrived on a rather special night . It 's one of the master 's affairs .
JANET: Oh , lucky him .
MAGENTA: He 's lucky .
RIFF RAFF: It 's astounding Time is fleeting Madness takes its toll But listen closely Not for very much longe I 've got to keep control . MAGENTA gives RIFF RAFF a strange signal .
GUESTS: Let 's do the Time Warp again . JANET falls into BRAD 's arms . RIFF RAFF is ecstatic . BRAD revives JANET .
NARRATOR: It 's just a jump to the left .
GUESTS: And a step to the right - right - ight - right - right .
NARRATOR: With your hands on your hips .
GUESTS: You bring your knees in tight . But it 's the pelvic thrust .
MAGENTA: It 's so dreamy Oh , fantasy free me So you ca n't see me No not at all . BRAD and JANET look at each other in alarm . In another dimension . With voyeuristic intention . BRAD blushes . Well secluded I see all With a bit of a mind flip You 're into the time slip Nothing will ever seem the same . They are back at the balcony . You 're spaced out on sensation . They are at the edge of the balcony . Like you 're under sedation .
GUESTS: Let 's do the Time Warp again . BRAD and JANET are completely dismayed .
COLUMBIA: Well I was walking down the street Just having a think When a snake of a guy Gave me an evil wink . Well it shook me up It took me by surprise He had a pick-up truck And the devil 's eyes He stared at me And I felt a change Time meant nothing Never would again .
GUESTS: Let 's do the Time Warp again . BRAD and JANET are reeling .
NARRATOR: It 's just a jump to the left . He jumps to the left .
GUESTS: And then a step to the right . The GUESTS take one .
NARRATOR: With your hands on your hips .
GUESTS: You bring your knees in tight .
JANET: Oh.Say something .
BRAD: Say ! Do any of you guys know the Madison ? No one laughs . GUESTS turn nasty .
JANET: Brad , please lets get out of here .
BRAD: For God 's sake keep a grip on yourself Janet .
JANET: But it seems so unhealthy here .
BRAD: It 's just a..a party Janet .
JANET: Well I want to leave .
BRAD: We ca n't go anywhere until I get to a phone .
JANET: Then ask the butler - or someone .
BRAD: Let 's wait awhile Janet . We do n't want to interfere with their celebrations .
JANET: This is n't the Junior Chamber of Commerce Brad .
BRAD: They 're probably foreigners with ways different from our own . - They may do some more folk dancing .
JANET: Brad - I 'm cold , I 'm wet , and plain scared .
BRAD: I 'm here , there 's nothing to worry about . GUESTS rise , staring mesmerised at the lift .
FRANK: How do you do . I see you 've met my faithful handyman . He 's a little brought down - Because when you knocked He thought you were the candyman . RIFF RAFF scowls .
BRAD: I 'm glad we caught you at home Ah - could we use your phone We 're both in a bit of a hurry . JANET joins BRAD .
JANET: Right !
BRAD: We 'll just say where we are Then go back to the ca We do n't want to be any worry . FRANK turns on them .
FRANK: You got caught with a flat Well how about that Well babies do n't you panic By the light of the night It 'll seem alright I 'll get you a satanic mechanic .
GUESTS: `` Sweet Transvestite ''
FRANK: From Transexual Transylvania .
GUESTS: `` Transylvania ''
FRANK: So come up to the Lab .
COLUMBIA: Slowly , slowly . It 's too nice a jo to rush .
JANET: Oh Brad .
BRAD: It 's alright Janet , we 'll play along for now and pull out the aces when the time is right .
COLUMBIA: You are very lucky to be invited up to Frank 's laboratory . Some people would give their right arm for the privilege .
BRAD: People like you maybe
COLUMBIA: I 've seen it . COLUMBIA escorts them to the lift .
JANET: It he - Frank - is he your husband ? General amusement .
RIFF RAFF: The Master is not yet married . No do I think he ever will be . We are simply his servants .
JANET: Oh . The lift grinds to a halt . They have arrived at the laboratory .
FRANK: Magenta , Columbia , go and assist Riff Raff .
BRAD: I 'm Brad Majors and this is my fiancee , Janet Vice .
JANET: Weiss .
BRAD: Weiss . FRANK Encante.How nice . And what charming underclothes you both have . . But here , put these on . They 'll make you feel less vulnerable . MAGENTA & COLUMBIA cross to the podium . FRANK It 's not often we receive visitors here . Let alone offer them hospitality . BRAD Hospitality ! All we wanted to do was use your telephone . A reasonable request which you have chosen to ignore . JANET Do n't be ungrateful Brad . BRAD Ungrateful !
FRANK: How forceful you are Brad . Such a perfect specimen of manhood . So dominant . MAGENTA & COLUMBIA laugh . You must be awfully proud of him Janet .
JANET: Well , yes I am .
FRANK: Do you have any tattoos Brad .
BRAD: Certainly not !
FRANK: Oh well . How about you .
RIFF RAFF: Everything is in readiness , Master . We merely await your word .
FRANK: TonightOne , one , one . Can you hea me at the back ? Tonight , my unconventional conventionists . MAGENTA , COLUMBIA and GUESTS laugh politely .
JANET: Brad
BRAD: It 's alright Janet .
ROCKY: The Sword of Damocles is Hanging over my head .
GUESTS: That ai n't no crime
ROCKY: My high is low . I 'm dressed up With no place to go . And all I know Is I 'm at the start Of a pretty big downer .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime .
ROCKY: No no no , no no .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime - That ai n't no crime . ROCKY is now unbandaged . He strikes a pose .
NARRATOR: Rocky needed peace of mind . He did n't know He was doing just fine . He was the product Of another time . And as for feeling down - Well that 's not a crime .
GUESTS: That ai n't no crime . ROCKY And I 've got the feeling Someone 's going to be Cutting the thread .
ROCKY: Oh no no no no .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime .
ROCKY: No no no no .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime . That ai n't no crime .
ROCKY: No no no no .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime .
ROCKY: No no no no .
GUESTS: Sha la la la That ai n't no crime - That ai n't no crime .
FRANK: Well . That 's no way to ehave on your first day out . ROCKY looks hurt . But as you 're such an exceptional beauty I 'm prepared to forgive .
JANET: Well . I do n't like men wither , with too many , muscles .
FRANK: I did n't make him for you
COLUMBIA: Eddie !
EDDIE: Stay cool baby .
JANET: Who 's Eddie ?
RIFF RAFF: The delivery boy .
MAGENTA: His delivery was n't good enough though . ROCKY looks terrified . JANET has fainted yet again . EDDIE comes to life .
EDDIE: Whatever happened to Saturday night When you dressed up sharp And you felt alright It do n't seem the same since cosmic light Came into my life and I thought I was divine . COLUMBIA leaps on to the pillion seat . I used to go for a ride with a chick who 'd go And listen to the music on the radio .
ALL: Hot patootie Bless my soul I really love that rock and roll
EDDIE: My head used to swim From the perfume I smelled . My hands kind of fumbled With her white plastic belt . I 'd taster her baby pink lipstick , And that 's when I 'd melt . And she 'd whisper in my ear , Tonight she really was mine . Get back in front and put Some hair oil on . Buddy Holly was singing His very last song . With your arms around your girl You tried to - ah - sing along It felt pretty good , whoo . Really had a good ti-i-ime .
ALL: Hot patootie Bless my soul . I really love that rock and roll . Hot patootie Bless my soul . I really love that rock and roll . Hot patootie Bless my soul . You know I love that rock and roll . Hot patootie Bless my soul . I really love that rock and roll . 4 bars instrumental
FRANK: One from the vaults .
NARRATOR: There are some people who say that life is an illusion , and that reality is simply a figment of our imaginations ! If this is so , then Brad and Janet are quite safe . However , the sudden departure of thei host and his creation had left them feeling both apprehensive and uneasy . A feeling which grew as the other guests 'departed ' and 'they ' were shown to thei separate rooms .
JANET: Who is it ? Who 's there ? BRAD 's voice from behind the door .
BRAD'S VOICE: It 's only me , Janet . She relaxes .
JANET: Oh , Brad , come in , darling .
BRAD: It 's alright Janet . Everything 's going to be alright .
JANET: Oh , I hope so my darling . But let me switch on the light .
BRAD: No , do n't do that .
JANET: Oh do n't be so shy . She switches on the light to reveal FRANK .
FRANK: I 'm afraid so , Janet . But is n't it nice ?
JANET: You beast , you monster , what have you done with Brad ?
FRANK: Nothing . Why , do you think I should ?
JANET: You tricked me - I would n't have - I 've never - neve
FRANK: I know . But it was n't all bad was it ?
JANET: Oh - Oh - no - stop - I mean help . I - Brad - Oh . Brad . FRANK places a finger on her lips .
FRANK: Ssssh . Brad 's probably asleep by now . Do you want him to see you like this ?
JANET: Like this - like how ? It 's your fault . You 're to blame . I was saving myself .
FRANK: Well , I 'm sure you 're not spent yet . He switches off the light .
JANET: Promise you wo n't tell Brad .
FRANK: Cross my heart and hope to die . JANET squeals with excitement .
JANET'S VOICE: Oh Brad , it 's no good here . It will destroy us . BRAD takes her hand .
BRAD: Do n't worry Janet , we 'll be away from here in the morning . Hmmmm , you smell so good .
JANET: Oh Brad . Oh no . Not till afte the wedding , Darling . BRAD sits up .
BRAD: Alright , Janet . I understand . The shadow rolls over .
JANET: Maybe we could try it this way .
BRAD: Janet ! Oh ! Yes it 's alright . Janet . Everything 's going to be alright .
JANET: I hope so my darling . BRAD reaches out to the light . No , do n't put on the l
BRAD: You !
FRANK: I 'm afraid so , Brad . But was n't it nice ? BRAD grabs FRANK around the throat .
BRAD: Why you - what have you done with Janet ?
FRANK: Nothing . Why do you think I should ? BRAD lets him go and turns away humiliated .
BRAD: You tricked me . I would n't have - I 've never - never .
FRANK: I know , but it was n't all bad was it ? I think you found it quite pleasurable . Oh so soft . So sensual .
BRAD: Ahhh - no - stop - I mean Janet . Janet .
FRANK: Shush . Janet 's probably asleep by now . Do you want her to see you like this ?
BRAD: Like this . Like how ? It 's your fault - you 're to lame . I thought it was the real thing .
FRANK: Oh come on , Brad , admit it . It was enjoyable , was n't it ? There 's no crime in giving yourself over to pleasure . FRANK Oh Brad , you have wasted so much time
BRAD: You promise you wo n't tell ?
FRANK: On my mother 's grave .
RIFF RAFF: Master , Rocky has broken his chains and vanished . The new playmate is loose and in the castle ground . Magenta has just released the dogs .
FRANK: I 'm coming .
JANET: What 's happening here ? Where 's Brad ? Where 's anybody ?
BRAD: Once in a while she do n't want to call you Speaking on the telephone Once in your life she wo n't want to know you You look around The one you 've found She is gone .
JANET: I 'm engaged to Brad just the same as Betty Monroe was to Ralph Hapschatt . But Frank 's kisses overwhelmed me with an ecstacy I 've never dreamt of before . Hot , burning kisses .
BRAD: And that 's all the time that it takes For a heart to turn to stone The sweeter the wine The harder to make the break You hear something about someone You 'd thought you 'd known .
JANET: I could see Brad 's face before me and my mind screamed No ! But my lips were hungry - too hungry .
BRAD: So baby do n't cry like there 's no tomorrow After the night there 's a brand new day . And there 'll be no pain And no more sorrow . So wash your face And phone my place It 'll be O.K .
JANET: I wanted to be loved completely . My body throbbed excitedly . Oh Brad , Brad my darling , how could I have done this to you ?
BRAD: And that 's all the time that it takes For a heart to beat again . So give me a sign That a lover makes You look around The one you 've found Is back again .
JANET: If only we had n't made this journey . If only the car had n't broken down .
NARRATOR: `` If '' and `` Only '' , two small words . Words which kept repeating themselves again and again in Janet 's thoughts . But it was too late to go back now . It was as if she were iding a giant tidal wave . It would be folly to fight against it . Her only chance would e to ride it out - adapt - and perhaps also to survive .
JANET: Yes . There you see it 's instinctive . This room is your womb . You returned here for one thing - security . JANET crosses to the TV monitor .
JANET: Ahhh ! ROCKY smiles helplessly .
NARRATOR: `` Emotion '' . Mental agitation - an excited state of . It is also an irrational and powerful maste and from what Janet had witnessed on the monitor , there seemed to be little doubt that she was indeed its slave .
JANET: I was feeling done in Could n't win I 'd only ever kissed before
COLUMBIA: You mean she only ever kissed ?
JANET: I thought there 's no use getting Into heavy petting . She rips off another piece of her petticoat . It only leads to trouble And seat wetting .
COLUMBIA: Touch-a touch-a touch-a , touch me .
MAGENTA: I wan na be dirty .
MAGENTA: Creature of the night .
JANET: Oh , touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me . I wan na be dirty . Thrill me chill me , fulfil me - oh - Creature of the night . Creature of the ni-i-ight .
ROCKY: Creature of the night .
BRAD: Creature of the night .
FRANK: Creature of the night .
COLUMBIA: Creature of the night .
RIFF RAFF: Creature of the night .
MAGENTA: Creature of the night .
ROCKY: Creature of the night .
JANET: Creature of the night . Oh .
RIFF RAFF: Aaaargh ! Mercy .
FRANK: How did it happen ? I understood you were to be watching .
RIFF RAFF: I was only away for a minute Master .
FRANK: Well , see if you can find him on the monitor .
RIFF RAFF: Master , we have a visitor .
BRAD: Great scott - Scotty - Dr Everett Scott .
RIFF RAFF: You know this earth - this person .
BRAD: I most certainly do . He happens to e an old friend of mine .
FRANK: I see . So this was n't simply a chance meeting . You came here with a purpose .
BRAD: I told you , my car broke down .
BRAD: I was telling the truth .
FRANK: I know what you told me , Brad . But this Dr Everett Scott . His name is not unknown to me .
BRAD: He was a Science Teacher at Denton High .
FRANK: And now he works for your Government , does n't he , Brad ? He 's attached to the Bureau of Investigation of that which you call U.F.O 's . Is n't he , Brad ?
BRAD: He might be . I do n't know .
FRANK: Hmmmm . He 'll be in the Zen Room .
FRANK: Well , let 's ask him .
BRAD: Dr. Scott ! DR EVERETT SCOTT is even more amazed .
DR SCOTT: Brad ! What are you doing here ? FRANK releases the electro magnet . The wheelchair hits the floor .
FRANK: Do n't play games , Dr Scott . You know very well what Brad Majors 's doing here . It was part of your plan was it not that he , and his female , should check the layout for you . Well , unfortunately for you all there 's to be a change of plans . I 'm sure you 're adaptable , Dr Scott . I know Brad is . BRAD looks embarrassed and humiliated .
DR SCOTT: I can assure you that Brad 's presence comes as a complete surprise to me . I came to find Eddie .
BRAD: Eddie ? I 've seen him . He 's FRANK cuts in quickly .
FRANK: Eddie ? What do you know of Eddie , Dr Scott ?
DR SCOTT: I happen to know a great deal about a lot of things . You see Eddie happens to be my nephew .
BRAD: Dr Scott .
DR SCOTT: Janet !
JANET: Dr Scott !
BRAD: Janet !
FRANK: Rocky !
MAGENTA: Master , dinner is prepared . FRANK & RIFF RAFF exchange a look .
FRANK: Excellent . Doctor Scott you can sample the speciality of the house - roast loin of pork .
NARRATOR: Food has always played a vital role in life 's rituals . The breaking of ead - the last meal of the condemned man - and now this meal . Howeve informal it might appear you can be sure there was to be very little 'bonhomie ' .
FRANK: A toast to absent friends .
ALL: Absent friends .
DR. SCOTT: We came here to discuss Eddie .
COLUMBIA: Eddie ! FRANK It 's a rather tender subject . Another slice anyone . Everybody looks at their food carefully . COLUMBIA rises .
FRANK: Go on , Dr. Scott - or should I say doctor von Scott .
BRAD: What exactly are you implying ? FRANK threatens him with the knife .
DR. SCOTT: That 's alright Brad .
BRAD: But Doctor Scott DR. SCOTT silences BRAD with a gesture .
DR. SCOTT: From the day he was born , he was trouble . He was the thorn In his mutter 's side . She tried in vain .
NARRATOR: But he never caused he Nothing but shame .
DR. SCOTT: He left home the day she died . From the day she was gone All he wanted
ALL: When Eddie said He did n't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid . But when he threatened your life With a switch blade knife
FRANK: What a guy
JANET: Makes you cry
DR. SCOTT: Und I did .
COLUMBIA: Everybody shoved him , I very nearly loved him . I said , hey listen to me , Stay sane inside insanity . But he locked the doo And threw away the key . She collapses in tears .
DR. SCOTT: Making him warn , me , In a note DR. SCOTT produces the note . Which reads .
ALL: What 's it say , What 's it say ?
DR. SCOTT: Und when he threatened your life With a switch blade knife
FRANK: What guy
JANET: Makes you cry
ALL: Eddie !
FRANK: What a guy
ALL: Woe woe woe
JANET: Makes you cry
ALL: Hey hey hey
DR. SCOTT: Und I did
ALL: EDDIE !
FRANK: Oh Rocky , how could you ! JANET runs out , FRANK in pursuit . ROCKY smiles wanly .
FRANK: I 've laid the seed It should be all you need .
JANET: My feet - I can ' move my feet .
DR. SCOTT: My wheels - My God , I ca n't move my wheels .
BRAD: It 's as if we were glued to the spot .
FRANK: You are - so quake with fear , you tiny fools .
JANET: We 're trapped . FRANK It 's something you 'll Get used to . A mental mind fuck Can be nice .
DR. SCOTT: You wo n't find earth people quite the easy mark you imagine . This sonic transducer - it is , I suppose , some kind of audio-vibratory , physiomolecular transport device .
BRAD: You mean
DR. SCOTT: Yes Brad . It 's something we ourselves have been working on . But it seems our friend here has found a way of perfecting it . A device which is capable of breaking down solid matter and then projecting it through space , and - who knows - perhaps even time itself !
JANET: You mean he 's gon na send us to another planet ? FRANK leaps off the tank to the floor .
FRANK: Planet . Schmanet . Janet .
NARRATOR: Then she cries out -
JANET: Sto-o-o-o-o-op .
BRAD: You 're a hot dog But you 'd better not Try to hurt her , Frank Furter . FRANK signals to MAGENTA . BCS MAGENTA 's hand on the transducer switch . BRAD is turned into a statute .
DR. SCOTT: You 're a hot dog But you 'd better not Try to hurt her , Frank Furter .
JANET: You 're a hot dog FRANK signals . C.S . SWITCH . JANET is stone .
COLUMBIA: My God ! I ca n't take any more of this - first you spurn me for Eddie , then you cast him off like an old overcoat fo Rocky . You chew people up and then spit them out - I loved you , do you hear me - I LOVED YOU - And what did it get me - I 'll tell you - a big nothing . You 're like a sponge . You take , take , take , take ! You drain others of thei love and emotions . Well , I 've had enough . You 've got to choose between me and Rocky - so named because of the rocks in his head . FRANK throws a switch , she turns to stone .
FRANK: It 's not easy having a good time . He crosses over to RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA Even smiling makes my face ache . RIFF RAFF and MAGENTA nod sympathetically . He lies on the operating table . They massage .
MAGENTA: When will we return to Transylvania ? I grow weary of this world .
FRANK: Magenta , I am indeed grateful to both you and your brother RIff Raff - you have oth served me well - loyalty such as yours must be rewarded and you will discover when the mood takes me I can e quite generous .
MAGENTA: I ask for nothing , Master . FRANK leaps up from the table .
FRANK: And you shall receive it - in abundance . Come . We are ready for the floor show . Our guests will be growing restless . The lift moves downwards .
NARRATOR: And so , by some extraordinary coincidence - fate it seems had decided that Brad and Janet should keep that appointment with their friend Dr Everett Scott . But it was to be in a situation which none of them could have possibly foreseen . And just a few hours after announcing their engagement , Brad and Janet had both tasted forbidden fruit . This in itself was proof that thei host was a man of little morals - and some persuasion . What further indignities were they to be subjected to ? And what of the sonic transducer and floor show that had een spoken of ? What indeed ? From what had gone before , it was clear that this was to be no picnic .
COLUMBIA: It was great when it all began I was a regular Frank fan . But it was over when he had the plan To start working on a muscle-man . Now the only thing that gives me hope Is my love of a certain dope Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain .
ROCKY: I 'm just seven hours old Truly beautiful to behold And somebody should be told My libido has n't been controlled Now the only thing I 've come to trust Is an orgasmicrush of lust Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain . BRAD animated by FRANK
BRAD: It 's beyond me Help me Mommy I 'll be good you 'll see Take this dream away What 's this , let 's see I feel sexy What 's come over me Here it comes again .
JANET: I feel released Bad times deceased My confidence increased Reality is here The game has been disbanded My mind has been expanded It 's a gas that Frankie 's landed His lust is so sincere .
FRANK: What ever happened to Fay Wray That delicate satin-draped frame As it clung to her thigh How I started to cry For I wanted to be dressed just the same .
FRANK: Give yourself over to absolutely pleasure Swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh Erotic nightmares Beyond any measure And sensual daydreams To treasure forever . FRANK enters the pool . Ca n't you just see it . Ca n't you just see it . They begin to immerse themselves in the pool . 161A Do n't dream it . Be it .
ALL: Do n't dream it . Be it . DR SCOTT animates belatedly . He observes the orgy occurring in the pool .
DR. SCOTT: Ach , we 've got to get out of this trap efore this decadence saps our wills . I 've got to be strong and try to hang on . Or else my mind , may well snap .
BRAD: It 's beyond me Help me Mo-ommy . He is pulled back into the pool . A thrilled JANET now emerges .
JANET: God bless Lilly Saint Cyr .
FRANK: My my my my I 'm a wild and an untamed thing . I 'm a bee with a deadly sting . Get a hit and your mind goes ping . Your heart 'll thump and your blood will sing . So let the party and the sounds rock on . Gon na shake it till the life has gone . Rose tint my world Keep me safe from my trouble and pain . FRANK dives into the pool .
ALL: I 'm a wild and an untamed thing I 'm a bee with a deadly sting . Get a hit and your mind goes ping Your heart 'll thump and your blood will sing .
RIFF RAFF: Frank N. Furte It 's all ove Your mission is a failure . FRANK looks stunned . Your life style 's too extreme . FRANK is guilt-stricken . I 'm your new Commander . You are now my prisoner .
FRANK: Wait ! I can explain .
GUESTS: Goodbye
FRANK: Was all I had to say
GUESTS: Now I
FRANK: Want to come again and stay
GUESTS: Oh my , my ,
FRANK: Smile and that will mean I may
GUESTS: Feeling
FRANK: Like I 'm outside in the rain
GUESTS: Wheeling
FRANK: Free to try and find a game
GUESTS: Dealing
FRANK: Cards for sorrow , Cards for pain . DR SCOTT switches on wind machine . I 've seen blue skies Through the tears in my eyes And I realise I 'm going home I 'm going home . I 'm going home .
MAGENTA: How sentimental . RIFF RAFF moves slowly to the stage .
RIFF RAFF: And also presumptuous of you . You see when I said `` we '' were to return to Transylvania , I referred only to Magenta and myself . FRANK looks appalled .
DR SCOTT: Great Heavens , that 's a laser .
RIFF RAFF: Yes , Dr Scott . A laser capable of emitting a beam of pure anti-matter .
BRAD: You mean you 're going to kill him ? What 's his crime ?
DR SCOTT: You saw what became of Eddie . Society must be protected .
RIFF RAFF: Exactly , Dr Scott . Now Frank N. Furter , your time has come . Say goodbye to all this and hello to oblivion . FRANK raises himself to his full height .
FRANK: Do your worse - inferior one .
BRAD: Good God .
RIFF RAFF: Yes .
JANET: You 've killed them .
MAGENTA: I thought you liked them . They liked you .
RIFF RAFF: They did n't like me . They never liked me .
DR SCOTT: You did right .
RIFF RAFF: A decision had to be made .
DR SCOTT: You 're OK by me .
RIFF RAFF: Dr Scott I 'm sorry about your nephew .
DR SCOTT: Yes , well perhaps it was for the best .
RIFF RAFF: You must leave now Dr Scott while it 's still possible . We are about to beam the entire house back to the planet of transexual in the galaxy of Transylvania . Go now .
RIFF RAFF: Our noble mission is almost completed my most beautiful sister , soon we will return to the moon-drenched shores of ou `` androgenous '' planet .
MAGENTA: Ah - sweet Transexual - land of night - to sing and dance once more to your dark efrains . To take that step to the right
RIFF RAFF: But it 's the pelvic thrust that really drives you insane .
MAGENTA: And our World will do the Time Warp again .
BRAD: I 've done a lot God knows I 've tried To find the truth I 've even lied But all I know is down inside . DR SCOTT drags himself to his knees .
JANET: And super heroes Come to feast To taste the flesh Not yet deceased And al I know Is still the beast
TRIO: Is feeding .
NARRATOR: And crawling on the planet 's face Some insects called the human race Lost in time , and lost in space And meaning . He turns and goes to the door of the study . He switches off the light .
VOICES OFF: Meaning . He leaves the study , shutting the door .
VOICE OVER: Science Fiction - double-feature Frank has built and lost his creature Darkness has conquered Brad and Janet The servants gone to a distant planet Oh - at the late night double-feature Picture Show - I want to go - Ohh -
GREGORY: A dog of the house of Capulet moves me !
SAMPSON: That shows thee a weak slave . Fo the weakest goes to the wall .
GREGORY: 'T is true ; and therefore women , eing the weaker vessels , are eve thrust to the wall . Therefore , I will push Capulet 's men from the wall , and thrust his maids to the wall .
BENVOLIO: The quarrel is between our masters
GREGORY: and us their men .
SAMPSON: I will show myself a tyrant . When I have fought with the men I will e civil with the maids , I will cut off their heads .
GREGORY: The heads of the maids ?
SAMPSON: Ay , the heads of the maids , o their maiden heads , take it in what sense thou wilt .
GREGORY: They must take it in sense that feel it .
SINGING: I am a pretty piece of flesh ! I am a pretty piece of flesh ! Me , they shall feel while I am able to stand ; I am a pretty piece of flesh !
SAMPSON: Here comes of the House of Capulet .
GREGORY: Quarrel I will back thee .
SAMPSON: Let us take the law of our sides . Let them begin .
ABRA: Do you bite your thumb at us , sir ?
SAMPSON: I do bite my thumb , sir .
ABRA: Do you bite you thumb at us , sir ?
SAMPSON: Is the law on our side if I say `` Ay '' ?
GREGORY: No .
SAMPSON: No , sir , I do not bite my thumb at you , sir - but I do bite my thumb , sir !
GREGORY: Do you quarrel , sir ?
ABRA: Quarrel sir , no sir .
SAMPSON: But if you do , sir , I am for you . I serve as good a man as you .
ABRA: No better ?
SAMPSON: Well sir
GREGORY: Here comes our kinsman . Say better !
BENVOLIO: Part , fools ! You know not what you do !
TYBALT: What , art thou drawn amoung these heartless hinds ? Turn thee Benvolio .
BENVOLIO: I do but keep the peace .
TYBALT: Peace ? I hate the word As I hate hell , all Montagues , and
CAPULET: Give me my long sword !
MONTAGUE: What noise is this !
CAROLINE: Thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe !
MONTAGUE: Hold me not , let me go !
TYBALT: Look upon thy death , Benvolio .
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Rebellious subjects , enemies to peace , Throw your mistempered weapons to the ground .
VOICE OVER: Two households , both alike in dignity . In fair Verona , where we lay ou
SCENE: From ancient grudge break to new mutiny , Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean . From forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star crossed lovers take their life . Whose misadventured piteous
OVERTHROWS: Doth with their death bury thei parents strife .
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Three civil brawls , bred of an airy
WORD: By thee , old Capulet , and Montague , Have thrice disturbed the quiet of our streets .
LAWYER: My noble Prince I can
CAPTAIN PRINCE: If ever you disturb our streets again , Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace .
CAROLINE: O where is Romeo ? Saw you him today ? Right glad I am he was not at this fray .
BENVOLIO: Madam , underneath The Grove of
SYCAMORE: So early walking did I see your son .
MONTAGUE: Many a morning hath he there been
SEEN: With tears augmenting the fresh morning 's dew .
CAROLINE: Away from light steals home my heavy son And private in his chamber pens himself , Shuts up his windows , locks fai daylight out And makes himself an artificial night .
MONTAGUE: Westward from this city side .
BENVOLIO: So please you step aside . I 'll know his grievance or be much denied .
MONTAGUE: Come Madam . Let 's away .
BENVOLIO: Good morrow , cousin .
ROMEO: Is the day so young ?
BENVOLIO: But new struck , Coz .
ROMEO: Ay me ! Sad hours seem long .
GUILTY: It was .
BENVOLIO: What sadness lengthens Romeo 's hours ?
ROMEO: Not having that which having makes them short .
BENVOLIO: In love ?
ROMEO: Out .
BENVOLIO: Of love ?
ROMEO: Out of her favor where I am in love .
BENVOLIO: Alas that love , so gentle in his view , Should be so tyrannical and rough in proof !
ROMEO: Alas that love , whose view
ANGRILY: Yet tell me not , for I have heard it all . Here 's much to do with hate , but more with love .
BENVOLIO: No , coz , I rather weep .
ROMEO: Farewell , my coz .
BENVOLIO: Tell me in sadness , who is it that you love .
ROMEO: In sadness , cousin , I do lovea woman .
BENVOLIO: I aimed so near when I supposed you loved .
ROMEO: A right good marksman ; and she 's fair I love .
BENVOLIO: Rosaline ! A right fair mark , fair coz , is soonest hit .
ROMEO: She 'll not be hit with Cupid 's arrow . She hath Dian 's wit , And in strong proof of chastity lives well armed .
BENVOLIO: Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste ?
ROMEO: She hath ; and in that sparing makes huge waste .
BENVOLIO: Be ruled by me ; forget to think of her .
ROMEO: O , teach me how I should forget to think !
BENVOLIO: By giving liberty unto thine eyes . Examine other beauties .
ROMEO: Farewell . Thou canst not teach me to forget .
BENVOLIO: I 'll pay that doctrine , or else die in debt .
CAPULET: But Montague is bound as well as I , In penalty alike ;
DAVE: Of honorable reckoning are you oth , And pity 't is you lived at odds so long .
CAPULET: But saying o'er what I have said
BEFORE;: My child is yet a stranger in the
WORLD;: Let two more summers wither in their pride , Ere we may think her ripe to be a ide .
DAVE: Younger than she are happy mothers made .
CAPULET: And too soon marred are those so early made . Earth hath swallowed all my hopes ut she ; She is the hopeful lady of my earth .
CHOICE: Lies my consent and fair according voice . This night I hold an old Accustomed feast .
BENVOLIO: Take thou some new infection to thy eye .
ROMEO: Not mad , but bound more than a madman is ; Shut up in prison , kept without my food ,
SUSAN: Now I 'll tell you without asking . The great Rich Capulet , holds an old accustomed feast ;
RICH: A fair Assembly .
SUSAN: I Pray you sir can you read ?
RICH: Signor Placentio and his wife and daughters , Signor Martino , the Lady Widow Of Utruvio and her lovely nieces , Rosaline and Livia
BENVOLIO: At this same ancient feast of
CAPULET'S: Sups the fair Rosaline ; whom thou so loves , With all the admired beauties of Verona . Go thither , and with unattained eye Compare her face with some that I shall show , And I will make thee think thy swan a crow .
ROMEO: One fairer than my love ?
SUSAN: If you be not of the house of Montagues , Come and crush a cup of wine !
RICH: Rest you merry !
ROMEO: I 'll go along , no such sight to be shown . But to rejoice in splendour of mine own .
NURSE: I bade her come . God forbid ! Where 's this girl ? Juliet !
COOLLY: Madam , I am here . What is you will .
GLORIA: Nurse , give leave awhile , we must talk in secret .
NURSE: Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed .
GLORIA: By my count , I was your mother much upon these years That you are now a maid .
NURSE: A man , young lady ! Lady , such a
MAN: As all the world - why , he 's a man of wax .
GLORIA: Verona 's summer hath not such a flower .
NURSE: Nay , he 's a flower ; in faith , a very flower .
GLORIA: This night you shall behold him at our feast ; Read o'er the volume of young Paris ' face And find delight writ there with eauty 's pen . This precious book of love , this unbound lover , To beautify him only lacks a cover . So shall you share all that he doth possess , By having him , making yourself no less .
JULIET: I 'll look to like , if looking liking move , But no more deep will I endart mine eye , Than your consent gives strength to make it fly .
PETER: Madam . The guests are come .
GLORIA: We follow thee .
NURSE: Go girl , seek happy nights to happy days .
MERCUTIO: Strike drum !
ROMEO: I am not for this ambling . Being but heavy , I will bear the light .
MERCUTIO: Nay , gentle Romeo , we must have you dance .
ROMEO: Not I , believe me . You have dancing shoes With nimble soles . I have a soul of lead .
MERCUTIO: Too great oppression for a tende thing .
ROMEO: Is love a tender thing ? It is too ough , too rude , too boisterous , and it pricks like thorn .
MERCUTIO: If love be rough with you , be rough with love .
ROMEO: Under love 's heavy burden do I sink !
BENVOLIO: Every man betake him to his legs !
MERCUTIO: Come , we burn daylight , ho !
ROMEO: But 't is no wit to go .
MERCUTIO: Why , may one ask ?
ROMEO: I dreamt a dream tonight .
MERCUTIO: And so did I .
ROMEO: Well , what was yours ?
MERCUTIO: That dreamers often lie .
ROMEO: In bed asleep , while they do dream things true .
MERCUTIO: O , then I see Queen Mab hath been with you . She is the fairies ' midwife , and she comes In shape no bigger than an agate
STONE: On the forefinger of an alderman , Drawn with a team of little atomies Over men 's noses as they lie asleep .
ROMEO: Peace , peace , Mercutio , peace . Thou talkest of nothing .
MERCUTIO: True , I talk of dreams ; Which are the children of an idle ain , Begot of nothing but vain fantasy . Which is as thin of substance as the ai And more inconstant than the wind , who woos Even now the frozen bosom of the
NORTH: And , being angered , puffs away from
THENCE: Turning his attention to the dew- dropping south .
BENVOLIO: This wind you talk of blows us from
ROMEO: I fear , too early , for my mind
MISGIVES: Some consequence yet hanging in the
STARS: Shall bitterly begin his fearful
DATE: With this night 's revels , and expire the term Of a despised life closed in my east , By some vile forfeit of untimely death .
COURSE: Direct my sail !
MERCUTIO: Everyman betake him to his legs !
CAPULET: Ah , I have seen the day that I
COULD: Tell a whispering tale in a fai ladies ear . Such as would please .
NURSE: Juliet , your mother calls .
DAVE: Will you now deny to dance ?
GLORIA: A man , young lady , such a man .
TYBALT: What , dares the slave come hithe to fleer and scorn at our solemnity ? Now by the stock and honor of my
KIN: To strike him dead I hold it not a sin .
CAPULET: Why how now kinsman , wherefore storm you so ?
TYBALT: Uncle , this is that villain Romeo . A Montague , our foe .
CAPULET: Young Romeo is it ?
TYBALT: 'T is he .
CAPULET: Content thee gentle coz , let him alone . I would not for the wealth of all this town Here in my house do him disparagement . Therefore be patient ; take no note of him .
TYBALT: I 'll not endure him .
CAPULET: He shall be endured ! What , goodman boy ! I say he shall ! Go to .
ROMEO: Did my heart love till now ? Forswear it , sight . For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night .
HAND: This holy shrine , the gentle sin is this . My lips , two blushing pilgrims , eady stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss .
JULIET: Good pilgrim , you do wrong you hand too much , Which mannerly devotion shows in this . For saints have hands that pilgrim 's hands do touch , And palm to palm is holy palmers ' kiss .
ROMEO: Have not saints lips , and holy palmers too ?
JULIET: Ay , pilgrim , lips that they must use in prayer .
ROMEO: O , then , dear saint , let lips do what hands do , They pray grant thou , lest faith turn to despair .
JULIET: Saints do not move , though grant for prayer 's sake .
ROMEO: Then move not while my prayer 's effect I take .
JULIET: Then have my lips the sin that they have took .
ROMEO: Sin from my lips ? O trespass sweetly urged ! Give me my sin again .
JULIET: You kiss by th ' book .
NURSE: Madam , your mother craves a word with you .
ROMEO: Is she a Capulet ?
NURSE: His name is Romeo , and a Montague , The only son of your great enemy .
MERCUTIO: Away , begone , the sport is at its est .
ROMEO: Ay so I fear ,
JULIET: My only love , sprung from my only hate . Too early seen unknown , and known too late . Prodigious birth of love it is to me
TYBALT: I will withdraw . But this intrusion shall , Now seeming sweet , convert to itterest gall .
BOYS: `` I am a pretty piece of flesh , I am a pretty piece of flesh ''
ROMEO: Can I go forward when my heart is here ? Turn back , dull earth , and find thy centre out .
BENVOLIO: Romeo ! Cousin Romeo ! Romeo !
MERCUTIO: Nay , I 'll conjure too .
ROMEO: He jests at scars that never felt a wound .
MERCUTIO: O Romeo , that she were , O that she
WERE: An open-arse and thou a poperin pear !
ROMEO: But soft , what light through yonde window breaks ?
GRIEF: That thou her maid art far more fair than she . Be not her maid , since she is envious . Her vestal livery is but sick and green , And none but fools do wear it .
JULIET: Ay me !
WHISPERS: She speaks . O , speak again , bright angel !
JULIET: O Romeo , Romeo ! - Whyfore art thou Romeo ? Deny thy father and refuse thy name . Or , if thou wilt not , be but sworn my love , And I 'll no longer be a Capulet .
ROMEO: Shall I hear more , or shall I speak at this ?
JULIET: 'T is but thy name that is my enemy . Thou are thyself , though not a Montague . What 's Montague ? It is not hand nor foot Nor arm nor face nor any other part Belonging to a man . O , be some other name ! What 's in a name ? That which we call a rose By any other word would smell as sweet . So Romeo would , were he not Romeo called , Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title . Romeo , doff thy name , And for thy name , which is no part of thee , Take all myself .
ROMEO: I take thee at thy word ! Call me but love , and I 'll be new aptised . Henceforth I never will be Romeo .
JULIET: What man art thou that , thus escreened in night , So stumblest on my counsel ?
ROMEO: By a name I know not how to tell thee who I am My name , dear saint , is hateful to
MYSELF: Because it is an enemy to thee .
JULIET: Art thou not Romeo , and a Montague ?
ROMEO: Neither , fair maid , if either thee dislike .
JULIET: How cam'st thou hither , tell me , and whyfore ? The garden walls are high and hard to climb , And the place death , considering who thou art .
ROMEO: With love 's light wings did I o ' e perch these walls . For stony limits can not hold love out , And what love can do , that dares love attempt . Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me .
JULIET: If they do see thee , they will murder thee .
ROMEO: I have night 's cloak to hide me from their eyes . And but thou love me , let them find me here . My life were better ended by thei
HATE: Than death prorogued , wanting of thy love .
JULIET: Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face , Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek , For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight . Fain would I dwell on form - fain , fain deny What I have spoke . But farewell compliment ! Dost thou love me ?
ROMEO: Lady , by yonder blessed moon I vow , That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops -
JULIET: O , swear not by the moon , th ' inconstant moon , That monthly changes in her circled orb , Lest that thy love prove likewise variable .
ROMEO: What shall I swear by ?
JULIET: Do not swear at all . Or if thou wilt , swear by thy gracious self , Which is the god of my idolatry , And I 'll believe thee .
ROMEO: If my heart 's dear love -
JULIET: Well , do not swear . Although I joy in thee , I have no joy of this contract tonight . It is too rash , too unadvised , too
SUDDEN;: Too like the lightning , which doth cease to be Ere one can say 'it lightens . ' Sweet , good night . This bud of love , by summer 's ipening breath , May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet . Good night , good night . As sweet epose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my east .
ROMEO: O , wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ?
JULIET: What satisfaction canst thou have tonight ?
ROMEO: The exchange of thy love 's faithful vow for mine .
JULIET: I gave thee mind before thou didst equest it !
ROMEO: Wouldst thou withdraw it ? For what purpose love ?
JULIET: But to be frank and give it thee again .
BREATHLESSLY: Three words , dear Romeo , and good night indeed . If that thy bent of love be honourable . Thy purpose marriage , send me word tomorrow , By one that I 'll procure to come to thee , Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite , And all my fortunes at thy foot I 'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world .
JULIET: I come , anon - But if thou meanest not well , I do beseech thee
ROMEO: So thrive my soul .
JULIET: A thousand times good night !
ROMEO: A thousand times the worse , to want thy light . Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books ; But love from love , toward school with heavy looks .
JULIET: Romeo ! What o'clock tomorrow Shall I send to thee ?
ROMEO: By the hour of nine .
JULIET: I will not fail . 'T is twenty yea till then . Goodnight , goodnight ! Parting is such sweet sorrow . That I shall say goodnight till it e morrow .
ROMEO: Sleep dwell upon thine eyes , peace in thy breast , Would I were sleep and peace , so sweet to rest .
LIES: In plants , herbs , stones , and thei true qualities .
FLOWER: Poison hath residence , and medicine power .
FATHER LAURENCE: Two such opposed kings encamp them
STILL: In man as well as herbs grace and ude will ; And where the worser is predominant , Full soon the canker death eats up that plant .
ROMEO: Good morrow , father !
FATHER LAURENCE: Benedicite ! What early tongue so sweet saluteth me ?
HEAD: So soon to bid good morrow to thy ed . Or if not so , then here I hit it ight - Our Romeo hath not been in bed tonight .
ROMEO: The last is true . The sweeter rest was mine .
FATHER LAURENCE: God pardon sin ! Wast thou with Rosaline ?
ROMEO: With Rosaline , my ghostly father ? No . I have forgot that name and that name 's woe .
FATHER LAURENCE: That 's my good son ! But where hast thou been then ?
ROMEO: I have been feasting with mine enemy , Where on a sudden one hath wounded me . That 's by me wounded . Both ou
REMEDIES: Within they help and holy physic lies .
FATHER LAURENCE: Be plain , good son , and homely in thy drift . Riddling confession finds but iddling shrift .
ROMEO: Then plainly know my heart 's dea love is set , On the fair daughter of rich Capulet . We met , we wooed , and made exchange of vow , I 'll tell thee as we pass . But this I pray , That thou consent to marry us today .
ALTAR BOYS: Good morrow , Romeo .
FATHER LAURENCE: Holy Saint Francis ! What a change is here ! Is Rosaline , that thou didst love so dear , So soon foresaken ? Young men 's love then lies Not truly in their hearts , but in their eyes .
ROMEO: Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline .
FATHER LAURENCE: For doting , not for loving , pupil mine .
ROMEO: I pray thee chide me not . Her I love now Doth grace for grace and love fo love allow . The other did not so .
FATHER LAURENCE: O , she knew well Thy love did read by rote , that could not spell .
CHOIR: How can you just leave me standing Alone in a world so cold , Maybe I 'm just too demanding , Maybe I 'm just like my father , too old , Maybe you 're just like my mother , She 's never satisfied . Why do we scream at each other ? This is what it sounds like when doves cry
FATHER LAURENCE: But come , young waverer , come , go with me . In one respect I 'll thy assistant e. For this alliance may so happy
PROVE: To turn your households ' rancor to pure love .
ROMEO: O , let us hence ! I stand on sudden haste .
FATHER LAURENCE: Wisely and slow . They stumble that un fast .
MERCUTIO: Where the devil should this Romeo e ? Came he not home tonight ?
BENVOLIO: Not to his father 's . I spoke with his man .
MERCUTIO: Why , that same pale hard-hearted wench , that Rosaline , Torments him so that he will sure un mad .
BENVOLIO: Tybalt hath sent a letter to his father 's house .
MERCUTIO: A challenge , on my life .
BENVOLIO: Romeo will answer it ?
MERCUTIO: Any man that can write may answer a letter .
BENVOLIO: Nay , he will answer the letter 's master , how he dares , being dared .
MERCUTIO: Alas , poor Romeo , he is already dead ! Stabbed with a white wench 's black eye ,
BENVOLIO: Why , what is Tybalt ?
MERCUTIO: More than Prince of Cats , I can tell you . O , he 's the courageous captain of compliments . The very butcher of a silk button .
BENVOLIO: Here comes Romeo , here comes Romeo !
MERCUTIO: Signor Romeo , Bonjour . There 's a French salutation to your French slop . You gave us the counterfeit fairly last night .
ROMEO: Good morrow to you both . What counterfeit did I give you ?
MERCUTIO: The slip , sir , the slip . Can you not conceive ?
ROMEO: Pardon , good Mercutio . My business was great , and in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy .
SARCASTICALLY: A most courteous exposition .
ROMEO: Nay I am the very pink of courtesy .
CAMPLY: Pink for flower ?
ROMEO: I will bite thee on the ear fo that jest !
MERCUTIO: Come between us , good Benvolio ! My wits faint .
ROMEO: Switch and spurs , switch and spurs , or I 'll cry a match .
MERCUTIO: Why , is not this better now than groaning for love ?
QUIETLY: What thou art , by art as well as by nature .
ROMEO: Here 's goodly gear .
BEMUSED: God ye good e'en fair gentlewoman .
NURSE: I desire some confidence with you .
MERCUTIO: A bawd , a bawd , a bawd ! So ho !
BENVOLIO: She will endite him to some supper ?
MERCUTIO: Romeo , will you come to you father 's ? We 'll to dinner thither .
ROMEO: I will follow you .
MERCUTIO: Farewell , ancient lady . Farewell .
NURSE: If ye should lead her in a fool 's paradise , as they say , it were a very gross kind of behavior , as they say . For the gentlewoman is young ; and therefore , if you should deal double with her , truly it were an ill thing and very weak dealing .
ROMEO: Bid her to come to confession this afternoon , And there she shall at Fria Laurence 's cell Be shrived and married .
JULIET: O God she comes !
NURSE: I am aweary , give me leave awhile . Fie , how my bones ache . What a jaunce have I .
JULIET: I would thou hadst my bones and I thy news .
GOOD: Nurse , speak .
NURSE: Jesu , what haste . Can you not stay awhile ? Can you not see I am out of breath ?
JULIET: How art thou out of breath when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of eath ! Is the news good or bad ? Answer to that .
NURSE: Well , you have made a simple choice . You know not how to choose a man . Romeo ? No , not he . Though his face be better than any man 's , yet his leg excels all men 's and for a hand and a foot and a ody , though they be not to be talked on , yet they are past compare . He 's not the flower of courtesy , ut I 'll warrant him as gentle as a lamb . Go thy ways , wench , serve God . What , have you dined at home ?
JULIET: No , no . But all this I did know efore . What says he of ou marriage ? What of that
NURSE: Lord how my head aches ! What a head have I My back -
ABOUT: To catch my death with jauncing up and down .
JULIET: I'faith I am sorry that thou art not well . Sweet , sweet , sweet Nurse , tell me , what says my love ?
NURSE: Your love says like an honest gentleman , And a courteous , and a kind , and a handsome , And I warrant a virtuous - Where is your mother ?
JULIET: Where is my mother ? How oddly thou epliest ! 'Your love says , like an honest gentleman , `` Where is your mother '' ' !
NURSE: O God 's lady dear are you so hot ? Henceforth do your messages yourself .
JULIET: Here 's such a coil ! COME WHAT SAYS
NURSE: Have you got leave to go to confession today ?
JULIET: I have .
NURSE: Then hie you hence to Fathe Laurence cell . There stays a husband to make you a wife !
FATHER LAURENCE: These violent delights have violent ends !
JULIET: Good afternoon to my ghostly confessor .
DRYLY: Romeo shall thank thee , daughter , for us both .
BENVOLIO: I pray thee , good Mercutio , let 's etire . The day is hot ,
MERCUTIO: Thou art like one of these fellows that , when he enters the confines of a tavern , claps me his sword upon the table and says 'God send me no need of thee ! ' and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer , when indeed there is no need .
BENVOLIO: By my head , here comes the Capulets .
MERCUTIO: By my heel , I care not .
TYBALT: Gentlemen , good day . A word with one of you .
MERCUTIO: And but one word with one of us ? Couple it with something . Make it a word and a
FURIOUS: You shall find me apt enough to that , sir , And you will give me occasion .
MERCUTIO: ( a breathy , coquettish
VOICE: Could you not take some occasion without giving ?
TYBALT: Mercutio , thou consortest with Romeo .
MERCUTIO: Consort ? What , dost thou make us minstrels ? And thou make minstrels of us look to hear nothing but discords . Here 's my fiddlestick .
BENVOLIO: Either withdraw unto some private place . Or reason coldly of your grievances . Here all eyes gaze on us .
MERCUTIO: Men 's eyes were made to look , and let them gaze . I will not budge for no man 's pleasure , I .
TYBALT: Well sir , here comes my man .
AFFORD: No better term than this
ROMEO: Tybalt , the reason that I have to love thee Doth much excuse the appertaining
RAGE: To such a greeting villain am I none , Therefore farewell . I see thou knowest me not .
TYBALT: Boy , this shall not excuse the
INJURIES: That thou hast done me !
YELLING: Turn and draw .
ROMEO: I never injured thee , And so , good Capulet , which name I
TENDER: As dearly as mine own
MERCUTIO: O calm , dishonourable , vile submission !
TYBALT: What wouldst thou have with me ?
AVOIDING: Good King of Cats , nothing but one of your nine lives .
TYBALT: I am for you .
ROMEO: Forbear this outrage , good Mercutio !
ABRA: Away Tybalt !
BENVOLIO: Art thou hurt ?
MERCUTIO: Ay , ay , a scratch .
ROMEO: Courage , man . The hurt can not be much .
MERCUTIO: 'Twill serve . Ask for me tomorrow and you shall find me a grave man .
ROMEO: I thought all for the best .
MERCUTIO: A plague o ' both your houses ! They have made worms ' meat of me .
BENVOLIO: Mercutio is dead !
ROMEO: Oh sweet Juliet , Thy beauty hath made me effeminate And in my temper softened valor 's steel !
TYBALT: Thou , wretched boy , shalt with him hence .
ROMEO: Either thou or I , or both , must go with him .
COP: Put up thy weapon .
ROMEO: O , I am fortune 's fool !
BALTHASAR: Romeo , away be gone ! Stand not amazed !
GLORIA: Tybalt !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Where are the vile beginners of this fray ?
BENVOLIO: O noble Prince I can discover all The unlucky manage of this fatal awl .
GLORIA: Prince as thou art true , For blood of ours shed blood of Montague !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Benvolio , who began this bloody fray ?
BENVOLIO: There lies the man , slain by young Romeo , That slew thy kinsman brave Mercutio .
GLORIA: He speaks not true ! Affection makes him false !
BENVOLIO: Romeo , that spoke him fair , could not take Truce with the unruly spleen of
TYBALT: Deaf to peace !
GLORIA: He is a kinsman to the Montague ! I beg for justice which thou Prince must give . Romeo slew Tybalt , Romeo must not live !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Romeo slew him , he slew Mercutio . Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ?
MONTAGUE: Not Romeo , Prince , he was Mercutio 's friend ; His fault concludes but what the law should end , The life of Tybalt .
CAPTAIN PRINCE: And for that offence Immediately we do exile him .
MONTAGUE: Noble Prince ?
CAPTAIN PRINCE: I will be deaf to pleading and
EXCUSES;: Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses . Therefore use none .
JULIET: Come gentle night , coming loving lack browed night , Give me my Romeo . And when I shall die , Take him and cut him out in little stars , And he will make the face of heaven so fine That all the world will be in love with night , And pay no worship to the garish sun . O , I have bought the mansion of a
LOVE: But not possessed it , and though I am sold , Not yet enjoyed . So tedious is this day As is the night before some festival To an impatient child that hath new
ROBES: And may not wear them .
JULIET: Oh God ! Did Romeo 's hand shed Tybalt 's blood ?
NURSE: It did , it did ! Alas the day , it did !
JULIET: Oh serpent heart , hid with a flowering face . Was ever book containing such vile
MATTER: So fairly bound ? O , that deceit should dwell In such a gorgeous palace !
NURSE: There 's no trust , No faith , no honesty in men . All perjured , All forsworn , all naught , all dissemblers . Shame come to Romeo .
JULIET: Blistered be thy tongue For such a wish ! He was not born to shame . Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit .
NURSE: Will you speak well of him that killed your cousin ?
JULIET: Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband ? Ah , poor my lord , what tongue shall smooth thy name When I , thy three-hours wife have mangled it ? But whyfore , villain , didst thou kill my cousin ? That villain cousin would have killed my husband . All this is comfort , wherefore weep I then ? Some word there was worser than Tybalt 's death I would forget it fain - exiled . Tybalt is dead , and Romeo exiled . To speak that word is father , mother , Tybalt , Romeo , Juliet , all slain , All dead .
NURSE: Hie to your chamber . I 'll find
ROMEO: To comfort you . I know well where he is . Hark ye , your Romeo will be here at night .
JULIET: O find him , give this ring to my true knight , And bid him come to take his last farewell .
ROMEO: Nurse !
NURSE: Ah sir ! Ah sir ! Death 's the end of all .
ROMEO: Speakest thou of Juliet ? Where is she ? And how doth she ? And what says My concealed lady to our cancelled love ?
NURSE: O , she says nothing , sir , but weeps and weeps , And then on Romeo cries , and then falls down again .
ROMEO: As if that name , Shot from the deadly level of a gun , Did murder her , as that name 's cursed hand murdered her kinsman !
FATHER LAURENCE: I thought thy disposition bette tempered ! Thy Juliet is alive , There art thou happy . The law that threatened death ecomes thy friend And turns it to exile . There art thou happy . A pack of blessings light upon thy ack .
NURSE: Here sir , a ring my lady bid me give you .
ROMEO: How well my comfort is revived by this .
FATHER LAURENCE: Go , get thee to thy love , as was decreed . Ascend her chamber . Hence and comfort her . But look thou stay not till the Watch be set , For then thou canst not pass to Mantua where thou shalt live till we can find a time To blaze your marriage , reconcile your friends , Beg pardon of the Prince and call thee back , With twenty hundred thousand times more joy Than thou wentst forth in lamentation .
DAY: Sojourn in Mantua . Give me thy hand .
ROMEO: Farewell .
GLORIA: She 'll not come down tonight .
DAVE: These times of woe afford no times to woo .
CAPULET: Look you , she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly .
JOINING: And so did I .
CAPULET: Well , we were born to die .
GLORIA: I 'll know her mind early tomorrow . Tonight she 's mewed up to he heaviness .
CAPULET: We 'll keep no great ado - a friend or two . For , hark you , Tybalt being slain so late , It may be thought we held him carelessly , Being our kinsman if we revel much - But soft what day is this ?
DAVE: Monday my lord .
CAPULET: Well Wednesday is too soon - what say you to Thursday ?
DAVE: My lord I
CAPULET: I will make a desperate tender of my child 's love . I think she will be ruled in all espects by me ; Nay , more , I doubt it not !
DAVE: My lord I
CAPULET: A Thursday let it be then !
MARRIED: To this noble sir !
JULIET: Wilt thou be gone ? It is not yet near day .
ROMEO: I must be gone and live , or stay and die .
JULIET: Yond light is not daylight ,
EXHALES: To light thee on thy way to Mantua . Therefore stay yet . Thou needest not to be gone .
ROMEO: Let me be taken , let me be put to death . I have more care to stay than will to go . Come , death , and welcome ! Juliet wills it so .
JULIET: It is , it is ! Hie hence , be gone , away ! O , now be gone ! More light and light it grows .
ROMEO: More light and light more dark and dark our woes .
JULIET: Nurse !
ROMEO: Farewell , farewell . One kiss , and I 'll descend .
JULIET: O , think'st thou we shall ever meet again ?
ROMEO: I doubt it not ;
JULIET: O God , I have an ill-divining soul . Methinks I see thee , now thou art so low , As one dead in the bottom of a tomb .
ROMEO: Trust me , love , all these woes shall serve For sweet discourses in our times to come .
GLORIA: Ho daughter ! Are you up ?
ROMEO: Adieu , adieu !
JULIET: O Fortune , Fortune ! Be fickle , Fortune , Fo then I hope thou wilt not keep him long But send him back .
GLORIA: Thou hast a careful father , child One who , to put thee from thy heaviness , Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy That thou expects not nor I looked not for .
JULIET: Madam , in happy time . What day is that ?
GLORIA: Marry , my child , early next Thursday
MORN: The gallant , young , and noble gentleman , Sir Paris , at Saint Peter 's Church , Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride .
JULIET: Now by Saint Peter 's Church , and Peter too , He shall not make me there a joyful ide !
GLORIA: Here comes your father . Tell him so yourself .
CAPULET: How now , wife ? Have you delivered to her our decree ?
GLORIA: Ay , sir . But she will none , she gives you thanks . I would the fool were married to her grave !
CAPULET: How ? Will she none ? Is she not proud ? Doth she not count her blest , Unworthy as she is , that we have
WROUGHT: So worthy a gentleman to be he ide ?
JULIET: Not proud you have , but thankful that you have . Proud can I never be of what I hate .
CAPULET: Thank me no thankings , nor proud me no prouds , But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next
JULIET: Hear me with patience but to speak a word
CAPULET: Speak not , reply not , do not answe me !
SCREAMING: Fie , fie ! What are you mad ?
CAPULET: Hang thee , young baggage ! Disobedient wretch .
NURSE: God in heaven bless her ! You are to blame , my lord , to rate her so .
CAPULET: Peace , you mumbling fool !
JULIET: O sweet my mother , cast me not away ! Delay this marriage for a month , a week . Or if you do not , make the bridal
BED: In that dim monument where Tybalt lies .
GLORIA: Talk not to me , for I 'll not speak a word . Do as thou wilt , for I have done with thee .
JULIET: O God ! - O Nurse , how shall this be prevented ?
NURSE: Faith , here it is . I think it best you married with this Paris . O , he 's a lovely gentleman ! I think you are happy in this second match , For it excels your first ; or if it did not , Your first is dead - or 'twere as good he were As living here and you no use of him .
JULIET: Speakest thou from thy heart ?
NURSE: And from my soul too . Else beshrew them both .
JULIET: Amen .
UNSURE: What ?
JULIET: Well , thou hast comforted me marvellous much . Go in ; and tell my lady I am gone , Having displeased my father , to Friar Laurence , To make confession and to be absolved .
NURSE: This is wisely done .
DANGEROUS: That she doth give her sorrow so much sway , And in his wisdom hastes ou
MARRIAGE: To stop the inundation of he tears
DAVE: Happily met , my lady and my wife .
JULIET: That may be , sir , when I may be a wife .
DAVE: That 'may be ' , must be , love , on Thursday next .
JULIET: What must be , shall be .
FATHER LAURENCE: That 's a certain text .
DAVE: Come you to make confession ?
JULIET: Are you at leisure , holy father , now ? Or shall I come to you at evening mass ?
FATHER LAURENCE: My leisure serves me , pensive daughter , now . We must entreat the time alone .
DAVE: God shield I should distu devotion ! - Juliet , on Thursday early will I rouse ye ;
FATHER LAURENCE: O Juliet , I already know thy grief .
JULIET: Tell me not , Father , that thou hearest of this , Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it .
FATHER LAURENCE: It strains me past the compass of my wits .
DESPERATELY: If in thy wisdom thou canst give no
HELP: Do thou but call my resolution wise , And with this I 'll help it presently !
FATHER LAURENCE: Hold daughter !
JULIET: Be not so long to speak . I lone to die !
FATHER LAURENCE: I do spy a kind of hope , Which craves as desperate an
EXECUTION: As that is desperate which we would prevent . If , rather than marry Paris , Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself , Then it is likely thou wilt
UNDERTAKE: A thing like death
MORNING: Comes to rouse thee from thy bed , there art thou , dead . Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie . In the meantime , against thou shalt awake , Shall Romeo by my letters know ou drift , And hither shall he come . And that very Night shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua .
NURSE: Why Bride ?
JULIET: To move the heavens to smile upon my state , Which , well thou knowest , is cross and full of sin .
WHISPERS: What if this mixture do not work at all ? Shall I be married then tomorrow morning ?
GLORIA: What , are you busy , ho ? Need you my help ?
JULIET: No , madam . We have culled such
NECESSARIES: As are behoveful for our state tomorrow . So please you , let me now be left alone , And let the Nurse this night sit up with you .
GLORIA: Good night .
JULIET: Farewell !
FATHER LAURENCE: As the custom is , In all her best array bear her to church .
UNDERTAKER: She shall be borne to that same ancient vault Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie .
SPIRIT: Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts . I dreamt my lady came and found me
DEAD: And breathed such life with kisses in my lips That I revived and was an emperor . Ah me , how sweet is love itself
POSSESSED: When but love 's shadows are so rich in joy .
ROMEO: News from Verona !
BALTHASAR: Then she is well and nothing can be ill . Her body sleeps in Capels ' monument , And her immortal part with angels lives . I saw her laid low in her kindred 's vault .
ROMEO: Is it e'en so ?
BALTHASAR: Have patience
ROMEO: Leave me !
BALTHASAR: Your looks are pale and wild and do
IMPORT: Some misadventure .
ROMEO: Tush , thou art deceived . Hast thou no letters to me from the Priest ?
APOTHECARY: Such mortal drugs I have , but Verona 's law Is death to any he that utters them .
ROMEO: The world is not thy friend , no the world 's law . Then be not poor , but break it and take this .
APOTHECARY: My poverty , but not my will consents .
ROMEO: I pay thy poverty and not thy will .
FATHER LAURENCE: Who bore my letter then to Romeo ?
CLERK: I could not sent it - here it is again .
FATHER LAURENCE: By my brotherhood , unhappy fortune ! The letter was of dear import . Adieu .
APOTHECARY: Drink it off and if you had the strength of twenty men it would dispatch you straight .
ROMEO: There is my gold - worse poison to men 's souls Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell .
COP: This is that banished haughty Montague .
ROMEO: Upon thy life , whatever thou
HEAREST: Or seest , stand all aloof . Give me the light -
BALTHASAR: I do beseech you
ROMEO: Do not interrupt me in my course o By heaven I will tear thee joint by
JOINT: And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs !
BALTHASAR: I will be gone and not trouble ye .
ROMEO: So shalt thou show me friendship .
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Hold ! Hold !
ROMEO: Stand all aloof !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Romeo , come forth , come forth .
ROMEO: Tempt not a desperate man !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Bring forth these enemies Montague and Capulet .
FATHER LAURENCE: Saint Francis be my speed tonight !
ROMEO: O my love , my wife , Death , that hath sucked the honey of thy breath , Hath had no power yet upon thy eauty , Thou art not conquered . Beauty 's ensign yet Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks , And death 's pale flag is not advanced there .
DEATH: Is amorous and keeps thee here in
DARK: To be his paramour ? For fear of
THAT: I still will stay with thee . Here , oh here Will I set up my everlasting rest And shake the yoke of inauspicious
STARS: From this world-wearied flesh .
JULIET: Oh Romeo , what 's here ?
THEM: To make me die with a restorative .
ROMEO: Thus with a kiss I die .
JULIET: Romeo . O ' my true love Romeo .
FATHER LAURENCE: Balthasar ?
DESPERATELY: I brought news of Juliet 's death And then in post came Romeo from
MANTUA: To this same place to this same monument .
FATHER LAURENCE: How long hath he been there ?
BALTHASAR: Full half an hour .
FATHER LAURENCE: Romeo . The lady stirs
CAPTAIN PRINCE: Hold ! Go not forth !
FATHER LAURENCE: The lady stirs !
CAPTAIN PRINCE: See what a scourge is laid upon your hate , That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love ; And I , for winking at your discords too , Have lost a brace of kinsmen . All are punished .
ANCHOR WOMAN: A glooming peace this morning with it brings The sun for sorrow will not show his head . Go hence , to have more talk of these sad things . Some shall be pardoned , and some punished , For never was a story of more woe Than this of Juliet and her Romeo .
KILLER: God loves me .
LARRY: You wan na know what football is ? It 's hitting the other guy dirty and then spitting in his face when he 's down . Football is all things American , and American is A-Number-One the absolute fucking best there is . That 's what football is And that 's not football .
VINCENT: Football American football is a game for faggots .
DEIRDRE: Can I help you ?
SAM: No
DEIRDRE: I 'm here No , it was nothing .
SAM: Sorry I 'm late
VINCENT: What makes you think we 're here to meet you ?
SAM: Who else would you be ?
VINCENT: Perhaps the police ?
SAM: I know cops and you 're no cop .
VINCENT: Cigarette ?
SAM: No thanks .
VINCENT: Let 's just say he knows who I am .
LARRY: Anybody wan na tell me what we 're waiting for ?
VINCENT: The question is n't what we 're waiting for it 's who .
LARRY: And who the fuck is that ?
GREGOR: Whoever hired us .
SAM: I got this gig through a contractor . And he most definitely did n't know who was doing the hiring , only that they were paying a lot of money
GREGOR: Now that is an interesting proposition .
SWEDE: How so ?
GREGOR: Because if there 's more than one party involved , if we really are working fo different people , then perhaps some of us are on different sides . Your orders might be different from mine .
LARRY: What 're you talking about , man ? I do n't understand .
SWEDE: What a surprise
LARRY: I got a surprise for you , blondie
GREGOR: Why do n't both of you shut up ?
SAM: Knock it off !
LARRY: Anybody tries to unpleasant me I 'll put two between his eyes one to do the jo and the other to make sure it takes .
DEIRDRE: It 's good to see you 've all got such faith in our little undertaking .
LARRY: Who the fuck are you ?
DEIRDRE: The name is Deirdre , and I 'm running this show .
GREGOR: Who are you ? IRA ?
DEIRDRE: Not likely . Once , yeah , I was but there was n't an inch of profit in it , and I 'm a cash oriented girl , if you take my meaning . I 'm a hired gun , same as the est of you , and that 's all any of us needs to know about the other .
GREGOR: These days they they call me Gregor and I 'm a tech . I do electronic work , surveillance , computer runs . Deirdre turns to Sam .
SAM: Sam . I 'm a weapons guy .
DEIRDRE: You were a soldier , were you ?
SAM: Once .
LARRY: I drive and my name is Larry . Larry from the States .
DEIRDRE: And who are you ?
VINCENT: I 'm Vincent . And I coordinate .
SAM: Coordinate what ?
VINCENT: Things . This is my country , you know .
DEIRDRE: Coordinate all you want , but make sure whatever you do gets cleared through me . Are we in sync on this , Vincent ?
VINCENT: Of course .
SWEDE: They call me Swede .
LARRY: Who 's they ?
SWEDE: Everybody .
VINCENT: And what is it you do ?
SWEDE: Me ? I kill .
SAM: You shoot alright .
LARRY: Gets the job done .
SAM: All in the stomach , though . Your man might live .
LARRY: Not for long .
SAM: Long enough to shoot back .
LARRY: Is that right ?
SAM: It 's been known to happen .
LARRY: Why do n't you go do better , then
SAM: My way is better .
GREGOR: It 's quite satifactory .
DEIRDRE: Good , because it cost enough . There 's cheaper phones by far than that one , man you better fucking use it .
GREGOR: I intend to . This phone is wired like no other it 's got an encryption chip and instant sat-a-link recognition , it can talk to any computer in any language and make it understand . With my custom hardware and this phone I can trace the target 's cell phone signature and follow him anywhere he goes
DEIRDRE: You sure about this ?
GREGOR: I 'd stake my reputation .
DEIRDRE: But would you stake your life , that 's the question
GREGOR: In this business , your life and you eputation are more often than not one and the same .
SWEDE: You should watch what you eat .
LARRY: Who the fuck died and appointed you food czar ?
SWEDE: I 'm just worried about your health , Larry . You could stand to shed a few pounds .
LARRY: And you could stand to get a little smarter , ai n't that right you dumb blonde fuck ?
SWEDE: Who you calling dumb , dickless ?
DEIRDRE: Next one of you fuckers plays this game I 'm going to do for you myself . I wo n't say it again we do n't have time for this shit ! There 's a clock running on this job , gentlemen , and I mean to be on schedule .
VINCENT: Let 's go for a ride .
SAM: Where to ?
VINCENT: To see a man about a thing .
SAM: I can do that .
LEADER: Who gave you permission to park here ?
SAM: What 's he saying ?
VINCENT: Pretty much what you 'd expect .
SAM: That 's what I thought .
LEADER: There 's a charge for parking on ou lock .
VINCENT: He says this is their block .
SAM: As in , they own it ?
VINCENT: Something like that
SAM: And I suppose he 's saying that we oughta give them something for using it , huh ?
VINCENT: I did n't know that you spoke French .
SAM: I do n't . But the language he 's speaking is universal .
VINCENT: If you think we should .
SAM: Oh man , I am sorry about that Let me give you a hand .
VINCENT: I asked if we could give him anything else .
SAM: Jujitsu .
VINCENT: Same thing , is n't it ?
SAM: Not at all . Similar , but not the same .
VINCENT: What 's the difference ?
SAM: One 's a lot more painful than the other .
VINCENT: Help yourself . Since when do you smoke ?
SAM: I have , I do n't know , maybe a cigarette a week .
VINCENT: A cigarette ? As in one ? One cigarette a week , who smokes like that ?
SAM: I do .
VINCENT: Christ , I smoke a pack-and-a-half a day , and I tell myself I could be worse . It 's just so damned pleasurable .
SAM: It has it 's moments . Course , you get cancer and die , that 's the down side .
VINCENT: There is that .
SAM: So , Vincent why bring me along for the ide ? Job like this calls for a warm ody , somebody who can stand around and look threatening . A tough guy .
VINCENT: Like Larry or Swede .
SAM: Exactly . Why not bring them ?
VINCENT: Let 's just say I thought the conversational possibilities were limited . Of course , I might have brought Gregor , but he did n't seem like the right candidate for this .
SAM: Watch that one , he 's an ex-spook fo sure , maybe Stasi , maybe KGB . He 's smart , Gregor is .
VINCENT: So is the woman .
SAM: Deirdre ? Smart , yeah , and seriously goddamned dangerous .
VINCENT: I wonder if she truly left the IRA .
SAM: I 've wondered that myself . None of this answers my question , though Why bring me ?
VINCENT: I wanted to see who you were .
SAM: Who am I ?
VINCENT: You were once some kind of special forces . Airborne Ranger , maybe a Navy SEAL . After that you rode shotgun fo the CIA in some place like El Salvador o Afghanistan , a real mercenary . Only now now you 're like the rest of us , it 's a very competitive market since the end of the cold war . There 's a lot of hired guns out here , and not nearly enough work to go around .
SAM: That 's right there 's not hardly enough work these days , nothing that pays the ig money , anyhow . Then along comes this job , paying so much goddamned money I could n't afford not to take it . Somebody 's paying through the nose for this .
VINCENT: They certainly are . Whatever it is we 're going to steal , it must be quite something .
SAM: Whatever it is it must be goddamned priceless . And on that thought we -
VINCENT: Lovely , is n't it ?
SAM: They 'd have to keep something like this under lock and key in New York , and it would still get fucked up .
FRANCOIS: That 's good right where you are , Vincent .
VINCENT: Do you have it ?
FRANCOIS: Not so fast . Who 's that ?
VINCENT: He 's company .
FRANCOIS: Bad company
VINCENT: What do you mean ?
FRANCOIS: He 's a cop , Vincent , he 's French and he 's a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now !
SAM: What 's going on ?
VINCENT: I just wanted to see something .
SAM: See what ?
FRANCOIS: He wanted to see how you reacted when I said that you were a cop .
SAM: You told him I was a cop ?
FRANCOIS: He asked me to say it .
SAM: He asked you to ?
VINCENT: I needed to know .
SAM: You need to know a lot of shit , Vincent .
FRANCOIS: Are you ready ?
VINCENT: Here 's yours .
FRANCOIS: There 's been a slight problem .
VINCENT: What 's that ?
FRANCOIS: If you say a word in English , Vincent , my friend with the high powered sporting ifle will shoot you in the throat . Sorry to screw you over like this , but the information you want might get me killed if I give it to you , and that 's a price I 'm not willing to pay .
VINCENT: I take it you still want the money
FRANCOIS: Of course . SAM 'S POV Looking at Vincent and Francois .
VINCENT: Where 's my information ?
FRANCOIS: In here
VINCENT: Then you better find it in your heart to tell me , Francois , because while you death is inevitable , it still is n't decided how painful it 's going to be .
SAM: Now would be a good time to get the fuck out of here .
VINCENT: I needed to see if you were a cop . I 'm a popular man with the police , Sam , and whenever they try to catch me they always do it with an inside guy some man on some job who seems more trustworthy than all the others put together . And that 's the guy you have to watch out for . I hate cops
SAM: Well I ai n't a cop . A BEAT , the two men driving in silence .
VINCENT: How did you know ?
SAM: Know what ?
VINCENT: That there was a gun pointed at me .
SAM: I saw you look off when Francois nodded his head . I figured he was n't pointing out a particularly rare shrub , and the est was easy .
VINCENT: But how did you know I would have the presence of mind to pull my weapon when I did ?
SAM: Because that 's what I would have done
VINCENT: You saved my life back there in the park . I know this does n't begin to make it ight between us
SAM: What I did back in the park I did because we 're working together we 're on the same team . This is business this is work . We did it together , we share the spoils , even split .
VINCENT: I owe you a heavy debt .
SAM: Whatever you say .
VINCENT: We kept it
DEIRDRE: Is that right ?
SAM: Hazard pay
DEIRDRE: The two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information , and instead you went to fucking war
SAM: We were n't real thrilled about it either
LARRY: So what 's the deal ?
DEIRDRE: The deal ? The deal is we leave for Nice at first light .
LARRY: What 'd you guys do ?
DEIRDRE: I feel as if I 've wandered onto the set of Enter The Dragon . Could you teach me to do that ?
SAM: I did n't think to see you again tonight . You were pretty pissed .
DEIRDRE: I still am .
SAM: Is that right ?
DEIRDRE: That 's right .
SAM: Part of me says I should just look at this as a perk . You know , a bonus . But then I remember you 're you Deirdre who used to belong to the IRA and it occurs to me that deceit and subterfuge come very naturally to you .
DEIRDRE: Nobody 's saying they do n't .
SAM: And when I consider that , I have to wonder if you do n't have some ulterio motive for being here , with me , right now .
DEIRDRE: I probably do . But for the time being , I 'm willing to forget about it
GREGOR: I would imagine that the great satisfaction in all of this will be killing the American .
SWEDE: I had n't thought about it . Understand me , Gregor I take no pleasure in killing . It does n't bother me one bit , ut I do n't get off on it .
GREGOR: A means to an end , is that it ?
SWEDE: That 's it .
GREGOR: Then I guess we 're set .
SWEDE: There is one other thing
GREGOR: What 's that ?
SWEDE: Do n't cross me
GREGOR: Nobody 's going to do that !
SWEDE: Really ?
GREGOR: I need you , Swede , I ca n't do this without you !
SWEDE: I just wanted to make sure you knew who you were dealing with .
GREGOR: I do , I do
SWEDE: Just remember it , then .
DEIRDRE: Look , Sam , do n't take it the wrong way when I tell you we wo n't be doing this again .
SAM: You do n't have to explain yourself to me , Deirdre .
DEIRDRE: I know I do n't have to , Sam , it 's just that , for once , I want to . when I was a - Patriot , it was a given I 'd sleep with any man it was deemed necessary for me to sleep with . You know any man who needed setting up . Sometimes so we might lackmail him , sometimes so he could be killed . Sometimes so I could kill him myself . IRA is n't exactly an enlightened feminist organization , Sam . To most of the men I with I was always the girl . `` Send the girl to do it . '' `` Tell The girl to take care of it . '' `` Have the girl fuck him . '' But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am no more , no less .
SAM: You 're a hired gun , Deirdre just like me .
DEIRDRE: Exactly . And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me .
SAM: Duty calls ?
DEIRDRE: Just business .
GREGOR: I use my cell phone to get compute access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target . I trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through Nice , relaying that information to you .
DEIRDRE: Next .
LARRY: You call me with the target 's route , I follow along until we 've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road .
DEIRDRE: Which leads us to
SWEDE: I ride with fat-boy
LARRY: Eat shit and die slowly
SWEDE: After we stop the target car I get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard .
LARRY: I blast the lead car into oblivion
VINCENT: While Sam and I take out the back two cars
DEIRDRE: Leaving
SWEDE: Leaving me to step in , drop the target in the back seat , and get the package
DEIRDRE: While
SAM: While I back him up , making sure to get the package if something goes wrong and somebody takes Swede down .
SWEDE: Nobody 's taking me anywhere
DEIRDRE: And then
LARRY: Then Swede and I split with the package and meet you back at the rendezvous .
DEIRDRE: And then
VINCENT: And then Sam , you and I clean up whatever 's left to be cleaned .
DEIRDRE: Very good . Now all we have to do is live long enough to get paid .
GREGOR: Ready when you are
LARRY: Where is this broad ?
SWEDE: You should learn a little patience .
LARRY: Is that right ?
SWEDE: It 's consider a virtue in some corners of the world .
LARRY: Not in mine .
DEIRDRE: You want to take a left , then , so that you 're going west .
THE TARGET: Fuck you !
SWEDE: Not today .
LARRY: I do n't think so .
SAM: It 's a cocktail . Mostly demerol , cut with a little crank because we might need you awake in the real near future .
LARRY: Fine with fucking me , we got work to do . I do n't care what it takes , we are getting our property back and putting it into the hands of the people who are gon na pay us a great deal of money when we do . I do n't know about the rest of you guys , but I 'm not the kind of guy to just sit back and take it in the ass . I do n't mean that in , like , a literal way
DEIRDRE: Of course .
VINCENT: Finding this package is a thing easie said than done . We do n't even know what it is . What did we steal ?
DEIRDRE: I do n't know .
VINCENT: When this whole thing started you made it clear you 're running the show . And I do n't believe you 'd be running this show if you did n't know what was going on .
DEIRDRE: Well I do n't !
VINCENT: And I do n't believe you
DEIRDRE: You go shoot me if you want , Vincent , but you 'll be dead before I hit the ground .
VINCENT: I do n't want you dead , woman , I want the the truth !
SAM: put your guns down and chill out .
DEIRDRE: I do n't know Well I do n't ! It 's a goddamned mystery to me just like it is to you . But I do know who we 're working for . My people , and the Russian mob .
LARRY: Your people ? Who the fuck is you people ?
VINCENT: Who do you think , Larry ? The IRA .
DEIRDRE: And you believed me ? But it was n't my people who did it .
LARRY: How do we know that ?
SAM: Because if they had she 'd be gone along with the package , instead of sitting here with us .
DEIRDRE: Exactly . Gregor , he was the Russian 's man . It was my people came up with the idea for this run , but the Russians who had the capital to finance it . Gregor , he was their insurance , and I was ours . Everybody else was supposed to be neutral . Gregor must 've got to Swede
LARRY: I never did trust that blonde fuck
DEIRDRE: That 's why you were riding with him .
VINCENT: The question still remains what do we do now ?
SAM: Gregor 's cell phone
LARRY: What are you gon na do , call him up and ask him to give us back our shit ?
SAM: Did he bring that with him ?
DEIRDRE: I bought it for him all the stuff he was using , it was in his contract . Cost a nice penny , too , especially that goddamned phone Gregor had expensive tastes .
SAM: Check this out . Gregor 's a spook , or he was one until ecently . When he was a spy he lived the life you know , a prince in some Eastern Bloc country where nobody had shit and Gregor had everything . Then the wall goes down . No more Cold War . And Gregor is out of a job . No apartment , no special stores with Western food and video tapes . I would bet dollars against shit that Gregor liked that phone and he does n't want to give it up . And I would n't be surprised if he 's arrogant enough to think
DEIRDRE: That we 're too stupid to trace his calls .
GREGOR: It 's a beautiful street , no ?
DAPPER GENT: Do you have it ?
GREGOR: Always in a rush , you are . All these years I 've known you , you could neve wait for anything .
DAPPER GENT: This is important .
GREGOR: Do you really think so ?
DAPPER GENT: You know it is .
GREGOR: Relax !
DAPPER GENT: What are you doing , have you lost you mind ? ! ?
GREGOR: To make a point . I do n't know her , and I was ready to splatter her brains all ove the sidewalk . I do n't particularly like you , so imagine what I 'll do if you try anything
DAPPER GENT: Enough ! We 've been driving for an hour , where is my package ?
GREGOR: It 's under your seat .
DAPPER GENT: What ?
GREGOR: As my American friend Larry would say are you fucking deaf ? It 's under you seat .
DAPPER GENT: I ca n't believe you 'd do that , Gregor . I thought I trained you better than that .
GREGOR: It 's done .
SAM: What 's going on ?
VINCENT: You were n't around when I woke up , I thought maybe something had happened . This has been one very fucked up job , Sam , and I 'm not taking any more chances on anybody Including you
SAM: I came up here to sneak a smoke .
VINCENT: You were smoking ?
SAM: I hope you do n't mind I took your pack . It was on the table .
VINCENT: Please , help yourself . Smoke as many you 'd like .
SAM: I borrowed that , too
VINCENT: Of coursewhenever you feel like it just help yourself .
SAM: I have a feeling I 'm about to start uying my own .
VINCENT: A lot of people died .
SAM: I 've seen a lot of people die before .
VINCENT: I have n't . Not like that . How do you get used to it ?
SAM: You do n't . You just learn to live with it .
VINCENT: I wo n't lie there have been times when I had to do it , times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man did n't .
SAM: We live in a singular world , my friend .
VINCENT: I never really thought I was part of the world you move in , Sam , to tell you the truth . I 'm a hood , a thief . Big time in a small time king of way . To the local police I 'm a prize , to the local hoods I 'm a legend . But to a guy like you I 'm just another two bit hired gun .
SAM: You might be a hired gun , Vincent , but I got a feeling you cost more than two its .
DEIRDRE: Christ , I was starting to think that the two of you had thrown it in and walked away . There 's someone on the phone downstairs asking for you , and my somewhat limited French leads me to believe that he might have something to tell us about Gregor .
LARRY: That I could be dead and I 'd drive bette than you .
DEIRDRE: Oh shut up
VINCENT: He 's going north . That 's Aix en Provence , where he used the phone .
SAM: He 's going back .
VINCENT: Not necessarily . He could go off road at any number of places . He might not even e in the country anymore .
SAM: It 's Paris . The route 's too indirect fo anything else . A guy like Gregor , he does n't waste time on this road unless he has to be on it in the first place . Otherwise , he 'd be out of the country by now . He 's going to Paris . Now I just hope we can find him before he gets there .
DEIRDRE: If somebody else does n't find him first .
DAD: Opera ? This is an opera festival ?
MOM: I told you that , Henry .
DAD: I thought you meant Phantom of the Opera . You know , Andrew Lloyd Weber , Cats , that kind of thing .
LARRY: Thisthis is incredible . Is the rest of Europe like this ?
DEIRDRE: Some places , not all . Italy , fo instance , they 're serious about thei food . But try bloody Britain , anywhere in the U.K. , you do n't get much fancie than a deep-fried bar egg . Food 's not our thing , you see .
LARRY: What is ?
DEIRDRE: Best beer in the world known to man o God .
LARRY: Best beer in the world ? Budweiser fo me , thanks .
DEIRDRE: Budweiser ? You talk to me of beer and you 've the unbridled gall to mention Budweiser in the same sentence ? That 's not beer ! Christ , it 's not even a poo excuse for rabbit piss .
LARRY: Oh yeah ? Whatta you drink , then ?
DEIRDRE: I drink what every civilized man , woman and child in the world drinks Guinness .
VINCENT: but we 've got to get back on the road .
LARRY: I 'm driving .
VINCENT: I know those men .
SAM: Whatever you hear , whatever happens , when your partners come back out , you make sure you 're here with the motor running .
GREGOR: Edvard , is that you ?
EDVARD: Yes , Gregor , they sent me .
GREGOR: I 'm touched , really , that they 'd send someone of your caliber . It 's nice to know that they did n't make the mistake of underestimating me twice .
EDVARD: That was a mistake , trying to kill you . Mikhi did it without consulting me , I 'd have never allowed it .
GREGOR: I 'm sure . But I 'm sorry to say that it 's too late for trust we have a serious problem .
EDVARD: We 'll double your price .
GREGOR: Really ? Do you have the money with you ?
EDVARD: Do you have the material ?
GREGOR: You first , Edvard .
EDVARD: Perhaps we could both go at the same time
GREGOR: I think not . After you
SAM: You might have been one mean technical spook , Gregor , but you would n't have lasted a week in the field .
EDVARD: Gregor , are you alright ?
DEIDRE: but I think you 're in a bit of trouble .
SAM: Do n't talk to me unless you tell me what I want to hear , understand ? ! ? You have no choice in this , do n't think about winning , think about staying alive . I want the item , and if you do n't give it to me , I 'm gon na kill you .
GREGOR: I do n't have it with me
SAM: Bullshit !
GREGOR: I swear
SAM: Then where is it ?
GREGOR: I sent it to myself in Paris .
SAM: Sent it where ?
GREGOR: A post office box .
EDVARD: Do you know who he is ? He 's with Interpol , the Internation Police . He 's a cop .
VINCENT: You 're a copyou 're a fucking copI should kill you .
SAM: But you ca n't .
SEAMUS: If you want to live you 'll do exactly as I tell you .
EDVARD: Where do I know you from ?
VINCENT: Vienna .
EDVARD: Of courseI remember . I quite liked you , I 'm sorry to have to do this .
DEIRDRE: Cold cocking the poor son-of-a-bitch would have sufficed , Seamus , do n't you think ?
VINCENT: That double-crossing bitch .
SAM: I did n't save your life back there . Risked it , maybe but I did n't save shit .
VINCENT: You see it your way , I 'll see it mine . You need a doctor .
SAM: You know one around here ? Somebody you trust ?
VINCENT: NoI thought I 'd take you to the hospital .
SAM: No hospitals . I 'll fix this myself if I have to .
VINCENT: Fix it yourself ? Why are we even doing this ? There 's no need to run , Christ You 're a cop .
SAM: Not exactly .
VINCENT: You 're with Interpol you 're a cop .
SAM: If I was a cop , a real cop , I 'd have usted you a long time ago . This is n't about you , it 's about the job I have to do .
VINCENT: And what job is that ?
SAM: My job , Vincent , a job you do n't need to know about . I ca n't go to the local cops they 'd never be able to get close enough at this point . It 's me or nobody , and I 've been on this job too goddamned long not to finish .
VINCENT: It looks to me like we 're all that 's left of our group .
SAM: We ? There is no we in my world now , Vincent , just me .
VINCENT: I 'm going with you .
SAM: This does n't involve you , do n't you understand ? I ca n't even guarantee you any money out of all this .
VINCENT: It is n't about money for me , not anymore .
SAM: You do n't have to do this .
VINCENT: Yes I do .
DEIRDRE: When we 're done with this , I want to do for that one myself .
SEAMUS: Now there 's the Deirdre I know .
DEIRDRE: And what 's that supposed to mean , Seamus Reilly ?
SEAMUS: It means I was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you . You 've been living the life of the hired gun the well paid hired gun , I might note . There 's no glory to it , but there are those that like it .
DEIRDRE: So you thought that maybe I 'd grown too attached to this charade I 've been playing , is that it ?
SEAMUS: It 's been known to happen .
DEIRDRE: Not to me , you know that .
SEAMUS: I thought I did .
DEIRDRE: I guess you do n't know me , then , if you think I wo n't kill you for an insult like that !
SEAMUS: Just testing , lass . Forgive me , but I had to do it .
DEIRDRE: Remember what we agreed on , Seamus when we get home , I do n't play `` the girl '' again .
VINCENT: Hello , Jean-Pierre .
SAM: American .
VINCENT: It 's right there , beneath the surface . I can just make it out .
SAM: No boozePain 's in the mind , and the mind I can control . Alright , let 's do it .
VINCENT: Alright , it 's done .
SAM: You see the bullet ?
VINCENT: Clearly .
SAM: Good . Now take the forceps , and emember , Vincent , what we 're doing here is routine . I 've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field . There are no vital organs where you 're working , no major muscles or arteries you ca n't kill me . Just make sure you 've got the ullet before you try to pull it out .
VINCENT: A souvenir
SAM: You think you can stitch me up on you own ?
VINCENT: Yes , Sam 's tough alright .
SAM: Some , thanks . Enough to move on , fo now .
DEIRDRE: Where 's the case ?
GREGOR: There 's a problem
SEAMUS: Problem my ass ! I think you 're lying to me , and if you are you 're a dead man !
DEIRDRE: Would somebody tell me what fucking well happened in there ?
SEAMUS: Nothing .
GREGOR: The package did n't come . I 'm sure it will tomorrow .
SEAMUS: If you 're lying to me you poor excuse fo a human being , I 'm gon na blow your brains all over this car .
GREGOR: I swear , it has to come here ! It has to
SEAMUS: Ease up , manI 'm just checking to make sure you 're on the level .
TONY: Hey , man , they 're both great movies . One is more of a character study , the othe is more of a straight action thing , but they 're great movies , and he 's an amazing fucking filmmaker .
VINCENT: I 'm alright . And you ?
TONY: Doing well . This is ?
VINCENT: A friend . I was telling him about how you always have the latest tapes .
TONY: Why do n't we step into my office
VINCENT: I was wondering if you had any movies that were particularly new .
TONY: Matter of face there 's this flick I 've een hearing about . I have n't seen it , ut from what I hear it 's pretty cool .
SAM: What 's the story ?
TONY: It 's an international thing . Several different peoples involved , criminals from all over the world , experts brought together to do a job . But maybe the most interesting thing about it is that preeminent in the plot we find the Russian Mob and the IRA in bed together . An unlikely group of partners .
VINCENT: Do you have the tape ?
TONY: I might know where you could get a copy .
VINCENT: You said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape ?
TONY: All depends on whether you want the Russian or the Gaelic language version .
SAM: Gaelic .
TONY: You sure ?
SAM: I 'm sure .
VINCENT: Can you get it ?
TONY: The Russian would be easier .
SAM: Why 's that ?
TONY: Cause the Russian production company would be easier to find .
SAM: It 's the Irish tape we want .
TONY: Gon na be tough . Tony scribbles something on a piece of paper .
SAM: Seamus Reilly .
VINCENT: You know him ?
SAM: I know of him .
TONY: Seamus Reilly , boy 's a serious Irish Auteur a real firebrand . Thinks his more moderate filmmaking brethren have turned to making movies for peace-loving pussies , if you see what I 'm saying .
VINCENT: I get the picture .
TONY: I got ta try and overcharge him , he has to moan about the price , we settle somewhere in the middle .
VINCENT: It 's a matter of respect . Why do n't you wait outside , this wo n't take long .
SAM: The Irish representative ?
VINCENT: Yes . Vincent gives Sam another piece of paper .
SAM: What 's this ?
VINCENT: The address of the Russian production company . Just in case we need to find them .
SAM: Thorough man . Vincent starts the car and we -
VINCENT: If Tony says this is it , then it 's it .
SAM: Do what ?
VINCENT: Continue when it would be so much easie to give it up .
SAM: It 's my job .
VINCENT: Then quit . You do n't work for Interpol , Sam .
SAM: Sure I do . You heard him , you heard the guy that 's what he said , what Edvard said .
VINCENT: It 's a cover , then . A cover within a cover , a feint within a feint . You work for the CIA , it 's the only possible answer .
SAM: I 'm a field agent last of an already extinct breed . I do dark ops .
VINCENT: Dark ops ?
SAM: Dark operations . Wet work . Kidnaping . Assassination .
VINCENT: Very ugly .
SAM: It is at that .
VINCENT: Not very zen of you , huh ? Not so much the modern Samurai after all .
SAM: I never made that claim .
VINCENT: I know . Jean-Pierre did .
SAM: You were behind the door ?
VINCENT: I was waiting to see what would happen . I did n't want to kill him if I did n't have to .
SAM: You would have done that ?
VINCENT: I would have tried not to . But yes , if it would have kept him from shooting you , I would have .
SAM: How could you have done that ?
VINCENT: Because I owe you . Look at that
SAM: They do n't have the package .
VINCENT: You think ?
SAM: You said it yourself Gregor 's not dead . If they had the package , they 'd have killed him .
DEIRDRE: Well , if it is n't Mr. Interpol himself . I ca n't believe I misjudged you like I did .
SAM: Oh please..you 're on some sort of holy mission ?
DEIRDRE: I 'm a patriate .
SAM: Do n't even think that I 'm buying that .
DEIRDRE: Where do you get off saying word one ? All the time pretending to be one of us , it 's the same thing we were doing , Seamus and myself . And here you are so high and mighty , like you 're so different from the est of us .
SAM: I did n't say I was .
DEIRDRE: Bloody fucking hell
SAM: Do n't even think it .
VINCENT: What the fuck happened ?
SAM: I do n't know
VINCENT: You do n't know ? Bullshit , you had her , there was no way out .
SEAMUS: What in bloody hell is going on ?
DEIRDRE: They 're part of the team . One of them 's the guy I told you about .
SEAMUS: From Interpol ?
DEIRDRE: That 's him .
VINCENT: Why did n't you kill her ?
SEAMUS: Why did n't you kill him ?
VINCENT: You slept with her !
SEAMUS: How is it these fellahs managed to get the drop on us ?
DEIRDRE: I told you they 're good
VINCENT: You slept with her !
SEAMUS: You should have kill him when you had the chance . But no
VINCENT: You put everything on the line because you
SEAMUS: You slept with the fucker ! !
VINCENT: Left left left ! ! !
SEAMUS: This better be the real thing or you 're a dead man !
GREGOR: It is , I 'm telling you it is ! !
SEAMUS: You 've told me a lot of things , boyo
DEIRDRE: You lose them !
SEAMUS: To the right ! ! !
SAM: Give me a cigarette .
VINCENT: Right now ?
SAM: Gim me a goddamn cigarette ! ! ! !
VINCENT: Why are you driving ? You 're not French , you do n't live here , you do n't know these roads . Why are you driving ?
SEAMUS: About time !
DEIRDRE: Not yet
SEAMUS: Good Christ ! Ca n't you lose these jokers ?
DEIRDRE: They 're good !
SAM: Nice place .
VINCENT: I 'm not here very much .
SAM: Business keeps you on the road ?
VINCENT: Something like that .
SAM: I know I do n't need to say this to you , ut I need to say it to you . This is my job , I have to do it .
VINCENT: So I do it .
SAM: No you do n't , and you know it .
VINCENT: If our positions were reversed , would you leave me ?
SAM: In a minute .
VINCENT: I think not .
SAM: Yeah . We need out fucking heads examined .
DEIRDRE: You better be careful , Seamus , before something happens a plastic surgeon ca n't fix .
SEAMUS: Plastic fucking surgeon ? You think I 'm going to fix this , Deirdre lass ? It 's the mark of the patriot , and I 'll wear it like a badge . As for those who done it to me , I 'll take my pound of flesh before this is all over .
DEIRDRE: You 're thinking with your gun , Seamus , and not your head
SEAMUS: Shut up ! ! ! Shut up and drive ! I 'm your superio officer and you will do as I goddamn well say , is that understood ? ! ?
DEIRDRE: No , Seamus . I heard you the first time .
SAM: Not here . They might see it .
VINCENT: If I 'm going to die for the CIA , I 'm going to go out smoking . Besides , there 's half a forest between us and them , they ca n't see a goddamned thing .
SAM: Time to quit .
VINCENT: Just like that ?
SAM: Not just like that Just before I turn around and it 's six months from now and the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning is light a cigarette .
VINCENT: What of it ? Samurai pain in the ass .
SAM: Would you stop with that
VINCENT: Why ? You 've got more force of will than anyone I 've ever seen . You handle a gun like it 's a part of you , you perform surgery on yourself without anesthesia And most amazing of all , you quit smoking , just like that .
SAM: The mark of a true Samurai . What I do for the Company , Vincent , is no different than what you do . We 're both hired guns , and this is a job like any other job .
VINCENT: Why then , Sam , do n't you act like this is a job like any other ? Surely , if you are a hired gun , you realize that some times you just have to walk away without getting what you came for .
SAM: Because I do n't walk away .
VINCENT: Why not ?
SAM: It 's the one thing I 've got left to hold onto . Jean-Pierre is one of your closest friends , is he not ?
VINCENT: Closest and oldest .
SAM: And yet you would have killed him to save my life . You have a sense of honor , Vincent , that I ca n't even remember anymore . I do n't know that I ever even had it to begin with . All I know to do , Vincent , is to finish my job .
VINCENT: And when you finish ? What then ? This package , whatever it is , do you give it to the CIA ? Do you really think they deserve it ?
SAM: That 's a good question .
VINCENT: Do you have a good answer ?
SAM: No , I do n't .
MIKHI: Sit , sit Would you like one ?
GREGOR: No , Mikhi , I would n't . Since I wo n't speak your language , and you ca n't speak mine , English will do nicely .
MIKHI: Whatever you wish This has all been a terrible mistake , Gregor . I wanted to play straight with you , but Edvard insisted we try and kill you .
GREGOR: Edvard said the same thing about you efore he died .
MIKHI: I 'm shocked , shocked to think that you 'd elieve him .
GREGOR: Enough !
MIKHI: Ahh
GREGOR: What is he doing here ?
SEAMUS: What am I doing here ? Why , I 'm here to see my partners , Gregor , the boys in the Russian Mafia . See , your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross . But they only just found out that what 's in the iefcase is completely useless without me . I ca n't fight them , and they ca n't kill me that means we 're gon na have to do business together .
GREGOR: But you hate each other !
SEAMUS: What 's a little hate between business partners ?
SAM: I 'm on point , Vincent .
GREGOR: So , you 've got it all figured , do you ?
SEAMUS: Figured enough to know there 's an odd man out and I 'm looking at him .
GREGOR: I think not . I have , of course , taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens . Unless , of course , I deactivate it before it goes off .
DEIRDRE: That fucking figures
GREGOR: Should any of you decide to rush me , I 'll kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time .
MIKHI: And more importantly
GREGOR: I 'll destroy whatever 's in the case .
SEAMUS: It looks , Gentlemen , as if we 're gon na have to sit down to table and work out an agreement .
MIKHI: What was that ?
VINCENT: That 's one less I owe you
DEIRDRE: You two stay here and watch our mutual interest .
SAM: Let 's work our way through the building . I 'll take one wing , you take the other .
SEAMUS: I ca n't take it anymore . Watch him , man , I 'm going out and finish what needs finishing !
SAM: Go on , them
DEIRDRE: Let it go , Sam , walk away .
GREGOR: We 'll die if we stay here !
MIKHI: You 'll die if you leave here .
VINCENT: You have to stop doing that !
SAM: I 'll work on it
SEAMUS: It 's you You 're the one did this to my face , are you ?
SAM: That 's me .
SEAMUS: Have a nice afterlife .
DEIRDRE: I 'm no girl , Seamus
SAM: Let 's get him out of here
VINCENT: Finish the job
SAM: And now
VINCENT: Finish it !
DEIRDRE: Sam
VINCENT: I 'm really sick of you saving my life . Go out and get the bastard .
DEIRDRE: He 's got the briefcase rigged to explode five seconds after anybody other than himself tries to open it .
SAM: Deirdre , wait up
GREGOR: You might have made a good field agent you arrogant American prick , but you 're not smart enough to go up against me .
DEIRDRE: Do n't do it , Sam !
GREGOR: Shut up !
DEIRDRE: He 'll kill me anway , Sam , shoot though me and kill this fucker .
SEAMUS: Shoot that traitorous bitch and I 'll let you live .
SAM: Are you alright ?
DEIRDRE: Alright ? It 's bloody fucking freezing in here !
DETECTIVE: I need to speak with that man .
SAM: I 'm sorry , I ca n't allow that .
DOCTOR: You can see your friend , now .
SAM: Thank you very much .
DOCTOR: The field dressing you put on saved his life . Where di you learn to do that ?
SAM: Here and there , I guess .
VINCENT: You son-of-a-bitch
SAM: What ?
VINCENT: You speak French .
SAM: What of it ?
VINCENT: Nothing
SAM: You do n't owe me a goddamned thing , Vincent , and you know it . You stepped in front of a bullet for me . I owe you a heavy debt .
VINCENT: I know .
SAM: You better get some sleep , alright ?
VINCENT: Tell me something first . The package what was it ?
SAM: I do n't know . Nobody knows , except a unch of people who are too dead to tell us . There 's probably a couple of guys ack at the Company who know , but I do n't think they plan to tell me anytime soon .
VINCENT: What happened to it ?
SAM: Gone . Destroyed .
VINCENT: I guess that 's for the best .
SAM: It 's what you would have done .
VINCENT: Just to keep me company , Sam I hate smoking alone . How about you ? I thought all you IRA types smoked .
DEIRDRE: Only the stupid ones . Cigarettes kill more patriots than bullets . Besides , I 'm not IRA no more .
VINCENT: So where do you go from here ?
DEIRDRE: I do n't know . I was thinkingMaybe the three of us might partner up guns fo hire , that sort of thing .
VINCENT: I 'm up for that
SAM: Not me . You work too often with the same people and you become friends clouds your judgement .
DEIRDRE: Come off it , Sam if we were n't friends already we would n't be here now , would we ?
VINCENT: She 's got a point . Besides , I know of a job that 's available . Sam ca n't help it he 's interested .
SAM: How much does it pay ?
PUNK: This is for Seamus !
VINCENT: We have to go , Sam , we ca n't be here .
JACK: Ma . I 'm five !
MA: Mind over matter . He taps his head too as he chants the slogan .
JACK: If we do n't mind , it does n't matter .
MA: Guess what we 're going to make later .
JACK: What ?
MA: A cake .
JACK: A birthday cake , like in TV ?
MA: But for real .
JACK: You , pink soft , pink swirls .
MA: You always pick that . But I guess it 's your birthday .
JACK: Me , bear and jeans .
MA: Good choice !
JACK: Just one more planet . Ma stands up , doing a zombie impression .
MA: Too much TV will turn us into zombies Anyway , it 's time to mark how tall you are .
JACK: I 'm not very taller after four .
MA: Oh , that 's pretty normal .
JACK: Yeah ?
MA: Everything 's hunky-dory .
JACK: Okey-dokey .
MA: Sorry , I already asked for jeans for you for Sunday Treat . He swallows his disappointment .
JACK: I 'm going to grow and grow till I 'm a giant . Look , Ma . Look how big my superpowers are already .
MA: You 'll be as strong as Samson soon .
JACK: Huger every day .
MA: Gigantic .
JACK: Enormous . Hugeormous .
MA: Good word sandwich .
JACK: I 'm going to be Jack the Giant Giant-Killer and burst out of Skylight into Space with my dog Lucky and boing boing boing between all the planets
MA: Come on , you can read Dylan yourself .
JACK: I can read them all but I like when you do .
MA: Heeeeeeeere 's Dylan , the sturdy digger ! / The loads he shovels get igger and bigger . / Watch his long arm delve into the earth , / No excavator so loves to munch dirt .
JACK: Our friend Spoon , sings to the moon . Ma beats the eggs in .
MA: Our friend Knife runs for his life .
MA: Abracadabra !
JACK: Now the candles . Reading her face , his crumples .
MA: Jack -
JACK: You should ask for candles fo Sunday Treat , not dumb jeans .
MA: Sorry . I have to ask for stuff we eally need that he can get easily .
JACK: But Old Nick gets anything , by magic .
MA: Try your cake , I bet it 's delicioso .
JACK: Next week when I 'm six you bette ask for real candles .
MA: Next year , you mean . Later Half the cake is eaten .
MA: But one day the mermaid finds where the fisherman hid her comb .
JACK: Ha ha .
MA: So she runs home to the sea .
JACK: Does he drown ?
MA: No , he 's half-merman . He can eathe air or water , whichever .
JACK: Laundry Time . With relish , he plunges them under the water .
MA: and Edmond swims and swims to the island of Monte Cristo and digs up all the treasure , and
JACK: Can we have more birthday cake ?
MA: Tomorrow .
JACK: Just a bite .
MA: We 've brushed our teeth already .
JACK: One more story ?
MA: Jack , it 's late . Come on .
MA: OK .
OLD NICK: What 's that ? A birthday cake ?
JACK: Five .
JACK: One twenty-eight , one twenty- nine
MA: Shh .
MA: Cheap piece of
JACK: Why Plant does n't make flowers anymore ?
MA: Maybe she 's tired .
CONTINUED: 14 CONTINUED 14
JACK: You made him gone ! Ma starts to sweep up the crumbs .
MA: They 'd steal our food .
JACK: Mouse can have my food , I 'm not hungry .
MA: They 'd bring in germs , bite us in the night .
JACK: Mouse is my friend and you splatted him dead .
MA: No I did n't , he 's hunky-dory . She stops blocking up the hole to hug Jack .
JACK: Are you just tricking me ?
MA: I swear , he 's safe at home with his Ma in the backyard .
JACK: What backyard ?
MA: Hey , let 's make a UFO with this .
JACK: Why you did n't tell Old Nick it was my birthday ?
MA: Because he 's not our friend .
JACK: He said he 'd brung me a present .
MA: You should n't hear what he - You 're meant to be asleep .
JACK: I never had a present .
MA: He did n't mean it .
JACK: It might be Lucky my dog .
MA: Jack . We ca n't have a dog . We do n't have room - - space , enough space - cooped up in here with the barking , the scratching
JACK: Lucky wo n't scratch , he promises .
MA: There is no Lucky !
JACK: Yeah there is .
MA: He 's just made-up , in your head , he 's not real . Devastated , Jack bursts into tears . Ma sits down beside him and strokes him .
HOSTESS: most poignant aspect , I can speak for all our viewers , so , so deeply moved by what you endured .
JACK: Ma . Where are we when we 're asleep ?
MA: Right here in Room .
JACK: But dreams . Do we go into TV fo dreaming ?
MA: We 're never anywhere but here .
JACK: I want some .
MA: Jack . Go to sleep .
JACK: I can do it .
MA: I guess they still ca n't hear us .
JACK: Tomorrow we 'll do even louderer .
MA: Jack !
JACK: What smells bad ?
OLD NICK: Yeah , well , thinking 's not you strong suit .
MA: The vitamins ?
OLD NICK: Waste of money .
MA: If we had a better diet , maybe
MA: I 'm sorry .
OLD NICK: Like pulling teeth sometimes . Ma waits for him to calm down .
MA: No .
OLD NICK: Who pays the power bills ? Who pays for everything ? She gives the required answer .
MA: You .
OLD NICK: And where do you think the money 's going to keep coming from ?
MA: What do you mean ?
OLD NICK: Nothing .
MA: No , but -
MA: What are you going to do ? He does n't answer .
OLD NICK: Do n't think so . You keep him in the closet all day as well as all night ? Poor little freak has two heads or something ?
MA: Let 's go to bed .
OLD NICK: Did n't your Momma ever teach you manners ?
MA: Please .
OLD NICK: Hey sonny .
MA: Get away from him ! Get away !
JACK: Sorry I - sorry - sorry -
MA: It 's OK. She soothes him .
JACK: Ma , we 're dragons .
MA: He 's cut the power .
JACK: For , you see , so many out-of-the- way things had happened lat-ely -
MA: Lately .
JACK: - lately , that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible .
MA: Lunch !
JACK: No thanks .
MA: We have to use them up before they ot . Once we eat we 'll feel warmer .
JACK: When 's Old Nick going to put the power back ?
MA: Soon .
JACK: When 's soon ?
MA: Once he 's not mad with me anymore . Jack watches the bruises on her throat move .
JACK: I hope he never comes back not ever .
MA: Jack . Think about it . He does , with difficulty .
JACK: No Sunday Treat ?
MA: No anything .
JACK: My friend Mouse ?
MA: You know where he is right now ? Jack looks all around Room .
JACK: What other side ?
MA: Oh Jack , everything has two sides .
JACK: Not an octagon .
MA: No , that 's -
MA: But a wall 's like this . And we 're on the inside , in Room , and Mouse is on the outside , see ?
JACK: In Outer Space ?
MA: No , in the world . It 's much close than Outer Space . She shows him the distance with her hands .
JACK: You ca n't smell TV .
MA: But it 's not TV . It 's the real world we smell . You 're so smart , I know you 've started wondering .
JACK: From TV by magic .
MA: There 's no magic ! Everything we see on TV - it 's pictures of real stuff and real people in the world .
JACK: Dora 's real for real ?
MA: No , sorry , not Dora , she 's just a picture , but the other ones , with faces like ours - and there 's real streets and oceans , dogs , cats -
JACK: Can I have a sandwich ?
MA: Look ! A leaf !
JACK: Where ?
MA: On skylight .
JACK: Dumbo Ma . That 's not a leaf . Leaves are green .
MA: On the trees they are but when they fall they rot , like salad , in the fridge , they - .
JACK: Where 's all the stuff you said ? Trees and dogs and -
MA: No I 'm not .
JACK: Liar liar pants on fire !
MA: Jack . I could n't explain before , you were too small to understand , so.. I had to make up a story .
JACK: I want to be four again .
MA: You know how Alice was n't always in Wonderland ?
JACK: She fell down down down the hole .
MA: Well , I 'm like Alice . I was n't always in Room . A heavy silence , as Jack absorbs this .
JACK: What house ?
MA: The house where we lived , with a hammock in the back yard . We used to swing in the hammock and eat ice cream .
JACK: A TV house ?
MA: It 's not TV , Jack . Are you listening ? No answer from him .
JACK: Where was I ?
MA: Still up in heaven . So this guy ran up to me , saying his -
JACK: I want a different story .
MA: You need to hear this one . He put me in his garden shed .
JACK: Where ?
MA: Here . Room 's the shed . He 's the only one with the code - secret numbers to open the door . I 've been locked in here for seven years . Do you understand ?
JACK: This story 's boring . Beat .
MA: Jack , the world . You would n't elieve how big it is . Room 's only a tiny stinky piece of it .
JACK: Room 's not stinky . Only when you do a fart . Ma sit 's down . She does n't look at Jack .
MA: OK .
JACK: I do n't believe in your stinky world .
MA: Fine . That 's fine Jack .
JACK: It 's warm again . But she pulls the pillow over her head .
MA: Apple ? He takes a big bite and hands it back to her .
JACK: Bad Tooth ? Can I have it ?
MA: Sure , if you want it .
JACK: Are turtles real ?
MA: Totally real . I had a pet turtle .
DAVID ATTENBOROUGH: Crocodiles , sharks , and hungry fish are all waiting in the shallows .
JACK: Crocodiles and sharks -
MA: They 're all real .
ANNE: Oh , my lord
HENRY: Not while he plays here
ANNE: I 'll send him away -
MA: Ah , they 're real people playing dress-up , pretending to be people from hundreds of years ago . Jack is puzzled by that . He switches channels TOM AND JERRY .
JACK: Just TV ?
MA: You 're getting it !
JACK: When Old Nick comes back , I 'm going to kick him in the butt . This suddenly punctures her mood .
MA: Jack .
JACK: We could wait till he 's asleep and kill him dead .
MA: Yes we could , but then we 'd have no more food - and we would n't know the code , on the door , to get out .
JACK: The Grandma and the Grandpa could come .
MA: They do n't know where we are , Jack . Room 's not on any map . His eyes slide to the blank screen .
JACK: Can I have more TV ?
MA: Jack , I want you to listen to me . Jack ! He looks at her .
JACK: You can tell it .
MA: I 'll write you a note to give them .
JACK: You can give them .
MA: I wo n't be in the hospital , I 'll be here . Jack jumps up , rigid with panic .
JACK: No . No .
MA: It 'll be OK .
JACK: With you !
MA: He wo n't take us both . You 'll go first , just to the hospital so you can tell the police , and then
JACK: Maybe next year when I 'm six . Ma 's face falls . Then hardens .
MA: Tonight . Jack starts shaking his head frantically .
JACK: Tomorrow .
MA: I 'm your Ma . Sometimes I have to pick for both of us .
JACK: Ow !
MA: You need to feel hot when he touches you .
JACK: What are you doing ? Ma manges to vomit a little .
MA: Makes you smell sick .
JACK: I 'm scared . Ma strokes his face .
MA: I know .
OLD NICK: You know the drill not a peep out of you till the door 's shut .
MA: Sorry , just - Jack 's really bad .
OLD NICK: You brought that on yourself .
MA: I could n't keep him warm , and now he 's burning .
OLD NICK: Give him one of those painkillers .
MA: I 've tried , he pukes them back up . Old Nick comes up close to Jack .
OLD NICK: I 'll get him something stronger .
MA: He 's only five ! Dehydrated , temperature this high , he could go into convulsions any minute .
OLD NICK: I 'll bring something tomorrow night .
MA: Tomorrow night ? You have to take him to the ER right now .
OLD NICK: Enough with the hysterics .
MA: I 'm begging you . Please !
MA: So Edmond pulls his friend 's body out of the bag and hides it , and he climbs into the bag , and lies supe still until the guards come . Jack nods , enjoying the familiar story .
JACK: Our bags are too small for being dead in .
MA: Rug 's going to be the bag , see ?
JACK: I do n't want to be dead .
MA: Pretending to be dead , that 's all . Wrapped up so Old Nick ca n't see that you 're alive . But not floppy this time . All stiff like a robot . And not a sound . And I 'll be in your head , talking to you all the time .
MA: It 's OK. You 'll wriggle free and jump out of the truck . You 'll -
JACK: Uh uh .
MA: Please Jack , try just for a minute .
JACK: Half a minute .
MA: OK .
JACK: Yeah .
JACK: I ca n't .
MA: Push , Jack .
JACK: Get me out .
JACK: I hate you .
MA: That 's OK . I brought you here to Room . I did n't mean to but I did , and I 've always been so glad . And now it 's my job to get you out .
JACK: Truck , wriggle out , Jump , Run -
MA: Wait till the truck slows down at the first stop sign - if you jump when it 's going fast you might -
JACK: Somebody , Run -
MA: Jump , Run , then shout to Somebody and show them the Note . Jack checks the for note in his pocket .
JACK: Who is Somebody ?
MA: Anybody - the first person you see .
JACK: An actual real person . Ma nods , worried by his lingering confusion .
MA: He 's not going to -
JACK: It 's in here so I do n't lose it . Beat
MA: You 're going to love it .
JACK: What ?
MA: The world . Living in the hammock house with your Grandma and Grandpa
JACK: And you .
MA: One evening as the sun went down and the jungle fire was burning , down the track came a hobo hikin ' , and he said `` Boys , I 'm not turning . I 'm headed for a land that 's fa away , beside the crystal fountains . So , come with me , we 'll go and see the Big -
MA: Where will you take him ?
MA: Now . I ca n't bear it .
OLD NICK: OK , OK .
DOUG: Boomer ! He pulls the dog away by the collar .
OLD NICK: It 's under control .
DOUG: She been in some kind of accident ? You want me to call someone ?
OLD NICK: I 'll take care of it .
DOUG: What 's that you got there , honey ?
CONTINUED: 36 CONTINUED 36
DOUG: I 've got your plates , mister ! K93 -
DOUG CONT'D: Hey ! Hey !
OFFICER PARKER: Hey there , I 'm Officer Parker . What 's your name ?
JACK: Jack .
OFFICER PARKER: Jackie ?
JACK: Jack .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: We have a disturbed female juvenile , possible domestic -
OFFICER PARKER: You must be freezing , Jack .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: That 's negative . White male , six feet , forties , fifties , beard , red pick-up , Ford , nineties F150 , maybe , no state partial plate K93 .
OFFICER PARKER: Do you have another name ? Jack ?
JACK: Ten .
OFFICER PARKER: You 're ten years old ?
JACK: Ten fingers .
OFFICER PARKER: No , I meant show me with you fingers how old you are .
JACK: I 'm five .
OFFICER PARKER: Five , great . And your address ?
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: Guess we should get onto Child Protection ?
OFFICER PARKER: Where do you sleep at night , Jack ? Where do you go to bed ?
JACK: In Wardrobe .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: In a wardrobe ?
OFFICER PARKER: You have a Mom , Jack ?
JACK: Ma .
OFFICER PARKER: Is that her real name , Jack ?
JACK: She used to be Joy .
OFFICER PARKER: Is there another name , after Joy . Jack struggles but ca n't remember ` Newsome ' .
JACK: Room .
OFFICER PARKER: What room ? Where 's the room ?
JACK: Not on any map .
OFFICER PARKER: The man with the truck , that you dad ? Ma 's boyfriend ? You know him ?
JACK: Old Nick .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: Speak up !
JACK: Old Nick . But that 's not his name .
OFFICER PARKER: Did this Nick guy hurt you ?
JACK: I bit me by accident . And the , the , the - He pats the ground to remember the word .
OFFICER PARKER: What 's that , Jack ?
JACK: A bit of Ma .
OFFICER PARKER: So , Jack ? You see anything ?
JACK: Everything .
OFFICER PARKER: No , but anything you recognise ? Your room , Jack , is it in a ungalow - all one level ? O stairs ? What 's outside the room ?
JACK: Space . The world .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: You reckon the kid 's on something ?
OFFICER PARKER: Jack , when you step out the door - Jack shakes his head anxiously .
JACK: We do n't know to open the door .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: My money 's on some kind of cult . The tooth , the long hair
OFFICER PARKER: Is there daylight in your room ? Jack nods .
JACK: Zero .
OFFICER PARKER: Then how does the sun come in ?
JACK: Through Skylight .
OFFICER PARKER: Excellent . Check the satellite . Sounds like his mother 's being held in a house with a skylight .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: Needle in a haystack
OFFICER PARKER: OK .
JACK: It 's a
OFFICER PARKER: Yeah ?
JACK: It 's a
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: Might get more out of him when he 's had some sleep .
OFFICER PARKER: Tom , give me a break .
JACK: Room 's a a shed .
OFFICER PARKER: A shed ! You 're doing great , Jack . Now , after you got in the truck - Jack shakes his head .
JACK: He putted me - I was n't meant to be alive .
OFFICER PARKER: What made you jump out of the truck , Jack ?
JACK: Ma said in my head . He taps it .
OFFICER PARKER: What did she say , exactly ?
JACK: Jump when it Slows Down . But I could n't , I was all He 's remembering being trapped in the rug .
OFFICER PARKER: So what did you do ?
JACK: The third time , I got banged .
OFFICER PARKER: The third time of what ?
JACK: The third slow , everything went sideways - - and then it stopped and I jumped and -
OFFICER PARKER: Stay with the boy .
OFFICER GRABOWSKI: You OK , kid ?
JACK: Can we go to Bed now ?
MA: We can do anything . They 'll find us somewhere to sleep soon .
JACK: No , but Bed . In Room .
JACK: Ma .
JACK: Ma . Ma . She begins to wake .
MA: Good morning sleepy head . I was waiting so long for you to wake I fell back asleep .
JACK: Is this another planet ?
MA: Same one , just a different bit . It 's a room - A bedroom in a hospital . Jack thinks about this .
JACK: Are we sick for real or pretend ?
MA: We 're not sick . We 're the opposite of sick . Beat .
JACK: How long are we staying ?
MA: Not long . Grandma saw us last night and she 'll take us when they say we 're OK .
JACK: And Grandpa .
MA: He was away at work but he 's getting on a plane to come home .
JACK: I wetted the bed before . I 'm sorry .
MA: That 's OK .
JACK: What 's that ?
MA: Do you like it ? There 's one fo you , too .
JACK: That 's waste .
MA: We 'll get new ones .
JACK: For Sunday Treat ?
MA: There are going to be so many treats , not just on Sundays . Jack looks around .
JACK: Where 's the bath .
MA: It 's a shower instead . Splashier .
JACK: Ma , will he find us .
MA: No , he will never , ever come again .
JACK: Bath before Bed .
MA: What ?
JACK: Bath before Bed , that 's the rule .
MA: There are n't any rules now , Jack . We can do what we like ! Jack is unnerved by all this .
JACK: Are you hurting ?
JACK: The door 's ticking .
DR. MITTAL: Hello there , I hear we 're all woken up .
MA: That 's right . Jack 's buries his head in .
DR. MITTAL: Hi there , Jack . I 'm Dr. Mittal . You were asleep when I cam in this morning . Jack wo n't make eye contact .
MA: Is that really necessary ?
DR. MITTAL: Lots of germs in the air to get used to . My colleague has prescribed these for the pain in your wrist until we can schedule a surgery . And something to help you sleep .
MA: OK . Thanks . Try it , it 's delicioso . Jack 's not convinced .
DR. MITTAL: Have you thought any more about what we discussed this morning ?
MA: Thanks for the offer but we 're going to go home .
DR. MITTAL: You know my view . After what you 've experienced , and to assess Jack properly . And just to soften the transition -
MA: Nothing happened to Jack .
DR. MITTAL: I understand , but even at a cognitive-sensory level - depth perception , auditory processing
MA: But he 's OK , right ?
DR. MITTAL: The most important thing you did was to get him out while he 's still plastic .
JACK: I 'm not plastic .
DR. MITTAL: What 's that , Jack .
MA: He says he 's real , not plastic . Mittal laughs .
DR. MITTAL: I ca n't argue with that , Jack . Real and very brave .
DR. MITTAL: We can talk about this again later . It sounds like you have more important things to do right now .
MA: Dad !
ROBERT: My darling .
NANCY: We could n't wait any longer .
MA: Jack , Jack it 's OK . This is you Grandma and Grandpa .
NANCY: Hello , Jack . Jack hides his face .
MA: Leave them , Jack , you 'll get used to them . Pause .
ROBERT: You 're here .
MA: So , what 's in Michigan ? Robert and Nancy exchange glances .
ROBERT: I 'm working out of the Grand Rapids office . Beat .
NANCY: Oh , Sweetie There have been a lot of changes in our lives since you 've been gone . Your dad and I losing you , was very hard on us . And he and I
ROBERT: We had to go our different ways . It was what we had to do .
MA: Whoa . This is not what I thought was happening .
NANCY: Your father felt we had to accept that you were
ROBERT: People deal with things in thei own way .
NANCY: I knew you 'd come home one day . They sit .
MA: Wow .
NANCY: I 'm so sorry , I did n't know how to tell you . They said we should talk to you together . Nancy is upset .
ROBERT: The Doctor mentioned this othe place where they could help you , ecause it 's hard , you know , to suddenly -
MA: He has no idea what we 've been through . Nothing could compare to that . Robert and Nancy sit with this .
NANCY: Of course not .
ROBERT: Leo . Beat .
MA: OK , this is a lot of stuff .
NANCY: Yes it is . Nancy is upset .
ROBERT: Leo 's a good guy . Your mother is much happier . It 's a good thing . Jack tugs at Ma .
MA: What , Jack ?
JACK: It 's too big here .
MA: It 's OK .
JACK: I want some .
ROBERT: What .. what 's he doing ?
MA: Just wait a moment . We 'll go inside in a moment . Nancy tries to calm her .
NANCY: It 's OK .
MA: I need to go back now , anyway . There are things we need to do inside .
NEWS ANCHOR: And now to developments in the case of the young woman , believed to be Joy Newsome , who was rescued last night , along with her child , from a garden shed having allegedly been held captive there for over seven years . We are getting unconfirmed reports that an individual has just been arrested , after what one witness has called a 'short stand-off ' at a house on the east side . Footage of Old Nick 's house . The room phone starts to ring . Ma picks up .
MA: I know , I 'm watching it right now . I ca n't believe it . I just want to e home now .
MA: Wait , wait a second . She switches off the set .
DR. MITTAL: You have your schedule of appointments , and your medications . Please completely finish the course of antibiotics .
MA: I understand .
DR. MITTAL: You have my number .
MA: Got it .
DR. MITTAL: If you need anything , if you just want to talk , you use it , alright ? Ma nods .
MA: Jesus . Ma tidies her hair .
RESIDENT AGENT: Ready for this ?
MA: Ready ?
JACK: Steady - go .
REPORTER 1: Joy ! Joy ! Any message for your well- wishers ? What 's it like to be home ?
REPORTER 2: Jack ! Jack ! Look this way .
REPORTER 3: Jack ! How do you like the world so far ?
RESIDENT AGENT: You 're doing great .
REPORTER 2: Joy ! What do you say to you captor ?
LAWYER: At this time excuse me , please at this time I will read a ief statement from the family after which I would ask you to espect their privacy . I 'm sure you can understand this is a very - Nancy , Ma and Jack step into
RESIDENT AGENT: The back of the property is well screened , and we 've added to that where necessary , so if you keep these drapes closed you 'll have complete privacy . We 'll be right outside if there 's anything at all you need .
NANCY: Thank you . Thank you so much .
LEO: Welcome home , honey . I 'm very very happy to see you .
MA: Leo .
NANCY: Jack , this is Leo .
LEO: Hey there , sport .
NANCY: People have been so kind . We wo n't use it all . Jack , would you like a drink ? Jack sticks close to Ma .
MA: Jack , Grandma 's asking if you 'd like something to drink . Jack pulls her down to whisper in her ear .
LEO: Coming right up .
JACK: What are they for ?
MA: They 're from people saying they 're happy that we 're safe and back home .
JACK: What people ?
MA: Just people .
JACK: Where 's ice cream in the hammock ?
MA: Mom , what have you done with the hammock ?
NANCY: I guess it must be in the basement .
LEO: Just in case .
MA: A dog ?
NANCY: Oh . It 's Leo 's dog , Seamus .
MA: You do n't like dogs .
NANCY: Oh no . I 've come to love Seamus . He 's won me over .
LEO: He 's on furlough at the moment , with a pal of mine out of town . Living the country life .
NANCY: The hospital said to avoid pets , until your immunity is back up and there 's so much to take in .
LEO: I told him he was a health hazard . Got ta sling your hook , buddy . He did n't take it too well .
NANCY: You OK ? He rubs his face , nods .
ROBERT: Lawyer says they are expecting a plea but ca n't rule out a trial . He wants to get into everything , I said it could wait .
NANCY: Good .
ROBERT: He thinks most of the press will move on in a couple days . I made it clear there 'd be no more contact , statements . To respect the family . Robert has to hide his face .
LEO: Can I get you a drink , Bob ?
ROBERT: Thank you , yes . I 'd like that very much . Scotch whatever you have .
LEO: Sure .
NANCY: Is there anything you 'd like , o like to do ?
MA: Just rest .
NANCY: Sure .
MA: Jack says that 's where his ` strong ' is .
NANCY: Ah ha .
MA: You did n't know I could play piano . Guess this tune
JACK: How long do we have to stay here ? She takes out her bag of meds .
MA: We live here now .
JACK: Ice cream hurts .
LEO: You got a brain freeze there , Jack ?
MA: Eat it slower .
ROBERT: I 'm going to turn in . Beat .
MA: Is there something wrong ?
ROBERT: No .
MA: Why are you in such a hurry ?
ROBERT: It 's been a long day . Beat .
MA: You have n't said one word to Jack .
NANCY: Joy . Robert looks haunted , torn .
ROBERT: We do n't have to talk about this now .
NANCY: My God .
MA: Yes we do . Look at him . Robert ca n't . Ma 's anger deserts her .
NANCY: Robert .
MA: Please .
ROBERT: I ca n't , I ca n't I 'm sorry .
MA: He 's my baby .
ROBERT: What that bastard did to you .
LEO: Come on , Bob . Let 's all just give this a little time . Ma stands up .
MA: Come on , Jack . Time for bed . As Ma pulls Jack out of the room .
ROBERT: I 'm so sorry . I should n't be here .
JACK: Where 's Grandpa . Beat .
NANCY: He had to go home for a while .
MA: Hey Jack , you want play with you new toys ? Jack shakes his head .
LAWYER: Thank you . Automatic door .
NANCY: Yes .
LAWYER: Let me take my shoes off here .
CONTINUED: 62A CONTINUED 62A
LAWYER: The other thing we need to talk about is coming up with some kind of media strategy . I know you 're not thinking about that right now . But there 's a lot to decide about in that category .
NANCY: I do n't think we 're ready fo talking yet . Not like that .
LAWYER: There are certain to be expenses going forward and a prime time interview , one prime time interview , means a lot of money . Donations are coming - and I 'll need some account details , bette in yours than mine , right ? - but it would n't amount to enough for , you know , open ended support . Beat .
MA: Jack , you have all those colors . Why do n't you use them . You could draw a picture of Jack the giant slayer , with every color . Jack keeps drawing .
LEO: Thank you again .
LEO: Gee , am I hungry . He pads into the kitchen .
JACK: You have a dog ?
LEO: I do . Named Seamus . He 's very small . Not very smart . You 'll have to meet him sometime . He 'll shake your hand .
JACK: I had a dog called Lucky . But he 's not real .
LEO: Yeah ?
JACK: In Room . Leo takes this in .
LEO: You ever play catch , Jack ?
JACK: I hate shoes .
LEO: I hear what you 're saying , but
NEIGHBOR BOY: Hey .
LEO: No kidding . It 's a nice ball , is n't it ?
NEIGHBOR BOY: I got mine for my birthday .
LEO: Fantastic . You hear that , Jack ? He got this same ball for his irthday .
NEIGHBOR BOY: Why 's he wearing those glasses .
LEO: He 's got sore eyes .
NEIGHBOR BOY: Did you get that ball for you irthday ? Jack shakes his head
JACK: I got a truck but it broke and Ma got me a cake .
NEIGHBOR BOY: A cake 's not a present .
JACK: Yes it is .
NEIGHBOR BOY: That 's weird . A cake 's just something to eat . No way is it a present .
JACK: Ma . Ma .
MA: I already gave all this information to the last person . What , Jack ?
JACK: Is a cake a present ?
MA: What ? She turns away , deep in her own frustration .
LEO: I 'm so sorry . It was overcast .
MA: He has never had any UV . This is serious stuff , OK ?
JACK: You ?
MA: Me and Stacy Benton and Heathe Noel and Laura Sullivan . That 's how people did their hair . We were the elay team . I was the anchor . I was fast . We did track together .
JACK: Real track ?
MA: Real track . On a field . We were fast . Best in the district . You know what happened to them ?
JACK: No .
MA: Exactly . Nothing . They just lived and nothing happened . Look
JACK: Show me more when you were young .
MA: No . I do n't want to see any more . I do n't want you to look at any more ight now . Let 's just be quiet fo while . Okey dokey ?
JACK: Ma ?
LEO: Not at all , we 'll all sleep better .
LAWYER: It 's a good day .
NANCY: Thank God .
JACK: You were gone !
MA: Do you want to hear something eally good ? In the background Leo ends the call .
JACK: You were gone .
MA: Hey listen . Old Nick is going to jail for a really long time .
JACK: I know Old Nick is in jail .
MA: But now he 'll be there for ever and ever . And I do n't have to see him ever again or talk to the judge o any of those scary things . Is n't that great ? Jack nods , not really understanding .
JACK: What are you doing ?
MA: I 'm talking to people . She keeps texting , not explaining further .
JACK: Why do you look like that ?
MA: I 'm dressed to go out , that 's all .
JACK: I do n't like it .
MA: It 's just some clothes and makeup .
NANCY: Maybe it 's too much for him right now .
MA: It 's not too much for me . I need to go out , get some air . Ma starts to apply sunscreen to Jack .
NANCY: You do n't have to do it so soon . You could wait and we could go together .
MA: Oh my God !
LAURA: Oh my God ! The girls hug .
MA: I know . I know .
LAURA: I 've missed you so much . I ca n't elieve you 're actually here . And look at Jack ! What a sweetheart ! He is so cute ! Ma gets into the passenger seat .
MA: This is too weird , sitting in this car right now .
LAURA: You are such an amazing person , Joy . I have thought about you so much .
MA: I 'm happy , too . And a little freaked out .
LAURA: You just sit back . Relax . We 'll take it nice and slow .
MA: I always liked her even though we never really hung out .
LAURA: She liked you too . Your Mom was very popular in school .
MA: That 's actually not true .
LAURA: If you were n't popular , I do n't know who was .
MA: Susan Torrey .
LAURA: That 's true .
MA: Who was that ?
LAURA: Just someone I met at work . Not serious .
MA: What work do you do .
LAURA: Real estate . I mean I graduated Environmental Studies and I 'm still super passionate about that - like what we 're doing to this planet , ut the whole property thing is exploding .
MA: Jack . This way . Just hold my hand .
JACK: Ma , it 's Dylan !
MA: You ca n't take that , Jack .
JACK: Why ?
MA: It does n't belong to you .
JACK: Ma ! Ma ! She reappears from behind a rack .
MA: I 'm here . OK ? Just calm down .
JACK: I was scared !
MA: Do n't be . This is normal . This is what people do .
JACK: I do n't like it !
MA: Remember your superpowers , alright , have fun . And no whining , OK ? A clerk appears .
CLERK: Hi , there . Anything I can help you with ?
MA: I need some some shoes .
CLERK: Great . Shoes are all over there . Just let me know if you need anything else , okay ?
MA: I do n't know .
JACK: Can we get Dylan now ?
MA: Please , Jack .
LAURA: These ones are kind of cute .
MA: No . I definitely do n't want any of these . I 'd never wear these .
JACK: I want Dylan . You said .
MA: I said if you were good .
LAURA: I could run and get it for him .
MA: No . I said no , so he has to understand . They pass a Cinnabon outlet .
JACK: No .
MA: Cinnabon is good . You might like it .
LAURA: I think we should just go .
JACK: I want Dylan . I want Dylan now.You said .
MA: You are being really naughty Jack . Jack starts into a full on tantrum .
TEENAGER: Hey , are you that kid from the TV .
MA: Get the fuck away from him . Get the fuck away .
LAURA: Oh my God . Oh . My . God .
MA: Shit , shit , shit . Those assholes .
LAURA: Buckle up , Jack , all right ?
JACK: I I
MA: Jesus Christ . Just buckle it , all ight ?
JACK: I do n't like you in the world !
MA: Well maybe I do n't like you either ! Laura pauses , Ma glowers .
LEO: Oh , you got me on that one .
NANCY: You guys want to start again ?
NANCY: I 'm sorry . Dr. Mittal stands .
DR. MITTAL: OK. Let her rest . I 'll see you again next week , Jack .
MA: Jack . Please turn that off . Jack keeps watching .
JACK: I want to watch !
MA: Jack ! Please . Please . I 'm begging you , please turn that off .
MA: Look at all these toys . Most kids would love that stuff . You 've arely even looked at them .
JACK: I do n't want to .
MA: Come on , Jack .
NANCY: He 's fine .
MA: I do n't give him my phone so please do n't give him yours .
NANCY: OK .
MA: I just want him to connect to something . You know ?
NANCY: He 's really doing fine .
MA: I 'm sorry , I do n't know what 's happening to me . I ca n't feel anything . Even for
NANCY: Joy , please .
MA: Do n't judge me . You have no right . People walk around like the world is fine and normal but it 's not . Nancy tries to put her hand on Ma 's arm .
NANCY: You just need to rest .
MA: No I do n't ! That 's not what I need .
NANCY: That 's what the Doctor
MA: No ! That 's not what he said . You do n't know what he said . That 's confidential and you do n't even know . Just forget it .
NANCY: I feel like you 're impossible to talk to right now .
MA: Oh , I 'm sorry !
NANCY: No , you 're not sorry .
MA: You think you know what 's in my head . Trust me , you could n't handle it .
NANCY: Tell me and see . I 've asked you .
MA: So you 're seeing that every time you look at me ? Great .
NANCY: You 're my daughter , that 's what I 'll see .
MA: Yeah , well you seemed to get on OK without me .
NANCY: How can you say that ? You think you 're the only one whose life was destroyed ?
MA: Actually , that 's exactly what I think .
NANCY: How would you feel if somebody took Jack from you ?
MA: Do n't you ever tell me how to look after my son . I 'm sorry if I 'm not ` nice ' enough for you . Maybe if you had n't been in my head saying ` be nice ' that day I would n't have gone to help him . Nancy is horrified .
NANCY: I 'm sorry , Jack .
MA: Come here , Jack .
NANCY: Time for you to go upstairs , Jack . Remember what your Mom said .
HOSTESS: You are an amazing , inspiring , courageous , beautiful young woman .
MA: Thank you . Thank you so much . I hope they all know how much thei thoughts and prayers have meant the last few weeks . To our whole family . Jack is enthralled .
HOSTESS: And Jack . Your son . By all accounts he is a normal , high-functioning , happy little boy . Amazing .
MA: He is . He 's my life . I never could have survived without him .
HOSTESS: You made life as normal and nurturing as you could given the environment . You gave him a childhood . How did you manage to do that ?
MA: I I did n't think about it . I did n't plan it . When I found out I was pregnant with Jack , it just seemed like a terrible joke . You know ? To bring someone into that place , it just seemed so wrong . I was in a very scary frame of mind . I thought the devil was controlling my life . In a way he was . Ma makes an effort to control her emotions .
HOSTESS: Are you okay ?
LAWYER: I 'm getting the feeling my client needs to -
HOSTESS: Just a minute , please .
MA: Then , everything was different once Jack came , because he was so eautiful and I had to keep him safe . Ma , calmer , pulling herself together .
HOSTESS: When he 's older will you talk to him about his father .
MA: Jack 's not his .
HOSTESS: I beg your pardon , are you -
MA: In this whole story , that 's the shocking detail ?
HOSTESS: Did it ever occur to you to ask your captor to take Jack away ?
MA: Away ?
HOSTESS: To leave him outside a hospital , say , so he 'd be found .
MA: Why would I -
JACK: Ma ?
LEO: He 's on . He 's waiting .
JACK: Ma ? She struggles to get control of her voice .
NEIGHBOR: Been shopping .
NANCY: Yes we have . We 're making cupcakes .
JACK: Sure . I did it before . In Room .
NANCY: Did you ? Wow . What else did you do there .
JACK: Lots of things . I miss it sometimes .
NANCY: Was n't it awfully small . Jack shakes his head .
NANCY: OK .
JACK: It was small in wardrobe .
NANCY: What did you do in wardrobe ?
JACK: Sleep . When Old Nick came . Beat .
NANCY: I know . She just needs to be on he own a little while . We hear the front door closing .
LEO: Jack , meet Seamus . Would you like to pet him ?
JACK: I could just go in and tell he about Seamus . Only for a minute . O I could just look at her .
LEO: Come on , let 's get this guy some air after being all stuffed up in the car .
JACK: Grandma .
NANCY: Yes ?
JACK: I need the scissors .
NANCY: What for ?
JACK: For cutting my hair .
NANCY: You really want to do that ?
JACK: I want to send it to Ma .
NANCY: Why ?
JACK: She needs my strong more than me . So I want to send it to her . Or you could take it to her . Nancy is moved .
NANCY: I can help you if you 'd like .
JACK: That would be great .
NANCY: Okay . Let 's do this right . I 've wanted to cut that hair a very long time .
JACK: You think this will work ? Can my strong be her strong too ? I 'm not eally sure if it works that way .
NANCY: Of course it does . We all help each other stay strong . No one is strong alone . You and your mom , you help each other through , do n't you ?
JACK: Yes .
NANCY: And you and me . And you and Leo . And Leo and me . We all have the same strong .
JACK: I guess we do .
NANCY: Ok , here goes .
JACK: I love you , Grandma .
NANCY: I love you , Jack .
MA: I 'm sorry , Jack .
JACK: That 's OK . He thinks .
MA: I promise .
JACK: Are you better now ?
MA: Starting to be .
JACK: Can I ?
MA: Sorry . There 's none left .
JACK: OK .
MA: I 'm not a good enough Ma .
JACK: But you 're Ma .
MA: I am .
JACK: I 'm going to play with Aaron now . He 's my friend . Ma hugs him hard before he leaves .
MA: Definitely . Making new friends . Pause .
JACK: Can we go back to Room ? Ma looks concerned .
OFFICER PARKER: Follow me , guys .
JACK: Dylan ! Ma heads for the shed , Jack right behind her .
MA: Taken away for evidence . Proof that we were here .
JACK: It 's because Door 's open .
MA: What ?
JACK: It ca n't really be Room if Door 's open .
MA: Do you - would you like it closed ? Jack shakes his head .
JACK: Bye-bye .
MA: Jack -
JACK: Bye-bye . Say bye-bye to Room . Ma says it but on mute .
SARA: Hi . Sara Matthews .
GIRL: Sorry ! Bad driver .
BEAT: I 'm Tracy .
SARA: Sara .
BEAT: Hello ?
SARA: Everything 's great .
BEAT: No , she 's not here yet so I got to choose my side of the room . She tears a tab off the flyer .
TRACY: Psi U . 's throwing a bash . Let 's go .
SARA: Psi U. ?
TRACY: They 're a frat . Beer guys
SARA: I do n't know I might just hang and wait for my roommate .
BOUNCER: If you want beer , I 'll need ID 's .
TRACY: For a frat party ? ! Seriously ?
KIM: I do n't drink anyway . Tracy looks at her , mouth agape .
BOUNCER: There 's punch and non-alcoholic eer over there
TRACY: Come on , just us . We wo n't tell . The bouncer is tempted but not budging .
BOUNCER: Honestly , I 'm just a pledge . They 'll kick me out . She stomps by him .
TRACY: Wuss .
SARA: What 's the point ?
TRACY: Why are n't you dancing ?
SARA: To this ?
TRACY: They 're not that bad .
SARA: Crap .
KIM: She was getting more punch .
SARA: Uh oh .
SHOUTS: Tracy .
LOUDER: Tracy . Do n't .
STEPHEN: Damn !
ANNOYED: I have to go clean this up . She turns .
STEPHEN: Looks like my plan backfired . Sara turns back towards him .
SARA: What plan ?
STEPHEN: To spill beer on you so I can start a conversation .
SARA: You spilled beer on me purposely ?
NODS: You pissed ?
SARA: I 'll get over it . He laughs , making her smile .
STEPHEN: Come on .
SARA: It 's pretty good . She drinks some more .
STEPHEN: Exactly .
SARA: Sara .
STEPHEN: Twenty-one .
SARA: Old man .
STEPHEN: Tell me about it . My back is killing me .
SARA: Ugh . You 're in this frat ?
SLURS: Did you try the punch ? It 's pretty good .
SARA: What happened to Tracy ? Kim shrugs .
KIM: I 'm the worst roommate ever .
STEPHEN: Do you want to look for you friend ? Sara looks at him sweetly . Nods .
BUTTS IN: I got her .
STEPHEN: Guess that would be me .
SARA: Who 's got you ?
SMIRKS: Apparently God . Sara rolls her eyes .
KIM: Thanks Sara .
SARA: No problem .
KIM: You want us to wait ?
STEPHEN: You know , I 'm going to be pulling kitchen duty all week for helping girls leave a frat party . It 's like opposite everything we stand for .
SAEA: Does that make it worth it ?
STEPHEN: Honestly , no . She laughs out loud .
SARA: Do you want to come up ?
DEEP BREATH: More than I can tell you , but that would n't be fair .
STEPHEN: Keep it till next time .
SARA: Thanks again . For everything .
BEAT: And , sorry about kitchen duty .
SARA: Ow !
GIRL: Hi .
SARA: Who are you ? !
GIRL: Rebecca . Your roommate . Sara calms , catching on .
SARA: What are you doing ?
REBECCA: Taking your picture .
SARA: Why ? Rebecca shrugs . Sara grabs her stomach .
WHISPERS: Rebecca ?
REBECCA: Hey Sara .
SARA: Right Starts with a `` T '' ?
REBECCA: Close . Rebecca .
SARA: Thanks . Rebecca smiles , genuinely touched .
SUDDENLY PANICKED: I did n't throw up on you , did I ?
LAUGHS: No . You made it to the bathroom .
SARA: Did you do those ? Rebecca nods .
REBECCA: I just like capturing my moods .
SARA: Rebecca did you take my picture last night ?
LAUGHING: Yeah . It 's just something I do . Fo my drawings .
BEAT: C'mon , let 's hit the bookstore . The walk will help your head . Sara rolls over , groaning .
SARA: It 's too damn early for me .
REBECCA: It 's three in the afternoon . Sara 's eyes bug out .
SARA: Holy shit !
GIRL: So what do we do ? Sara looks her over . Checks out her outfit .
SARA: Nice bag . Dior ?
FLATTERED: Yeah . Sara snatches the book .
SARA: I 'm on financial aid .
ANNOYED: Jason . What are you doing ?
SARA: I told you not to do this .
SNAPS: But you did n't come out here , emember . That 's the problem .
QUIETER: I 've got ta go . Sara hangs up . She exhales , flustered .
REBECCA: That did n't sound good . Boyfriend ?
SARA: Ex . Off Rebecca 's confused look .
BEAT: We both applied to Brown . I got in ; he got wait-listed . I stuck to ou agreement and we both committed here . Then two weeks agoa spot opened up at Brown and..
REBECCA: No ? ! He took it ? What an asshole .
SARA: Yep .
REBECCA: Do you miss him ?
SARA: Sometimes I think I do .
REBECCA: It 's hard to let go .
SMILES: Believe me , I know . But , you 're in college now . A girl 's got ta move on .
SARA: Oh my God .
REBECCA: What ?
SARA: I am so jealous .
REBECCA: I know I 've got a lot of clothes . Mind if I put some on your side ?
SARA: No problem .
REBECCA: Borrow anything you want . Really . I have n't worn half of them .
SARA: Jesus , some of these I 've only eve seen in Vogue .
REBECCA: My parents idea of bonding is to turn me loose in Beverly Hills with a Platinum card .
SARA: Oh , you here ?
REBECCA: Pasadena . Off Sara 's confused look .
SARA: That 's cool . You can go home on weekends . Free laundry . Free meals .
REBECCA: Not gon na happen . Sara gives her a puzzled stare .
SARA: Can I take a look ?
REBECCA: No .
SMILES: I would n't want to show you anything unless it was perfect .
SMILES BACK: Sure .
REBECCA: I thought you were a design major . Why are you taking Calc and psychology ? The girls get up with their trays .
SARA: I am . I want to be well-rounded . And they 're requirements .
REBECCA: Hi .
TRACY: RRRRRREBECCA . How formal . What can we call you ?
KIM: How 'bout Reba ?
SARA: I like Becca . Tracy 's grimace vetoes that one , too .
TRACY: How 'bout Becky ?
SARA: Becky 's good . The girls all turn to Rebecca for approval .
REBECCA: I like Rebecca . Buzzkill .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: So here we are . Design 101 . And each one of you is asking yourself the same question Who is this guy ? Why should I turn off my Blackberry and pay attention to him ? Mild laughter from the class .
BEAT: I can teach you those principles . He lets the power of his words sink in .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: The journey to the catwalks of New York Paris Tokyo starts ight here , in this room . And all you have to do is open your minds . Man , she wants in .
SARA: Professor Roberts ? He flashes a disarming smile .
BEAT: I absolutely must take this class .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I 'm afraid we 're full . But do n't worry Intro Design has three other sections .
SARA: But you 're not teaching them . I want to learn from the best . He smiles at her .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: What 's your name ?
SARA: Sara Matthews .
BEAT: I brought a request form .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Tell me , Sara why should I sign your request form when I 've turned down a dozen others ? Would that be fair ? Sara 's face falls . A long beat .
SARA: No , I guess it would n't . Thanks anyway .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: But
SHE TURNS: Who said life was fair ? You happen to have two things I ca n't teach
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Style . And Desire .
SARA: Hey . Rebecca removes her earbud .
REBECCA: I do n't have a Facebook page .
SARA: Myspace ?
REBECCA: Nope . I do n't spend a lot of time
SARA: Come here .
REBECCA: Who 's she ?
SARA: Irene . She graduated from the Art Institute out here last year .
SARA: A design apprentice for Marc Jacobs . Hey , check out these posts .
REBECCA: Okay , okay . I 'll get one .
TRACY: Cancel those library plans . Guess who made the guest list at Rebar ?
BEAT: You guys in ? I trust you have fake IDs ?
SARA: Of course .
REBECCA: I do n't .
TRACY: Yes you do . Thanks to my badass self .
REBECCA: I 'll pass . Clubs really are n't my scene .
TRACY: How great is this ? No parents . No curfews .
SARA: No shit ! They clink their empty glasses in a toast .
TRACY: Too bad Rebecca blew us off . Talk about the life of the party .
SARA: Do n't be mean .
TRACY: I 'm just saying .
SARA: She 's just a little hard to get to know .
TRACY: Yeah right
SARA: What do you think ?
TRACY: I think
SARA: Tracy ?
LOUD: Tracy .
REBECCA: Hello ?
RICK: Just doing my job .
REBECCA: All done .
RICK: You have a little something . No , she does n't .
REBECCA: Sorry .
RICK: You spoiled c-
REBECCA: Pussy .
SARA: Nice car .
REBECCA: Thanks .
BEAT: So , where 's Tracy ?
SARA: No idea , I could n't find her .
REBECCA: As long as I 'm here you hungry ?
SARA: Starved .
REBECCA: I ca n't believe she ran out on you .
SARA: I know . Thanks for coming . Rebecca looks up from the menu .
REBECCA: Tracy had her shot tonight . Tomorrow you 're all mine . I 'll show you the big city.. .the right way . And I promise I wo n't abandon you . Deal ? Sara smiles .
SARA: Deal .
REBECCA: These are the modern pieces . A little wilder than the old stuff .
SARA: Okay , I have no idea what this is supposed to be .
LAUGHING: Even I do n't get that one . Come on , I want to show you something .
REBECCA: This is my favorite .
SARA: Amazing . I love it .
REBECCA: No graffiti in Des Moines ?
SARA: Sure . `` Bobby loves Jenny . Chrissy loves Rick . '' Nothing like this . Rebecca pulls out her camera .
REBECCA: Hey , smile .
SARA: Both of us .
REBECCA: Now that 's one `` art form '' I do n't get . Needles into skin ? No thanks .
SARA: I have a tattoo .
REBECCA: Really ?
SARA: My older sister . She died when I was nine .
REBECCA: Oh , I 'm sorry .
SARA: This keeps her with me .
REBECCA: I always wanted a sister .
SARA: Guess who I 'm listing as my favorite artist on my Facebook page ?
BEAT: Richard Prince .
LAUGHING: Your favorite movie is `` Coyote Ugly '' ?
SARA: Do n't laugh . It 's about a small town girl making it in the big city .
REBECCA: Is n't every movie ? ! They both laugh .
SARA: Hey there .
TAKEN ABACK: Wow .
REBECCA: I thought you 'd like it .
SARA: I know , I know . It 's stupid , and I 've just broken about forty different dorm rules , and I should just take it to a shelter
BEAT: What do you want to name it ? Sara 's face lights up . She smiles gratefully .
SARA: Really ?
REBECCA: It 'll be our secret . Just between us .
SARA: I named her in the elevator . Cuddles .
REBECCA: Sorry . I was just trying it on .
SARA: This was my sister 's .
REBECCA: Oh .
SARA: You can borrow anything of mine . Except for this . Okay ? It 's the only thing I kept of hers .
REBECCA: I 'm really sorry .
SARA: It 's okay . You did n't know .
REBECCA: Were you two close ?
SARA: Yeah . You 're the first roommate I 've had since she died . So , it feels a little odd .
REBECCA: In a good way or a bad way ? Sara smiles .
SARA: A good way .
TO CUSTOMER: You wanted a mocha smoothie , right ? O.K . Do you know what 's in that ?
STEPHEN: This seems like a pattern .
SARA: Just because I kissed you does n't mean I 'll let you cut in line .
STEPHEN: So what does it mean ?
SARA: I.. dunno . I 'm still having flashbacks from the last one . Sara laughs .
STEPHEN: You know what ? How about if I use you as my excuse not to go .
TRACY: Hey .
SARA: Hey .
TRACY: Psi U. tonight ?
SARA: So you can ditch me again ?
TRACY: Sara the guy had a Porsche . And a hot tub .
SARA: That 's your apology ? Tracy jumps up and walks over .
TRACY: What I meant to say is I 'm sorry I totally screwed up .
SARA: I forgive you .
DRAMA BUILDING: Someone has a date .
SARA: You look nice .
EXCITED: Thanks . Richard Prince is having a showing . I bought two tickets .
BEAT: Since he 's your favorite artist
SARA: Actually , I sort of have a date ?
SARA: You know , I could reschedule .
REBECCA: You do n't have to .
SARA: I want to . On one condition
REBECCA: I love it , who 's the designer ?
SARA: What are you , a label whore ? ! Who cares I got it at a flea market and it looks great with the dress . Rebecca nods in agreement .
TRACY: Water . I need water .
SARA: Hey . How was the party ? Are you still the beer bong queen ?
TRACY: Listen something is up with you oommate .
SARA: What do you mean ?
TRACY: She was outside my room this morning .
SARA: Doing what ?
TRACY: Waiting for me . I opened my door and there she was . Just sitting there , staring . Like some psycho .
SARA: Are you sure ?
TRACY: You do n't believe me ?
SARA: No , it 's just why would she do that ?
TRACY: Why do n't you ask her ? I 've got ta goI 'll see ya later .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Contrary to popular opinion , beauty is not in the eye of the beholder . It 's in the hands of the designer .
SARA: Fashion 's something you can buy , ut style you either have or you do n't .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Exactly . All the money in the world ca n't buy you style .
SARA: But it can buy you a good stylist . The class chuckles . Professor Roberts smiles .
REBECCA: I 'm your roommate . Sara smiles and grabs a cup .
SARA: Thanks .
REBECCA: What ?
SARA: Yeah .
REBECCA: It 's more like she scared me . She was racing to the bathroom like she was gon na hurl . She almost knocked me over . A beat as Sara ponders it all . She smiles .
SARA: The girl does like to party . Anyway , I would n't worry about it .
IRENE: Finally .
SARA: I so want to be you when I grow up .
IRENE: Hell , I wan na be me when I grow up .
TO SARA: She 's going to be a star . Irene rolls her eyes .
IRENE: You know , your dad left me fou messages last week . Making sure I 'm looking out for his baby .
SARA: Oh god . I hope you told him I 'm closing down the library every night .
IRENE: I told him I have n't seen you . And that for all I know you 're a crack ho by now . Even the model laughs .
SARA: Perfect .
STEPHEN: I have n't seen you around too much since you blew me off for dinner .
SARA: Sorry again . Actually , how about dinner tonight ?
STEPHEN: Hellllo . I 'm studying . She takes his book . He 's on page two .
SARA: Page two ? Busted !
STEPHEN: Yeah , but it 's really dense . Off Sara 's smile .
KIM: How 's it goin ?
TRACY: Hey .
REBECCA: So Sara thinks I 'm weird ? Let me tell you what I think . I think you 're a little whore , and a bad influence on her . And I think that if you tell anyone about what I 'm about to do you 'll regret it .
STEPHEN: I 'm going to flunk my test tomorrow , thanks to you .
SARA: Then let 's make sure it was worth it . She gives him a slow , lingering kiss .
STEPHEN: Duh , joke 's on you . I was going to flunk anyway . She smiles .
SARA: Anytime .
REBECCA: Where were you ?
SARA: Oh , hi .
REBECCA: I kept calling and calling .
SARA: Oh . I turned my cell off at the library and forgot to turn it back on .
FRAZZLED: Rebecca this is Stephen .
REBECCA: I 'm going to bed now . I 'm glad you 're okay .
STEPHEN: You got a curfew ?
SARA: Well , she 's rightI shoulda called .
REBECCA: Sara
SHE TURNS: Last night . I was just worried about you .
SARA: You do n't need to worry about me . I can take care of myself . Okay ? Rebecca slowly nods .
REBECCA: Sara . We 're good , right ? A beat . Sara nods and smiles .
SARA: I 'm already her best friend ?
STEPHEN: That 's a little sad .
SARA: Stop . But the look on her face says she agrees .
STEPHEN: Maybe she REALLY likes youif you know what I mean . She looks at him quizzically .
SARA: I do n't .
REBECCA: Stephen .
STEPHEN: Shit , wrong aisle .
SARA: The question is `` whose home ? ''
STEPHEN: Hmmm
SARA: I 'll make you a bet . I go back to your place or you take me home to my twin bed and roommate .
STEPHEN: What 's the bet ? She eyes the jungle gym .
SARA: Why 'd you agree ?
STEPHEN: Apparently , I 'm kind of a stupid guy .
SARA: Making me laugh is n't going to help you .
STEPHEN: So .
SARA: Solet 's go back to your place . She gives him a seductive grin .
REBECCA: Mmmm ?
WHISPERS: I miss you . She moves her hand across her stomach .
RELIEVED: You do ?
REBECCA: I want you , Jason .
STEPHEN: Just give me thirty seconds .
SARA: You 're kidding .
STEPHEN: Almost there .
WORRIED: Wait , goddamnit , that 's supposed to e my strip tease .
STEPHEN: I 'm just going to put your clothes ack on and make you strip again .
SARA: Who do we have here ? Hey guys ! Let me ask you . Bra or panties ? Bra ? Okay , okay . Just calm down .
STEPHEN: I knew you did n't have the guts .
REBECCA: Say my name , Jason . Until I tell you to stop .
STEPHEN: Sara
REBECCA: Do n't ever call me again .
SARA: Hey . Sorry I did n't call . I forgot my phone .
REBECCA: No problem .
SMILING: A nice girl does n't kiss and tell . They laugh . A nice , easy vibe between them .
SARA: You want to go get some breakfa
IRENE: What took you so long ?
SARA: I walked .
IRENE: You did n't !
SARA: It 's ten bucks for a cab and I 'm a student .
IRENE: Sara ! You ca n't just walk around downtown L.A. at night . This is not Des Moines .
SARA: Duh ?
IRENE: Seriously , listen to me . That 's why I own a gun . Sara 's shocked .
SARA: What ? !
IRENE: Absolutely ! Big cities are crawling with crazies .
SARA: Hey . Oh , Hi . Yeah , I 'm over at Irene 's . I meant to leave you a note . Uh huh , uh huh , oh ! That 's a good idea . Let me check , hold on . Sara covers the phone and turns to Irene .
TO IRENE: Do you like cats ?
IRENE: Yeah , why ?
SARA: We have to get rid of one .
IRENE: Ca n't . Travel too much . Poo thing would starve to death .
SARA: You 're right . No , she ca n't . Huh ? Oh I do n't know whenever I get there . Bye .
IRENE: Who was that ?
SARA: My roommate . More than a little overprotective .
IRENE: That 's no fun .
SARA: So , where is it ?
IRENE: What ?
SARA: You said you had a surprise for me ?
IRENE: Oh yeah . I went through my closet . There 's nothing here I 've worn in the past six months .
SARA: You 're kidding , all of these ? ! Oh no .
IRENE: What what ?
SARA: We have no closet space at the dorms . Rebecca 's already using half of mine .
IRENE: Oh my God , I just had the best idea .
SARA: What ?
IRENE: Why do n't you move in here with me ?
SARA: Seriously ?
IRENE: Yeah , I 'm never here . The place is huge . Ditch the roommate . And , the building allows pets .
SARA: Huh . Let me talk to Rebecca about it .
IRENE: Great .
BEAT: So , how 's Jason ? I really liked him .
SARA: We broke up .
IRENE: Yeah he sucked .
REBECCA: Hey . What 're those ?
SARA: Irene gave them to me . She had a lot more but we do n't have the oom .
REBECCA: Too bad she could n't take Cuddles , huh ?
SARA: Well , maybe that 's not a problem .
REBECCA: Really ?
SARA: Yeah . She actually suggested that I move in with her .
REBECCA: What ?
BEAT: You want to move ?
SARA: No , of course not . I love living here with you .
REBECCA: I do n't want more space . I want
SARA: Nothing 's set in stone . It 's just something to think about . Plus we 'd e able to keep Cuddles .
TRACY: Oh , hey .
SARA: I heard you changed dorms .
TRACY: Yeah , Conrad Hall . Seemed like a etter vibe .
SARA: Well , we should get together . Like grab a bite or something . Right ?
TO SARA: I 'll call you . But she 's already walking away .
SARA: Tracy ? !
REBECCA: What was that about ?
SARA: I do n't know . She just walked away .
REBECCA: Well , she 's always been a flake .
REBECCA: Looks like it 's just you and me tonight .
BABY TALK: See how nice and warm it is in there ?
SARA: Hey , what 's wrong ? Rebecca looks up at her , eyes red . Ashamed .
REBECCA: Cuddles got out .
SARA: Oh no . In the dorm ?
REBECCA: Outside .
SARA: What ? !
REBECCA: I was doing laundry I took he with me She jumped out of the ag and ran outside . I went afte her , but
WHIMPERS: I 'm so sorry .
SARA: Maybe she 'll come back .
EMPHATIC: She wo n't .
SARA: I 'm going to go find her .
REBECCA: Do you want me to help ?
SARA: Maybe it 's just karma o something . We were n't allowed to keep her anyway .
REBECCA: You 're not mad at me ?
SARA: It was an accident .
BEAT: It 's just stress after stress , you know ?
REBECCA: Is something else wrong ? A beat as Sara decides whether to confide .
SARA: My parents really want me to come home for Thanksgiving .
REBECCA: You do n't want to go ?
SARA: It 's not exactly the most festive holiday in the Matthews household .
BEAT: Emily died two days before Thanksgiving . A beat . Rebecca pats Sara 's hand .
SARA: I know I should be there with them , ut it 's like there 's a ghost at the table .
REBECCA: You can come with me .
THROWN: What ? Rebecca sits up , her excitement growing .
REBECCA: Yeah , spend Thanksgiving at my house .
SARA: Your folks would n't mind ?
LAUGHS: Please . Like they 'd even notice .
SARA: Okay , we 'll see . Thanks .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Your midterm designs are due Friday . Remember , class Simplicity . Who founded ou industry ? Eve when she handed Adam that fig leaf .
SURPRISED: Sure . I 've got a class right now . But I 'll come right after it .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I do n't think I need to tell you how impressed I 've been with you work .
BEAT: Every year I go to Fashion Week in Paris . It 's dazzling . The photo shoots the parties that incredible runway . When the first model bursts through the curtain and hits that catwalk ? Sara , a roa goes up from that crowd that 's like nothing you 've ever heard .
BEAT: But it does n't have to be . Sara 's pulse is racing .
SARA: I 'm not sure I understand . Are you saying what I think you 're saying ?
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I 'm saying you have a shot . You 'd have to earn it , Sara .
SARA: Of course . I 'll do anything .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I 'd like to see more danger in you work . Your designs are always crisp ; they 're always clear . But they 're a little safe .
SARA: Okay
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: The best designers push the oundaries of what 's acceptable . They take chances . Do you like to take chances , Sara ?
SARA: Sometimes .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: So do I .
SARA: I ca n't believe you just did that .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I took a chance , that 's all . With a student that I trust .
SARA: I better go .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Paris , Sara . Fashion Week . Do n't low the chance of a lifetime . She hurries out of the office .
REBECCA: What 's wrong ?
SARA: My design professor just kissed me .
REBECCA: Are you alright ? Sara nods .
SARA: Yeah , it just really creeped me out . And I think the asshole 's married .
REBECCA: Professor Roberts ?
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: That 's right .
REBECCA: I 'm glad I caught you .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Actually , I was just
REBECCA: Not yet . That 's why I 'm here .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: And why is that ?
REBECCA: Because I 'm bored . I thought it would be all about Freud , and deep dark secrets . But it 's brain chemistry . Synapses . I ca n't stay awake in class .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I 'm sorry to hear that . But I 'm not sure what I can do to help .
REBECCA: Tomorrow 's the last day to drop a course without penalty . Unless I can add another one in its place , I 'll fall way behind in credits . Daddy wo n't take that very well . He might even pull the plug . Which means
BEAT: I 'm pretty much at your mercy , Professor .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Look , I 've always made it a policy not to accept any students this late in the term .
REBECCA: Do I look like just any student to you ?
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Ex-wife .
REBECCA: Ask me anything .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Do you have any design experience ?
REBECCA: None .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: What do you know about clothes ?
REBECCA: Only one thing .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: And what 's that ?
REBECCA: I definitely look better out of them than in them .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: I think we might be able to work something out .
REBECCA: Great . Just tell me and I 'll do anything .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Kiss me .
BEAT: I 'll take it from there .
REBECCA: Ow ! You 're hurting me ! Professor , stop !
WALKMAN: Great . Just tell me and I 'll do anything .
BEAT: Kiss me . I 'll take it from there .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: You bitch tease !
REBECCA: Oh , I 'm not teasing .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: What ? How did ? Who are you ?
REBECCA: She trusted you . She walks toward the door .
PROFESSOR ROBERTS: Please do n't do this . Twenty years . Everything I worked for . I 'll pay for that tape .
REBECCA: Yes you will . She walks out the door .
STEPHEN: Anything wrong ? Sara is taken out of her own world
SARA: What ?
STEPHEN: Are you ok ?
SARA: Yeah , sure .
WOMAN: Welcome . I 'm Professor Jacobs . I 'll e taking over the class for the est of the semester .
WHISPERS: What happened ?
SARA: Remember what I told you about Professor Roberts ?
REBECCA: Yeah ?
SARA: He 's gone .
REBECCA: What do you mean ?
SARA: Well , they 're calling it a leave of absence . But what I heard someone sent the dean an anonymous ecording of him hitting on anothe student .
REBECCA: Oh My God .
SARA: I know .
REBECCA: That 's called Karma .
STEPHEN: I 've made a decision . You ready ?
SARA: Lem me hear it .
STEPHEN: I 'm gon na quit the band .
SARA: No . Really ? Why ?
STEPHEN: It 's a waste of time-and we suck .
SARA: Why would you say that ?
STEPHEN: Well , let me think about this . The only places we can get booked is at my own frat house and at my girlfriend 's coffee shop .
SMIRKS: You 're right . You guys do suck . A beat .
SARA: Hold it . Did you just say girlfriend ?
STEPHEN: You heard me .
SARA: So you think it 'll be fun to stay here during Thanksgiving ?
STEPHEN: Dinner at the frat , the football games . Do n't forget the always awkward , homoerotic humor .
SARA: Sounds like a blast .
STEPHEN: Oh . For sure .
SARA: Oh my God . What happened ?
REBECCA: I was looking for Cuddles . A man pulled me into an alley . He tried Sara holds her . She ca n't finish .
SARA: It 's okay . It 's okay . Shhh .
REBECCA: I got away .
SARA: You 're alright now .
REBECCA: No .
SARA: Rebecca , you need to . And then the police .
REBECCA: I do n't want to . I ca n't . Sara pulls out her cell phone .
SARA: You 're calling them , or I am . There 's a psycho walking around this campus .
CRYING AGAIN: Please . I did n't see him .
SARA: Okay , okay . I wo n't call . Just let me help you .
STEPHEN: I get it .
KISSES HER: I 'm going to make out with my pillow and pretend it 's you .
SARA: Just say you 'll miss me .
STEPHEN: I 'll miss you .
SARA: I have n't heard from Jason in weeks . It 's weird how he just stopped calling .
REBECCA: It 's what you wanted , right ? Sara nods , reassuring herself .
SARA: Yeah . Yeah it is .
REBECCA: It 's my parents house . It was never a home .
SURPRISED: We did n't think you would make it .
ALARMED: What happened ?
REBECCA: Nothing .
DAD: Nothing ? This is n't nothing .
SNAPS: Leave it alone .
DAD: Hello . And you are ?
SARA: I 'm Sara .
REBECCA: Sara 's my roommate .
PLEASED: I 'm Jeff .
MOM: It 's so great to meet you , Sara . I 'm Alison . Rebecca grabs Sara by the arm .
REBECCA: Come on , let me show you my room .
SARA: You did n't tell them we were coming ?
REBECCA: They did n't need to know .
SARA: These are interesting .
REBECCA: Yeah , some of my high school work . I have n't gotten around to takin them down .
SARA: Rebecca 's a pretty great artist .
JEFF: Yeah , we think Rebecca is so talented .
SARA: She 's an awesome roommate , too .
JEFF: ( looks at his daughter ,
REBECCA: Dad !
JEFF: What ? As a parent you worry . You protect your daughter all her life and then she goes off to college and she 's on her own . I 'm just elieved she got a good roommate .
ALISON: Sara , I 'll make up a room for you
REBECCA: She 'll stay in my room .
SARA: Sure .
REBECCA: Thanks for coming .
SARA: Next Thanksgiving , you can run interference with my family .
REBECCA: Done .
JEFF: Becs . You scared me .
REBECCA: Fine . My grades are good .
JEFF: That 's not what I meant . She looks down at the table .
REBECCA: I 'm making friends . Jeff , very subtly , cringes . A long beat .
JEFF: Rebecca , look at me for a second . Now she looks at him .
REBECCA: I know . He does n't know what else to say .
JEFF: I just wanted to make sure . Good night , I 'm heading back to bed . He rises . Sara turns and walks up the stairs .
ALISON: Hi Sara .
SARA: Hi . Rebecca 's going to show me some of her high school hangouts .
ALISON: Wonderful . Alison peers up the stairs .
SARA: Uhhh , yeah . I think she is .
ALISON: Is she taking her medication ?
SARA: Medication ?
ALISON: Hey sweetheart .
TO SARA: Ready ?
ALISON: Have a great time , you two .
REBECCA: Is everything okay ?
SARA: Yeah . It 's just She wants to ask her about that medication .
EMBARRASSED: Come on .
SARA: Thanks .
TO SARA: I used to come here like every day after school .
SARA: You know them ?
REBECCA: They went to my high school .
SARA: Friends ?
REBECCA: Let 's leave .
WARY: Hello .
REBECCA: Oh , I wanted to introduce you to Sara . My roommate .
MARIA: Hi .
SARA: Well , we better go .
MARIA: Rebecca .
SARA: Come on , let 's go .
REBECCA: Good run ?
SARA: Great . You wan na go get dinner ?
REBECCA: I 'm going to the art studio .
SARA: Oh . Okay . Catch you later then .
REBECCA: Do n't wait up , Sara
GRINS: I feel inspired .
REBECCA: Forgot my pad .
STEPHEN: Your door was open .
SARA: Oh my God .
STEPHEN: Sorry .
SARA: That 's what I intend to find out .
READING: APD anti-social personality disorder . Also known as sociopathy . They look at each other .
STEPHEN: Jesus . I thought she was just weird .
SARA: It says lithium can control the condition . Maybe these are refills . Maybe she 's been taking it all along .
STEPHEN: Certainly does n't seem like she 's een taking them . He 's right and she knows it . A beat .
SARA: I think it 's time I moved in with Irene .
IRENE: I 'm sorry to stare , but you are so eautiful .
REBECCA: Thanks . So are you . Great lips . What kind is it ?
IRENE: It 's cinnamon . Caffeinated . A girl never knows how late she 's gon na party . Rebecca smiles . A beat .
REBECCA: Can I try it ?
IRENE: As luck would have it , I 'm only two locks away andno roommate .
REBECCA: What are we waiting for ?
IRENE: Shit .
REBECCA: Hey !
SARA: Hey yourself . Where were you all night ?
REBECCA: Oh , I got inspired . I just lost track of time .
SARA'S SHOCKED: Will you come with me ?
SARA: Uhhh
REBECCA: Please . It would mean a lot to me . I wo n't be able to do it without you .
SARA: Um sure . Okay .
REBECCA: I know what I want .
SARA: Okay . I 'm out here if you need me .
SARA: Let 's see it .
SWEETLY: Think of me as your sister .
REBECCA: If you want you can call me Emily .
STEPHEN: This is all you 're taking ?
SARA: I 'll get the rest of my things when Irene comes back to town . He takes the box . Then notices
STEPHEN: Where 's your necklace ? She instinctively rubs the base of her neck .
SARA: I ca n't find it . It 's okay .
STEPHEN: Sara
SARA: I 'm not going back up there . He hands her the box . Time to man up .
STEPHEN: Wait here . I 'll go look for it .
REBECCA: What did I do ? He stops searching . Looks at her .
STEPHEN: She just needs to move on .
REBECCA: With you ?
STEPHEN: If you do find it , can you let me know ?
SARA: And tell them what ? What has she eally done to me ? No one can do anything .
BEAT: It 's the weirdest thing , Stephen . The girl 's own parents are afraid of her .
STEPHEN: Well , she sure scared the shit out of me .
SARA: Are these dirty or clean ? Stephen sniffs the shirts .
STEPHEN: Somewhere in between . She throws the t-shirts at him .
SARA: Seriously . Is it a game to be as loud as you possibly can ? She waves her arms like a crazy person .
GETTING UP: I can walk you there .
SARA: No , it 's okay .
STEPHEN: Party starts at ten . Really cool and
SARA: I hear the drummer 's really hot .
STEPHEN: He may be , but I 'm sleeping with his girlfriend She kisses him .
JASON: Sara . I 'm actually I 'm in front of your dorm . I just flew in . I 'm at the Roosevelt Hotel , room 210 . Call me , okay ?
GIRL: Help me find the keg ?
STEPHEN: Sure , I have to go look for my girlfriend anyway .
REBECCA: Shhhh .
JASON: Sara ?
BEAT: You got my voicemail .
REBECCA: Mm-hmmm . Kissing his back now , moving lower .
JASON: Oh , man , Sara . Oh , that feels good . She works her way back up to his ear .
WHISPERING: Turn over .
WHISPERING: Close your eyes .
JASON: I love you , Sara .
REBECCA: But she does n't love you .
LIBRARIAN: We 're about to close .
FRAT BOY: All hands on deck the keg 's still alive .
SARA: Irene ?
WHISPERING: Irene .
SARA: Rebecca ! Rebecca holds the gun steady on Sara .
REBECCA: Sit down and shut up .
SARA: Rebecca , you are my friend .
REBECCA: No . Shut up . We 're not friends . We 're here because you betrayed me .
SARA: Rebecca , I 'm sorry
REBECCA: Stop it . Stop saying things you do n't mean . I protected you . From that whore Tracy and that nasty little kitten and That scumbag of a professor
BEAT: Even that loser ex-boyfriend of yours .
SARA: What 're you talking about ? What 'd you do to them ? What 'd you do to Jason ?
REBECCA: I got rid of them all . And how do you repay me ? By leaving me .
SARA: Rebecca , please forgive me . A long beat . Rebecca 's face lights up .
REBECCA: Now we can start all over again . Let 's make things the way they were , Sara . That first day . Just the two of us .
SARA: Rebecca
REBECCA: After all you can only have one est friend .
SARA: No ! Do n't !
REBECCA: Lay still bitch .
SARA: Please . Do n't do this
REBECCA: Stop ! I mean it .
GENTLE: Shh I 'm so sorry .
REBECCA: Do n't make me hurt you , Sara . I just want to be your friend .
IRENE: My phone . My phone .
SARA: Shit !
IRENE: The window ! There 's a fire escape . You can reach it .
REBECCA: I know you 're scared , Sara . But I promise , everything is gon na be okay .
CRYING: Ohgodohgodohgod .
SCREAMING: Stephen ! Help !
IRENE: Hurry ! !
STEPHEN: Okay I 've got you . Everything is gon na be okay ! He pulls her halfway in the window But a shadow rises behind him .
SARA: Stephen .
REBECCA: You wo n't do it . We 're fr
SARA: Rebecca . We were never friends .
GROANING: Sara . She races over to him . He 's barely alive .
SARA: Stephen . Hold on .
STEPHEN: Better now . You being here 's gon na help . Sara smiles .
SARA: Just got here .
STEPHEN: Well let me give you some time to get settled in .
SARA: Actually , I need you right here , ight now . Stephen grins . He likes where this is headed .
STEPHEN: Okay .
SARA: Now I can get settled in .
STEPHEN: I 'll be back to pick you up fo dinner . You gon na be ready ?
SARA: Absolutely .
GRAHAM: What in thunderation Wait a minute stop
MARY: Until you came along we were going to Sonora .
GRAHAM: What do you know about that . Did you sell your place ?
MARY: Not exactly . They decided gambling and dancing were bad for people . Can I make it ?
GRAHAM: Depends on how good you drive .
HELEN: She 's a little out of practice . Graham jumps over the wheel .
GRAHAM: Slide over .
HELEN: I 'm slidin ' all the way over .
MARCIA: So am I . Come on Elaine .
ELAINE: What 's the difference if we fall in the canyon .
MARCIA: Do n't talk like that .
GRAHAM: Nothin ' to it He releases the brake .
GRAHAM: There you are . Now take it easy and you 'll be all right .
MARY: Thank you , Mr. Graham .
MARCIA: There 's dead men in your wagon !
GRAHAM: That 's right . You had me so busy I forgot Come to think of it you better turn around and drive right back to Aspen .
ELAINE: Back to what ?
GRAHAM: Why , back to Aspen , where you came from .
MARY: Aspen does n't want us Mr. Graham . They threw us out .
GRAHAM: They should n't have done that .
MARY: We tried to point that out . But there were some pretty nosey citizens who would n't listen to reason . They said Aspen had outgrown us . It 's all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon .
GRAHAM: I knew something would happen when they started puttin ' up fences and passin ' laws . Mary unwraps the reins from the whipstock .
MARY: Goodbye and thanks .
GRAHAM: I do n't like to see you go .
STEVE: How does she draw ?
CLAY: A little hot . Sam lifts the rim to the wheel .
SAM: You want to get out of here before noon , maybe you should lend me a hand .
CLAY: Rate you 're goin ' , we 'll be here until winter .
SAM: Account of you , I miss out on the only excitement Aspen 's had fo months .
CLAY: You 're too old to watch such goin 's on .
STEVE: And I 'm too young . Clay and Sam spin the wheel in the tub .
CLAY: That 's right .
STEVE: I do n't see no sense to makin ' people leave town if they do n't want to leave .
SAM: I do n't either when people are that good-lookin ' . Maybe that 's why they were too good-lookin ' . But there 'll be others along to take their place after a while when this quiets down . And everything will be fine until some busybody starts stirring up trouble .
CLAY: Do n't you ever run down ?
SAM: Some people just have to run othe people 's lives . Now take Clay . You want to amble up the street and see the fun and what does he say ?
CLAY: You stick to your blacksmithin ' and let me take care of Steve .
MAN: Do n't know . Graham brought 'em in . The sheriff calls from O.s .
GARDNER'S VOICE: Clay , come up here a minute .
CLAY: Hello Graham Joe Mr. Gardner .
GARDNER: Graham 's got something to tell you might interest you .
GRAHAM: Cal Forster and his sons . Somebody killed 'em . He pauses to let that sink in .
CLAY: Forster never did anyone any harm . But what 's that got to do with me ? I came into town from the south . Gardner holds out the burned jacket .
GARDNER: This was smoulderin ' on the fire . Clay moves over to glance down at the jacket .
CLAY: I still do n't see .
GARDNER: I got it day before yesterday . Clay reads it .
CLAY: Maybe he did .
GARDNER: We 're going to look for him . Want to come along ?
CLAY: I 've got eleven horses to get ove the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed .
GARDNER: And that 's more important than finding Lednov ?
CLAY: Like you said , maybe he knows where my ranch is . If he does , he 'll be waiting on the porch . He turns toward the steps .
GARDNER: I 'll drop the sheriff in Sonora a line to sort of look around for him .
CLAY: Thanks .
STEVE: Who 's Lednov ?
CLAY: A man I used to know .
HAYES: Forget somethin ' , Clay ?
CLAY: Shells . How much for six boxes ?
HAYES: Six times six bits . But wait until I finish this .
STEVE: You might tell a fellow things , 'specially if the fellow 's you other , seems to me .
CLAY: Like what ?
STEVE: Like why you 're buyin ' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden .
CLAY: I do n't want to run short .
STEVE: You never said this Lednov 's name efore , that I can remember .
CLAY: No call to . That jail looked pretty solid to me . How 's she feel ?
STEVE: Nice .
HAYES: You know bettern ' to do that , Steve . Unless you 're figurin ' on buyin ' it .
CLAY: One he 's got , more his size .
STEVE: But it 's leaded up and anyway a 22 's no good for real huntin ' . You shoot a man with a 22 and where are you ?
CLAY: The thing to do is stick to rabbits .
STEVE: What was he in jail for ?
CLAY: You sure worry that bone . He killed a fellow .
STEVE: In a fight ?
CLAY: The other fellow was n't even lookin ' .
STEVE: This is an awful nice gun . Certainly come in handy when there 's men around who shoot people that are n't lookin ' .
CLAY: I may as well buy it for him . Otherwise he 'll be crying all the way over the hill .
STEVE: You must be plenty worried about Lednov sneakin ' up on us . Think he will ?
CLAY: Yes .
STEVE: At the ranch maybe ?
CLAY: Maybe at the ranch . Maybe soone than that .
STEVE: Do you have to be so close-mouthed ? I 'm your brother . And I 'm ridin ' with you . Remember ?
CLAY: All right . I 'll tell you .
STEVE: And meet him there .
CLAY: Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up .
STEVE: Sure a lot of guys lookin ' for Lednov .
CLAY: Yeah and Lednov 's only lookin ' for one man . Me .
STEVE: Why ?
CLAY: He does n't like me . What you eatin ' ?
STEVE: Lednov .
STEVE: Another one , Clay .
STEVE: They sure must have been travelin ' . This keeps up we can start a store .
CLAY: Things get tough next winter , you 'll have somethin ' to wear .
STEVE: I 'd look good doin ' the ploughin ' in this .
CLAY: Anybody hurt ?
MARY: No . We came down the hill a little fast and the wheel broke . Can you fix it for us ? Clay bends over Elaine .
CLAY: What 's the matter with her ?
MARY: Too much excitement . How about the surrey . Can you fix it ?
STEVE: Jimininy . You sure were lucky , just ustin ' a wheel .
HELEN: You think that'sall we busted You should see
CLAY: This must have been in the family a long time .
MARY: It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen . I 'm Mary Wells .
CLAY: I 'm Clay Phillips . My brother Steve . Steve tugs at his battered hat .
STEVE: Pleased to meet you , ma'am . We found your trunk . Were you doin ' the driven ' ?
MARY: I was at first . Then I was hanging on . Are you going far ?
CLAY: Yes , ma'am .
MARY: As far as Sonora ?
CLAY: Just about . Mary and Helen exchange glances .
MARY: We 're going to Sonora , too , so that solves everything .
CLAY: I 've got eleven horses .
STEVE: Morgan blood . The beat in Nevada . Clay and me have a place on the Toulomne River . We 're going to raise horses like these .
MARY: They wo n't be riding in the wagon .
CLAY: Did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over Sonora Pass ? It 's quite a job .
MARY: You ca n't leave us here .
CLAY: Course I ca n't . I 'll give you a lift to the first ranch .
MARY: What good is it going to do us to go to some ranch ?
CLAY: You can stay here if you like .
MARY: We have to get to Sonora . There are jobs waiting for us there . We 'll pay you for your trouble .
CLAY: I 'm not running a stage line , ma'am , and I ca n't take a chance on losing the horses .
HELEN: Afraid it will stop him growin ' ?
CLAY: Let 's get your stuff in the wagon . Like I said , I 'll take you to the first ranch . I wish I could carry you all the way , but I ca n't . It 's a tough trip and women would be in the way .
MARY: Our kind of women ?
CLAY: You 'll have to drive except down hill .
HELEN: Maybe you 're going about this all wrong . Why not try telling him we 'll do the cookin ' and mendin ' and washin ' for him . That usually works . Yeah , but suppose he took us up on it . Where would we be ?
MARY: Maybe in Sonora . She starts around the surrey . Helen follows . Clay bends over Elaine .
CLAY: What 's the matter with her ?
MARY: Too much excitement . Or maybe it 's just the heat . How about the surrey . Can you fix it ?
STEVE: Jiminy . You sure were lucky , just ustin ' a wheel .
HELEN: You think that 's all we busted You should see
MARY: Now where 's she goin ' ?
ELAINE: I lost something .
CLAY: It would n't happen to be this
MARY: Who 's the old folks ?
ELAINE: Give it to me !
CLAY: This must have been in the family a long time .
MARY: It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen . I 'm Mary Wells .
CLAY: I 'm Clay Phillips . My brother Steve . Steve tugs at his battered hat .
STEVE: Pleased to meet you , ma'am . We found your trunk . Were you doin ' the drivin ' ?
MARY: Come on , Honeybunch . We 're changing trains .
ELAINE: What ranch ?
MARY: What 's the difference ? She tries to lead the girl toward the wagon .
ELAINE: Ask him what ranch
MARY: There 's plenty of time for that . Come on , now . You 've got to lie down out of this sun . Stop worrying . I 'll find out what ranch after a while . She pulls the girl with her toward the wagon .
CLAY: Stretch out under the seat , Miss .
ELAINE: Which ranch ?
CLAY: How 's that ?
MARY: She 's worried about where you 're taking us .
CLAY: It 's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt .
CLAY'S VOICE: They 'll take you in until you can make other arrangements .
CLAY: So both of you stop worrying . He turns away and hurries back to the surrey .
CLAY'S VOICE: Steve , see the horses do n't drink too much
STEVE: Leave that unharnessing for me , Ma'am .
CLAY: There 's a place down a ways , where you and the girls can wash some of that dust off .
MARY: Thanks . And is n't there something we can do about supper or making the eds ?
CLAY: Steve and me , we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp .
MARY: But you eat , do n't you ?
CLAY: Mostly , we open a can of beans and oil some coffee .
MARY: Where do you keep the can opener ?
CLAY: In the grub box . Toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a ed under the wagon . Spread some unch grass under the tarp and the ground wo n't be so hard .
MARY: Marcia all of you . Come on . She starts downstream .
STEVE: Where 'd they go ?
CLAY: Swimming .
STEVE: It 's sort of nice having company along . Not so lonesome .
CLAY: When you get the team watered , rustle up some wood .
STEVE: You boys have had enough .
HELEN'S VOICE: And I 'm the girl who used to complain to my mother about helping with the wash .
CLAY: Get your rifle .
CLAY: Drop your gun .
CLAYTON: Drop yours . I 'm gunshy .
CLAY: Then do n't come sneakin ' around a man 's camp .
CLAYTON: A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden , he do n't take chances . My name 's Clayton and I 'm looking fo someone . Clay and Steve lower their rifles .
CLAY: So did I . They were in it .
CLAYTON: She 's a friend took off this morning sort of sudden while I was n't around .
CLAY: I 'm glad you came along . My brother , Steve . I 'm Phillips . Steve shakes Jim 's hand .
CLAY: Here 's a man says he 's looking fo you girls .
CLAYTON: Hello , Miss Wells . Hearing his voice , Marcia runs toward them .
MARCIA: Jim .
CLAYTON: I was roundin ' up some stock . That 's why I did n't come sooner .
MARCIA'S VOICE: I did n't know who to tell , it all happened so sudden , those people comin ' and throwin ' us out on the street .
JIM'S VOICE: Do n't you think about it , darlin ' . Do n't you think about anythin ' but us .
HELEN: Looks like we lose a good piano player .
MARCIA: Jim came after me , Mary .
MARY: I see he did .
HELEN: With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other .
MARY: Why did n't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen . I told the man in Sonora there were four of us . If only three show up , he might call the whole deal off . We 've got to stick together . Like we 've always done .
MARCIA: I 've got a chance to get married .
MARY: That 's what I 'm gettin ' at . It neve works . Do n't forget we were thrown out of Aspen .
MARCIA: Jim does n't care , do you , Jim ? Mary speaks before Jim can answer .
MARY: But Jim is n't the only one you 're marrying . He has folks and friends . What are they going to say ? And how 're they going to feel ? I tell you , it wo n't work .
CLAY: Of course it 'll work . You can get another girl to fill out the act .
MARY: And look at it this way . How about Jim it puts him in a sort of tough spot .
JIM: I know what I 'm doing . My folks got nothin ' to do with it
MARY: You 've talked this over with them ?
JIM: They know about Marcia .
MARY: And they do n't like the idea !
CLAY: Suppose they do n't . This is his problem . He 's over twenty-one . He wants to marry Marcia and Marcia wants to marry him so let 'em alone . Mary turns on Clay .
MARY: If you were in his shoes would you take one of us home ?
CLAY: I 'm not in his shoes , so leave me out of it .
STEVE: I would ! Clay swings around and comes back .
CLAY: Steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire .
MARY: Would you , Mr. Phillips ?
CLAY: Go on , there 's a good boy . Clay gives Steve a gentle push . Steve exits .
MARY: Do n't you want him to hear you answer ? Well , I know what it is . Fo the other fellow it 's all right ut not you . All you want is to get id of one of us .
JIM: Wait a minute .
CLAY: I 'm sorry . I ca n't do that . I went a long way to get those horses .
JIM: All right , we 'll ride double . Come on , Marcia .
MARY: No need to do that , Marcia . Jim and Marcia turn .
MARY: Is that your kind of reading , Steve ?
STEVE: I ca n't read , Ma'am . I just look at the pictures .
MARY: You ca n't read ? She glances up where Clay sits .
STEVE: Since I can remember , Ma'am .
MARY: But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling ?
STEVE: It was n't Clay 's fault . We 've been moving around most all the time mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then
MARY: Do n't you even know your letters ?
STEVE'S VOICE: No , Ma'am .
MARY: Would you like to learn them ?
STEVE: I sure would .
MARY: Maybe I could start you out .
STEVE: That 'd be swell . You know , you 're an awful lot different than I thought you 'd be . She gives him a quick look of inquiry .
MARY: Did someone say I was n't nice ?
STEVE: Oh no . Nobody said nothing to me . Only I got the idea that well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing , but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street .
CLAY: Time to go to bed , Steve . Steve looks up , then rises reluctantly .
STEVE: Good night , Miss Wells .
MARY: Good night , Steve .
CLAY: Yeah .
MARY: That why you always took him on the other side of the street ? Clay kicks loose embers into the fire .
CLAY: He does n't know his letters , no ut he knows the names of animals he knows what roots to eat when you 're clear out of food He knows the difference between a possum and a coon just by lookin ' at the tracks more than most trappers know and he can tell whether she 'll rain o shine tomorrow by smelling the ai tonight . There 's a lot of things he does n't know , I hope he 'll neve learn . He pauses , looking down .
MARY: Like what ?
CLAY: Like sticking his nose into othe people 's business .
MARY: Where 's Elaine ?
HELEN: She was here a while ago .
MARY: Elaine !
MARY'S VOICE: Elaine . Clay Elaine 's gone .
HELEN: She ca n't have gone far . I was n't asleep long .
CLAY: What would she run off for ?
MARY: Because she 's sick . She starts away into the darkness .
CLAY: Stay here . One woman wanderin ' off 's enough . Mary turns back .
STEVE: Do n't you worry , Miss Wells . We 'll find her . Clay picks up his saddle and bridle .
CLAY: Build the fire up and stick close to it . Come on , Steve .
MARY: Elaine Elaine Elaine .
MARY'S VOICE: Elaine Elaine . As the call echoes across the hills .
STEVE: Ma'am you should n't have run off like that . Why I was just about to give up lookin ' . Come on , now . Elaine does n't move .
ELAINE: I do n't care .
STEVE: Suppose that Lednov was to have found you , instead of me . Why you would n't have had a chance .
ELAINE: I said I did n't care .
STEVE: What 's botherin ' you , anyway ? He pulls her up .
ELAINE: Do n't ask me because I wo n't tell you ! I wo n't tell anybody ! Go away !
STEVE: Do n't act so crazy .
ELAINE: I 'm sorry . Let 's go .
STEVE: That 's a good girl .
STEVE: That 's it . Watch out where you 're steppin '
STEVE: Lednov
GARDNER: Want to take her off our hands ?
CLAY: Who shot who ?
GARDNER: Nobody . The light was bad .
CLAY: I would n't know . Did you ask her ?
GARDNER: All I can get out of her is she do n't care about livin ' .
CLAY: Look of things , she does n't .
GARDNER: Yeah . Keep a closer eye on her And him . Shootin ' going on , we 'll never find Lednov .
STEVE: There was only three of them at first . I guess I lost my head .
CLAY: How 'd you happen to miss ?
STEVE: They were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin ' . I did n't have them to aim .
CLAY: Good thing you did n't . He reins his horse around .
STEVE: Clay Clay looks back .
CLAY: That 's right , Steve .
STEVE: Can I have my gun back ?
CLAY: Sure . You 'll find it under the wagon seat . Like I said before , a twenty- two 's more your size .
STEVE: Gee , I ca n't .
MARY: Why not ? You went farther than that last time .
STEVE: I 'm too old for it , Miss Wells That 's for little kids .
MARY: Do n't be silly Nobody 's too old to learn .
STEVE: Okay . A-B-C D-E-F G-H-I
CLAY: Oh , Steve !
CLAY: Get back to the horses . They 're straggling .
MARY: He 's learning his letters .
CLAY: Yeah . While the horses wander all over the country . Steve hesitates hoping he 'll change his mind .
MARY: Learnin ' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street .
CLAY: Are the horses stragglin ' or are n't they ?
MARY: They 're stragglin ' .
CLAY: His letters will keep . He wheels his horse and rides after Steve .
CLAY: Steve I want you to learn to read . I meant to teach you but I neve seemed to find time . I figured when we got settled on the ranch we 'd get around to it . They ride in silence for a moment .
STEVE: I wo n't again .
CLAY: This is n't like other trips we 've taken . For one thing , we 've got a wagonload of women . For anothe there 's a guy wanderin ' around hopin ' to put a bullet in my back .
STEVE: Okeh , I was wrong . But you ca n't expect a fellow who never saw Lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin ' . You 've been sorta close mouthed about him .
CLAY: I guess I have . You were pretty little when they locked him up . I do n't suppose you even remember that time I was gone two months .
STEVE: Sure I remember . You went to Mexico lookin ' for cattle .
CLAY: You remember Jeff Rawson ? We used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high .
STEVE: Sure I do . Went off down to Mexico or something
CLAY: That 's what I told you then . Only he did n't . Lednov killed him .
STEVE: Oh that 's the time you went away .
CLAY: I caught up with Lednov in Nogales . He did n't like the idea of comin ' ack across the border but he came . I turned him over to the sheriff and that 's the story .
STEVE: Maybe you shoulda killed him .
CLAY: Maybe I should . But I was never much on killin ' . Anyway , he moved too quick and I just got him through the shoulder . Looks pretty peaceful up ahead .
STEVE: Yeah , it does .
CLAY: But you never can tell . Why do n't you get that new rifle out of the wagon ? Steve smiles warmly at him .
HELEN: Elaine stop it
MARY: She should be in bed where it 's dry .
CLAY: Yes , Ma'am , she should
MARY: Can we get a doctor at that ranch ?
CLAY: No , Ma'am , we ca n't . We can get a oof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people .
WYATT: My name 's Wyatt . Certainly glad you oys dropped in .
LEDNOV: Those the only horses you got ?
WYATT: Why , yes . They 're all I need
LEDNOV: Mine 's gone lame . Take a look at him .
WYATT: Whoa , boy . Let 's have a look .
LEDNOV: Put on another one .
WYATT: That wo n't help the stone bruise . You ai n't been around horses much , looks like .
LEDNOV: Will you quit gabbin ' and do what you 're told . Wyatt hesitates . Lednov steps toward him .
WYATT: All right , but it wo n't do much good .
MRS. WYATT: I was up to my elbows in flour when you boys rode up , that 's why I di n't come out sooner . I hope Ed asked you to stay the night ?
LEDNOV: All we want 's supper .
MCCALL: We 're in a hurry .
PETERS: Take care of that horse ?
WYATT: Yeah . The best I could . Wyatt goes on past and hurries up the steps .
LEDNOV: Lookin ' around .
WYATT: Put my guns down and get out of here
MRS. WYATT: Ed no , Ed .
LEDNOV: Your old woman 's got sense you listen to her .
MRS. WYATT: They 's a box in the cupboard ove the sink .
LEDNOV: Get on about your chores . And hurry that grub up .
CLAY: Only a little ways now maybe a mile .
HELEN: If she feels worse than I do , she 's dyin ' . Clay rides back toward the rear .
CLAY: Steve
STEVE'S VOICE: Yo
MCCALL: I 'll have some more of that coffee . Lednov pushes his chair back and rises .
LEDNOV: We got to get movin ' .
MCCALL: What for ?
LEDNOV: Because there 's a man I want to see .
MCCALL: He can wait . Let 's stay here until morning .
LEDNOV: I said let 's go .
MCCALL: One night more wo n't matter . You friend 'll be there . Anyway I do n't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch . He knows you 're out so he ai n't going to sit still for it .
LEDNOV: I said I had a guy to see and I 'm going to see him .
PETERS: He says go , we go .
WYATT: If they 'd only left me a gun , I 'd fix 'em .
MRS. WYATT: Hush , Ed . Hush . They might come back .
CLAY: Mr. Wyatt .
WYATT'S VOICE: Who is it ?
CLAY: Clay Phillips .
WYATT: You can light the lamp . I 'm sure glad it 's you . We were afraid those killers might come back .
CLAY: Three men on matched roans ?
WYATT: Yeah , how did you know ?
CLAY: The whole state 's lookin ' for 'em . And they 're lookin ' for me .
MRS. WYATT: You do n't know how good it is to see you .
CLAY: Maybe you wo n't feel that way afte I tell you what I stopped in for . He turns and motions off .
CLAY: I picked up some women on the road .
MRS. WYATT: Tell them to come on in .
CLAY: But I 'm going to have to leave 'em here . They 're - well they 're not the sort of people you 're used to .
MRS. WYATT: It does n't matter who they are .
CLAY: And one of 'em is sick .
MRS. WYATT: Why did n't you say so . Go right out and get her . Ed . build the fire up .
WYATT: Put it back .
MRS. WYATT: Someone might as well get some good out of it . Wyatt crosses to the trunk .
WYATT: It stays there , understand !
MRS. WYATT: Right in here , Mr. Phillips .
MARY: Is she very sick ?
WYATT: Get 'em out of here . I wo n't have 'em in this house .
MARY: So that was why she tried to run away .
CLAY: Did n't you know she had a father and mother out here ?
MARY: I did n't know anything about he except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded . I could n't leave her in the street . Let 's go .
CLAY: Hold on .
MARY: We ca n't stay here !
CLAY: It 's a long walk back to Aspen .
HELEN: I do n't know about you . But I 'm not eing thrown out on an empty stomach .
CLAY: I 'm sorry about this , Mr. Wyatt . I did n't know who she was .
WYATT: All right , you did n't know .
CLAY: I ca n't take her with me .
WYATT: Nobody asked you to .
CLAY: You 're not bein ' quite fair .
WYATT: What 's there to be fair about ?
CLAY: I 'm sorry about this , Mr. Wyatt . I did n't know you had a daughter .
WYATT: All right , you did n't know .
CLAY: I ca n't take her with me .
WYATT: Nobody asked you to .
CLAY: You 're not bein ' quite fair .
WYATT: What 's there to be fair about ? Steve comes up .
STEVE: Hello , Mr. Wyatt .
STEVE: Where do I put your things ? Mary turns from the window .
MARY: Back in the wagon .
STEVE: Are n't we stayin ' ?
MARY: No . We 're not stayin ' She crosses to him and smiles wryly .
HELEN: Sit down and eat , why do n't you ?
MARY: That 's not what 's worryin ' me . Why did n't she tell us ? Maybe we could have done somethin ' gone somewhere else puttin ' a poor sick kid through this
HELEN: Quit worryin ' about Elaine . She motions to the bedroom door .
CLAY: This will be your room until Mr. Wyatt finds time to take you to the nearest stage station . As he carries their belongings in
HELEN: That sounds like him . Mary slides out of bed and slips into a robe .
CLAY: Coffee ?
MARY: No , thanks . I hope we wo n't be a burden to them .
CLAY: I hope so , too .
MARY: A time like this people ought to be alone . Having us around is going to make it sort of hard on 'em .
CLAY: I 'm sorry , but that 's how it 's got to be .
MARY: I suppose it is .
CLAY: And it 's not only because the trip 's a tough one
MARY: You do n't have to explain . Did I tell you how grateful I am for what you 've done ?
CLAY: I could n't leave you sitting by the oad .
MARY: You could have treated us like they did in Aspen . No . You would n't do a thing like that it is n't in you to be mean or cruel . Mary rises to move to the edge of the porch .
MARY: No man who brings up a kid like you 've ought up Steve could ever be cruel to people .
CLAY: Thanks .
MARY: You 've earned it the horse ranch on the Toulomoe the girl in the spotted gingham .
CLAY: The who ?
MARY: You should know . She 's in your dream .
CLAY: Go on . Tell me more about her .
MARY: She wears this gingham dress cooks popovers makes jam in season makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the colo of red apples .
CLAY: I 'll make the soap myself .
MARY: But the rest is right .
CLAY: Will she be dark or fair ?
MARY: Blonde as a new mop . And beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar .
HELEN: Did you make it interesting ? Mary snuggles down on the pillow .
MARY: I tried my best , but these things take time .
HELEN: And we 're running out of that .
MARY: There 's still tomorrow morning .
HELEN'S VOICE: Those trunks look like ours . Mary , who was in profile , turns .
MARY: They are .
HELEN: How long do you think we 'll have to stay here ?
MARY: Until Pa gets around to driving us to Minden .
HELEN: We do n't want to go there .
MARY: No we do n't . But that 's where we 're going . From Minden we take a stage to Reno , then another one over to Auburn and another one to Placerville . Then it 's a day 's trip to Sonora .
HELEN: Clay could save us an awful lot of time .
MARY: He certainly could . About a month .
HELEN: What are you waiting for ? Do something .
MARY: How many ways can a man say no . Helen rises . Her manner is determined .
HELEN: Maybe I better start working on him .
MARY: You 'd think he 'd do it for Elaine 's sake , at least
HELEN: If you ca n't bring him around , nobody can . She puts her arm around Mary 's shoulder .
MARY: What 's the use .
HELEN: Please . Maybe he 'll take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses .
MRS. WYATT: But I like to do it .
HELEN: You 're worn out . As she pushes Mrs. Wyatt toward the door .
ELAINE: Helen why do n't you and Mary go on with Clay ?
HELEN: He wo n't take us . Do n't you want us around ?
ELAINE: Of course I do but it 'd be bette for you and the house is kind of small
HELEN: If you 're worried about Mary and me talkin ' too much , do n't . No matte how many questions your old man asks . We know how to keep our mouths shut .
ELAINE: It is n't that
HELEN: Do n't talk eat we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here .
ELAINE: But I want to stay .
HELEN: Drink this and stop being silly . Why would anyone want to live in this place . You might as well be dead and uried . Nothing to do but look at mountains . In a week you 'd be talking to yourself . Maybe that 's what got you started in the first place .
ELAINE: I 'm not going anywhere . I 'm staying here where I belong .
HELEN: Not if I know Mary . When she rides into Sonora , you 'll be with her . And mighty glad to be there after this . I do n't see how you stood it as long as you did .
ELAINE: Stop it stop it .
HELEN: Darling now I 've got you all upset . Elaine buries her head in the pillow .
ELAINE: Go away please .
HELEN: That 's right you go back to sleep . Tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different . Do n't you worry about anything Mary 's going to talk things ove with your folks Elaine sits up and grabs Helen 's arm .
ELAINE: She must n't do n't you let her
HELEN: There , there . Do n't you upset yourself
ELAINE: If she says anything to them I 'll kill her .
MRS. WYATT: What did you do to her ?
HELEN: Nothing . The poor child 's worried about Mary Turning , she goes to the door .
CLAY: Well , I 'm off
CLAY: What 's the matter ?
ELAINE: Do n't let them stay here , Mr. Phillips . They 'll spoil everything .
MRS. WYATT: Please take them .
CLAY: I ca n't
ELAINE: You 've got to do n't you understand they want me with them and they 'll fix it so I have to go
CLAY: No they wo n't .
STEVE: What comes after Z ?
MARY: That 's the end of the line .
STEVE: Then I know my alphabet .
MARY: From A to Z . All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words .
STEVE: And that 's tough , is n't it ?
MARY: Without someone to teach you , it 's tough .
CLAY: That 's fine .
STEVE: I 'll bet I 'd be reading in a week if He catches Clay 's glance and his face falls .
MARY: Maybe Clay will take up where I left off .
STEVE: I do n't think it 's fair He pauses ; Clay waits .
CLAY: Finished , son ?
STEVE: There 's only two of them now .
CLAY: I 'll round up the horses . Throw that junk in the wagon .
MARY: You were right a man has only so many no 's in him . But he had me worried that last one sounded so final .
STEVE: It 's a lot tougher than I figured . Knowin ' my letters is one thing . But makin ' sense out of words is harder ' n trackin ' weasel after rain .
MARY: There 's plenty of use for reading you 'll see .
STEVE: U-n-i-c-o-r-n- What in heck 's that ?
MARY: Unicorn a kind of animal
STEVE: What do they look like ?
MARY: Hmmm sort of like a horse with a horn in the center of its forehead .
STEVE: Horses with horns ! Huh ! Do we have 'em in Nevada ?
MARY: No .
STEVE: How about California ?
MARY: Would they be good to eat ?
STEVE: Then if they was n't alive , how can they be an animal ? Mary starts to protest Steve goes on .
MARY: You do n't read to fill your stomach Poetry , for instance . All the poems in the world would n't fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal but they make you feel good .
STEVE: I feel good anyways .
CLAY: Do n't go arguing with your teacher .
STEVE: I 'm not , but there 's some of it I do n't see any sense to .
CLAY: There 's a lot of things I do n't see any sense to . But make up your mind . Learn to read or go back and watch the horses .
MARY: Well , Steve ?
STEVE: Now I know what a unicorn is , what do we do next ?
LEDNOV: We 'll camp on up ahead away . That leg ai n't good
CLAY: We 're staying here until dark . Pull over to the woods . You put hobbles on the horses all of 'em . Get goin ' .
MARY: Where you goin ' ? Over to the othe side of the street ?
MARY: Are we leaving ?
CLAY: It 's too light yet .
MARY: You 're not going out to look fo them ?
CLAY: No , I 'm not . All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us a long way ahead . So I 'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail .
STEVE: Nobody 's gon na catch him sleeping . Do n't worry about him .
MARY: Oh , I was n't worrying . I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave .
STEVE: You were worryin ' . Mary glances over .
MARY: And you 've got me all figured out ?
STEVE: Sure .
MARY: You were supposed to be reading words .
STEVE: I was doin ' both . Here .
HELEN: Thanks , Steve .
MARY: Better not let Clay catch you waitin ' on us .
STEVE: Do n't pay any attention to him . That 's his way and I 've found he 's sure easy to get along with . I do n't ecollect him havin ' hit me more ' n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin ' .
MARY: But you 're his brother .
STEVE: He 'll treat his wife just as good . Maybe better . Ever see him use a ull snake on the mules like othe wranglers ? Mary shakes her head .
HELEN: You make him sound wonderful Go on . Tell Mary more about him .
MARY: She was only teasin ' .
STEVE: Oh , sure .
MARY: Let me do that .
STEVE: I like to do things for you . Did n't you know ?
MARY: I know now .
MARY: Do n't you trust me ?
CLAY: Not on this trail , I do n't . I 've een over it before . Anyway , you ought to be pretty sleepy . Why do n't you climb in back . Mary glances ahead .
MARY: I like to see where I 'm going .
CLAY: Did you ever care where you were goin ' or where you 'd been ? Mary glances over at him wonderingly .
MARY: Maybe not ! But I want to get there in one piece .
CLAY: Why do you think ?
MARY: I do n't know . I thought I did . Now I 'm not sure . I thought it had something to do with me .
CLAY: Oh , it did . It had a great deal to do with you .
MARY: Just how do you mean that ?
CLAY: You know so much about me figure it out .
MARY: So that 's it You think I was making fun of you girl in gingham .
MARY'S VOICE: I was n't . And I was n't making fun of you or your dream .
CLAY: You would n't do a thing like that , would you ?
MARY: Yes . But that was the other night . Now I do n't think I would .
CLAY: That 's the West Walker . Take it easy now .
FOWLER'S VOICE: Hold it !
FOWLER: What are you doin ' on this trail ?
CLAY: Followin ' it . Any reason I should n't ?
FOWLER: My name 's Fowler . I 'm camped up a ways . He extends his hand . Clay shakes it .
CLAY: Clay Phillips of Aspen . Been havin ' trouble ?
FOWLER: Nope . But I do n't want any .
CLAY: Neither do we . That 's why we took this trail instead of the main road , and drove all night .
FOWLER: You 're welcome to use my camp .
MARY: We might as well start a fire .
HELEN: Go ahead . Get in training for the pioneer life . I 'm finding the nearest body of wate and climbing into it .
MARY: Got a light ?
STEVE: Want the wagon unloaded , Clay ?
CLAY: Just the grub box and bed rolls .
STEVE: I I think it 'll be swell .
CLAY: When you get older you 'll understand things better . Like women and men . Just because a man kisses a woman , does n't always mean well , he can kiss her and not want to have he around all the time .
FOWLER'S VOICE: What are you doing down here ? Helen , startled , turns .
FOWLER: You got no business snoopin ' around
HELEN: Me snoopin ' ? I came down here to take a bath . She glances from Fowler to the cradle .
FOWLER: No . But it 's mine and I did n't want anyone foolin ' with it .
HELEN: What is it ?
FOWLER: Just a thing I was workin ' on .
HELEN: The way you act , it must be something pretty secret .
FOWLER: Go on . Take your bath . I 'll beat it .
HELEN: You would n't have a smoke on you , would you ?
FOWLER: That sure smells good .
HELEN: I like it .
FOWLER: Up here in the hills , a man gets a hankering to smell powder .
HELEN: Then why stay in the hills .
FOWLER: I guess you can keep a secret . That 's a gold rocker . I 'm doin ' a little placer mining in a place nobody eve thought to look for gold before .
MARY: Roll me a cigarette , Clay .
CLAY: Maybe it 's better that way .
MARY: You do n't mean that Clay .
MARY: Tell me , darling .
CLAY: What ?
MARY: What does a man usually tell a girl ?
MARY: All right you do n't love me . So let it go at that .
CLAY: What did you expect ? Speeches I do n't mean ?
MARY: I do n't expect anything . A minute ago I had n't cuite waked up . She stands . He rises to face her .
CLAY: If it 's pretty speeches you want , you wo n't be hearing them . Even when I mean 'em , they do n't come easy .
MARY: Save 'em for the girl in gingham . Just tell me I 'm not good enough fo you . Go on . Say a woman like me ca n't change .
CLAY: All right it 's said !
MARY: Then let 's get started . The sooner I get to Sonora , the better I 'll like it . Turning she starts down toward camp .
HELEN: You 're sure there 's more where this came from ?
FOWLER: Plenty more . And somewhere up there 's the lode , the rock rotten with it .
HELEN: Pretty , is n't it ? And all you have to do is shovel sand into a thing and the river does the work .
MARY: Give it back to him . We 're leavin ' .
HELEN: Maybe you are . I 'm not . She reaches over and pats Fowler 's hand .
FOWLER: I figure we 'll get along just fine .
HELEN: Well cheer , why do n't you ? No more esponsibilities , Mary . Marcia Elaine me all taken care of . Down there feeding horses and raising kids , you wo n't have a thing to worry about .
MARY: I 'm not raising horses or kids fo anybody . I 'm opening the slickest gambling house in California with a crystal chandelier , the biggest you ever saw
HELEN: Sounds fine . Only that is n't how it 's going to be . Helen juggles the poke in her hand .
MARY: That 's it then .
FOWLER: That 's it . She 's staying with me for keeps .
MARY: If there were more men like you , there would n't be so many of us .
FOWLER: Thanks .
MARY: It 's nice to meet a man who does n't want to own a woman from the day she was born . I never had the luck . The only kind I 've run into were tramps or dirty-minded hypocrites . Clay moves up beside Mary .
CLAY: She 's aimin ' at me , but her aim 's ad . Want to know why I changed my mind about bringing you ? Because I talked to Elaine because I was afraid to leave you with decent people , that 's why . And you 'll open your joint all ight . You would n't fit anywhere else . He moves on past her , motions to Steve .
HELEN: Mary , Honey . I talked too much , like always he thinks you told Elaine the things I told her .
MARY: I do n't care what he thinks .
STEVE: Clay look ! Clay swings around .
CLAY: Mary
MARY: No , I 'm not all right . I 'm soaked and I hit myself against that rock .
CLAY: I suppose that 's my fault .
MARY: All my clothes
CLAY: That 's right worry about you clothes
CLAY: What about my wagon . Of all the crazy fool things to do . You lose a man 's wagon because you 're stupid and then yell about your clothes .
MARY: For the wagon . Clay looks at Mary , then down at the money .
CLAY: There wo n't be any rest of the trip . Over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along . So keep your money . You 'll need it fo the fare . I 'm fed up with you . I was fed up with you before we started .
MCCALL: We got company . Female company .
LEDNOV: Yeah , we sure have . He turns to scan the river .
HELEN: You can put this out of the way , Jed . It 's empty .
FOWLER: What do you want ?
LEDNOV: I saw your fire and dropped by to say hello .
FOWLER: Well , say it .
LEDNOV: What 's the matter restless ?
FOWLER: Yes , people make me restless .
LEDNOV: Even women ?
FOWLER: There are n't any women here .
LEDNOV: I suppose that 's your wagon in the iver .
FOWLER: Some people who went by this way lost it . Two men and some women . They packed their stuff on horses and went on .
LEDNOV: And you 're all alone .
FOWLER: Yeah .
LEDNOV: Suppose I take a look .
FOWLER: Go ahead .
MCCALL: Looking for something ?
LEDNOV: Hold it , Mac .
LEDNOV'S VOICE: Get up . Cautiously Helen starts moving away .
LEDNOV: Come on . Where 'd the women go ?
FOWLER: They went on like I told you .
LEDNOV'S VOICE: How long ago ?
FOWLER: Five , six hours . A twig snaps underfoot . Helen freezes .
LEDNOV: Sit down . All right , Peters , come on over here .
PETERS: You keep your hands off .
HELEN: Let him alone !
LEDNOV: How do you know who we are ?
HELEN: Everybody knows
LEDNOV: Who brought you here ?
HELEN: Stop it
LEDNOV: Where is he ?
HELEN: Up the trail . In a fury , Lednov crushes her arm .
LEDNOV: How far up the trail ?
HELEN: I do n't know I do n't know .
PETERS: You did n't have to do that .
LEDNOV: Why not ? She might have got to Clay Phillips before I did .
STEVE: Are you all right ?
MARY: For the last ten miles I 've been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up . I 'm getting to the point where I do n't think there 's any place named Sonora .
STEVE: It 's a long ways yet . I figure we ought to camp . She 's tired .
CLAY: So am I and so are the horses .
MARY: If you want to go on , I can make it all right .
CLAY: Like I said , I was thinkin ' of the horses .
STEVE: You stretch out . I 'll fix something to eat .
MARY: Thanks , Steve .
CLAY: If you want 'em to find us , why do n't you go up on the hill and wave you shirt or fire your rifle .
STEVE: I did n't stop to think , Clay .
CLAY: You better start .
STEVE: Maybe you and me better split up when we hit Sonora . Clay speaks without looking up .
CLAY: All right , I hurt your feelings . But you know better than to go lightin ' fires .
STEVE: That ai n't why . I just figure it 's about time to start runnin ' my own life .
CLAY: Maybe you 're not hungry , but I am .
STEVE: I 'll eat when I 'm good and ready .
CLAY: Kind of feeling your oats this morning . I have n't laid a hand on you for quite a while , but that does n't mean you 're too old .
STEVE: What makes you think you 're so almighty ? Telling people what to do and how to act when you do n't even know how yourself .
STEVE: You ai n't even man enough to own up when you 're wrong . Clay rises and stands facing Steve .
CLAY: Sit down and eat . Till I say the word , you 're doing what you 're told .
STEVE: You oughta say you 're sorry that 's what you oughta do .
CLAY: You keep your nose out of my life , young fella .
STEVE: Maybe I have n't lived as long as you have , but I know a sight more about people and I would n't talk to a mule like you talked to her and , if I did , I 'd say how sorry I was . I 'd be man enough to do that .
CLAY: I said keep your nose out of my life . No kid is going to tell me how to un it .
STEVE: You think you 're so slmighty smart Who are you to sit up there and say nobody 's good enough for you , like you said yesterday just because a man kisses a woman
STEVE'S VOICE: does n't mean he wants to marry her .
STEVE: Well , if you did n't mean it , why did you kiss her ?
CLAY: Shut up and eat .
MARY: Stop it both of you .
CLAY: I 'm sorry .
STEVE: You do n't know what it is to be sorry .
MARY: Steve
MARY: Maybe it is n't going to Sonora , but it 's going somewhere , which is all ight with me .
CLAY: It 's going to Sonora .
MARY: Fine maybe I 'll see you there sometime .
CLAY: I said a lot of things some of 'em
MARY: Some of 'em you did n't mean but most of 'em you did . I do n't blame you ecause I understand your way of thinking and why you think that way . You want your women on pedestals . But they have to be born on 'em they can fall off but they ca n't climb back up .
CLAY: I ca n't help how I think . You 're trained a certain way when you 're a kid and you ca n't change . He bends down and picks up her things .
MARY: I ca n't change either . Not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand .
CLAY: Hurry up . He starts off , Mary following .
MARY: I 'm fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will . Somebody who wants me as I am will maybe walk into the place where I 'm working and take me out of there .
CLAY: Maybe they will . He waves for the stage to stop .
CLAY: Mind giving a lady a lift into town ?
DRIVER: Climb right in .
CLAY: Will you be seeing the sheriff ?
DRIVER: Depot 's right next to his office .
STEVE: Goodbye , ma'am . Mary reaches down and takes his hand .
MARY: Goodbye , Steve . Do n't fight with him any more .
CLAY: Goodbye , Mary .
MARY: By the way , if you ever go past the Wyatt ranch , have another talk with Elaine .
STEVE: You know what she asked me ?
CLAY: I do n't care what she asked you .
STEVE: She told me not to fight with you anymore . She said it was n't you fault , but I figure different Clay is looking off , hardly listening .
CLAY: You want to split up ? Clay 's eyes are narrow , peering toward
CLAY: Why wait ? Go on , saddle up now and beat it . Steve looks over toward the horses , stalling .
STEVE: Half of them are mine .
CLAY: You 'll get your share . Go on . I do n't want you around .
CLAY: What did you come back for ?
STEVE: Like I told you , half those horses are mine . I 'm makin ' sure they get to the ranch safe . So let 's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin ' . The two brothers stare at each other .
CLAY: Is that the only reason you came ack ?
STEVE: Sure . What other reason would there e ?
CLAY: I just wondered . Let 's go .
LEDNOV: Go on down and have a look .
PETERS: And get my head blown off ! Not me .
MCCALL: Call it .
PETERS: Heads .
LEDNOV: And you ! Get going .
CLAY: Stick here .
LEDNOV: Come on out , Phillips .
LEDNOV: Those horses down there they do n't amount to much to me . Look at the one with the bell .
LEDNOV: Next time I wo n't miss .
LEDNOV'S VOICE: Watch the one with the white face .
CLAY'S VOICE: I 'm here Lednov .
CLAY: Come on out .
LEDNOV'S VOICE: Come and get me .
CLAY: How 's that ?
STEVE: Kind of sore .
CLAY: You 'll live .
STEVE: Guess maybe I 'm old enough to hold my own in a fight , huh ?
CLAY: Yeah but do n't make a habit of it .
STEVE: So maybe I 'm old enough to tell you how to run your life ?
CLAY: I guess so but do n't make a habit of it .
STEVE: Well , then , I know it takes three four weeks for you to come round to admit when you 're wrong But by that time she 's liable to be in China
DOCTOR: Hold her steady . I 'm not hurting him .
STEVE: Maybe you 're not , but I 'll sure be glad when you stop pokin ' me .
MARY: Is it very bad ?
DOCTOR: Course not . A scratch .
MARY: Holding the lamp .
DOCTOR: Then hold it a little lower . Mary lowers the lamp .
CLAY: Thanks for taking over .
MARY: Thanks for loading me on the stage . I know now why you did it .
CLAY: Like I said , women get in the way sometimes .
STEVE'S VOICE: He tried to get rid of me , too , Miss Wells .
DOCTOR: Keep still , will you .
MARY: Goodnight .
STEVE: Goodnight , Miss Wells .
MARY: If you need me , I 'll be Clay straightens and turns .
CLAY: Where you going ?
MARY: To the other side of the street . She opens the door and starts out .
CLAY: Mary .
CLAY: That job you were talkin ' about , did you get it yet ?
MARY: Why ?
CLAY: Because well , you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there tonight I was sort of tied up with Steve ut tomorrow I figured on doing just that .
MARY: I have n't got the job yet . They look at each other .
CLAY: Is there any place in town a man could buy some gingham ?
STACY: We should play War . It 's more fun .
JEFF: That 's not even a game .
STACY: Sure it is . I 'll teach you .
JEFF: I know how to play . I mean it 's just chancethere 's no skill involved .
STACY: But I keep losing .
JEFF: 'Cause you 're not concentrating .
STACY: I would n't have to concentrate if we played War .
JEFF: Exactly . So where 's the fun ?
STACY: I 'd win sometimes . It 's not fun if we both ca n't win .
JEFF: But it 's not winning if it 's just chance .
STACY: Of course it is . If we flipped a coin , and I called heads , and it
ERIC: Fuck.. ; this.. shit .
STACY: Maybe you should just be honest , sweetie .
AMY: Why would they hire you if you have n't read the books ?
ERIC: I said I had .
JEFF: So maybe you should..
ERIC: The Canterbury Tales ? You eve look at that shit ?
JEFF: I 've read it .
ERIC: Fuck off . It 's not even English .
JEFF: This world nys but a thurghfare ful of wo , and we been pilgrymes , passing to and fro . Deeth is an ende of every worldly soore .
AMY: I 'm fine . I 've got a base .
JEFF: You 're burning . I can see it .
ANY: I 'm just flushed . It 's too hot .
JEFF: You 're hot because you 're burning .
AMY: It 's only been
STACY: So there was this king , who lived in a castle . Amy turns , gives her a pained look .
AMY: Please do n't .
ERIC: But what he really wanted was a each house .
AMY: Stop it . Both of you . Right now .
STACY: So he decided to move .
ERIC: But the Queen did n't want to .
STACY: So he left by himself .
ERIC: But he got lonely .
AMY: Shit .
STACY: So he bought a dog .
ERIC: But it had fleas .
AMY: I lost my earring .
STACY: So he gave it a bath .
ERIC: But the dog caught . cold .
STACY: So he gave it some medicine .
ERIC: But it was the wrong kind .
STACY: So the dog died .
AMY: Thank you so much .
JEFF: Wait . . .want a beer ?
ERIC: We went sailing yesterday . Out toward Cozumel ? And there were these seven foot fish , these huge
JEFF: Nurse sharks .
ERIC: Like thirty of them . A whole , you know , flock .
JEFF: School .
ERIC: The water was , I do n't know , ten feet deep ? And they were lying on the bottom , just waiting fo somebody to come swimming by
JEFF: They 're not dangerous . Eric turns , stares at Jeff .
ERIC: You said they 're sharks .
JEFF: But they 're not dangerous . They eat lobsters . Sea urchins . That sort of thing .
ERIC: I would n't be snorkeling on my own . ' That 's all I 'm saying .
MATHIAS: I was n't on my own . I was with my other . Jeff glances around the pool .
JEFF: He 's here ? Mathias shakes his head .
MATHIAS: He met a girl . They went away .
JEFF: To ?
MATHIAS: It 's a complicated story .
ERIC: You should hang with us , then . If you 're on your own . Right ?
AMY: Dance .
ERIC: Jeff does n't dance , Amyhe has no hythm . Of all his many gifts , hythm is not one .
AMY: That 's not true . He played the trombone in high school . He won a prize . Eric seems startled by this , amused .
ERIC: Seriously ?
AMY: Jeff 's won prizes for everything . His Mom has a whole room built just for them . Trophies and ribbons and plaques . He 's a very accomplished young man . ( she holds out her hand-to
ERIC: You ?
STACY: Or grass . Or cement . Or carpet .
ERIC: I dance on teak .
AMY: Teak ?
ERIC: It 's a type of wood . Very rare . Find me a teak floor and I 'll be a dancing fool .
STACY: I 'll dance .
JEFF: I 'm gon na head back . Eric gives him a look of disappointment ,
ERIC: You 're kidding . Jeff seems STARTLED by this
JEFF: What ?
ERIC: How long is med school ? Fou years ? Jeff nods . ERIC And then you got , whaddya call it , esidency ? Another nod . Eric turns toward Mathias . ERIC He 's gon na be grinding away all that time . Sleepless . Fucking miserable . And know what ? He 's gon na look back on this night , us ight here , and he 's gon na say to himself , shit , I wish I 'd
JEFF: Gone to bed earlier .
ERIC: All work and no play
JEFF: Makes a man healthy , wealthy , and wise .
ERIC: Amy drifts sometimes , when she drinks .
MATHIAS: Drifts ?
ERIC: Like a boatshe bumps into othe oats .
MATHIAS: I have to catch a bus .
JEFF: To ?
MATHIAS: The girl my brother met was on he way to this place , to work . It 's a digan archaeological dig . And he went with her . He left the map , saying I could come , too , if I got bored on my own .
JEFF: And you do n't ?
MATHIAS: Henrich does n't think things through . He runs at them . He 's ( he searches , shakes his
HEAD: There 's a word in English , but I ca n't remember it .
JEFF: impetuous ?
MATHIAS: So I have to be
JEFF: Responsible .
MATHIAS: All our lives , the same story . Jeff.slides the map back toward him .
JEFF: It 's what ? One of those pyramids ?
MATHIAS: An old mining camp .
JEFF: De oro ? 0 plata ? Mathias just stares at him . JEFF You do n't speak Spanish ? Mathias shakes his head . JEFF So how will you find this place ?
MATHIAS: Follow the m ap .
JEFF: Well , good luck .
AMY: I 'm fine .
JEFF: You do n't look fine .
AMY: Thank you . That 's very helpful .
JEFF: We 'll be back by nightfall . You can just
AMY: You do n't want me to come ?
JEFF: That 's not what I 'm saying .
AMY: So what 're you saying ?
JEFF: You 're hungover , under slept ,
AMY: I 'm not sunburned .
JEFF: .All right . My mistake .
AMY: I 'll get too sweaty .
JEFF: There 's gon na be mosquitoes .
AMY: We do n't even know this guy .
JEFF: And ?
AMY: I just do n't see why we have to go with him .
JEFF: If you and I were traveling together , somewhere you did n't speak the language , and I 'd vanished somehow , would n't you want someone to help find me ?
AMY: Why would you vanish ?
JEFF: Are n't you getting bored ? Honestly . The beach , the pool , the each , the pool . This 'll be fun . An adventure .
AMY: Why do you keep saying that ?
AMY: It 's like you 'd rather I did n't
ERIC: Ready ? The both answer at the same time
JEFF: Now or never , Any . .We 're gon na miss the bus .
ERIC: Now what ?
MATHIAS: We take a cab . To here .
ERIC: How far ?
MATHIAS: Eighteen kilometers .
STACY: How many miles is that ? They all glance at Jeff . He shrugs .
JEFF: Eleven . A little more .
MATHIAS: Then there 'll be a path . Which we hikefour kilometers .
JEFF: Two and a half miles .
ANY: I do n't see any cabs .
JEFF: Hola .
DRIVER: Why you go this place ?
JEFF: There are these ruins . This old mining camp ?
DRIVER: Fifteen dollar , I take you ruins .
JEFF: To here ?
DRIVER: This place no good .
JEFF: No good ?
DRIVER: No good you go . Fifteen dollar I take you good place . You like , I promise .
JEFF: How about we pay you fifteen dollars to go here ?
DRIVER: I tell you no good . Still you go ?
JEFF: We 're looking for his brother . Su hermano ?
DRIVER: El dinero .
JEFF: Gracias , senor !
AMY: How do we get back ?
JEFF: The guidebook said you can always flag down a passing bus . So I
AMY: There are n't going to be any buses on that road .
JEFF: It also said you can hitch
AMY: See any cars pass , Jeff ?
STACY: Eric has his phone . Ca n't we just call someone ?
AMY: He 's not gon na get a signal . Not way out here .
JEFF: They must-have a way to get supplies in .
AMY: Who ?
JEFF: The archaeologists . They must have a truck . Or access to a truck . When we find Mathias 's brother , we can just ask them to take us all ack to Coba . Right ? Mathias seems startled by the question .
MATHIAS: I guess I mean , I
AMY: We 're stranded , are n't we ? That 's , like , a twenty mile walk we 're gon na have to do . Through the jungle .
JEFF: Eleven .
AMY: What ?
JEFF: It 's eleven miles .
AMY: There 's no way that was eleven miles .
JEFF: Let 's just find this place , okay ? Then we can figure out how to get ack . Amy is silent . Jeff turns to the others . JEFF Ready ?
STACY: Just go with it , honey . You 'll seeit 'll all work out .
ERIC: But she did n't know how to play .
STACY: So she signed up for lessons .
ERIC: But she could n't afford them . Stacy reaches , taps Mathias 's shoulder .
STACY: You can play , too . If you want .
ERIC: But was fired for being late .
AMY: It 's annoying .
STACY: So she became a prostitute .
AMY: It 's tedious and boring . And once they start , it 's impossible to get them to stop .
ERIC: But she fell in love with her first client .
AMY: How much farther ?
STACY: Me , too .
AMY: I think we should- Jeff stops suddenly , pointing .
JEFF: The stream .
ERIC: Fucking smells .
JEFF: They must use it as a latrine .
ERIC: Who ?
JEFF: The village . The Mayans .
MATHIAS: Right after , it says .
AMY: Look .
ERIC: Why do n't we
AMY: Why was it covered ? Jeff lifts his hands how should he know ?
STACY: Maybe it 's not the right path .
JEFF: It 's on the map .
AMY: It 's a hand-drawn map , Jeff .
STACY: And it was hidden . Why would it be hidden ?
JEFF: Maybe the archaeologists do n't want people to find the mine .
AMY: Because ? Jeff has to think . Finally
JEFF: Maybe they 've dug up something valuable . Emeralds or something . Or silver . Whatever they were mining in the first place . And they do n't want anyone to come ro them . So they 've asked the Mayans to help keep people away .
MATHIAS: Not far .
JEFF: Be silly to stop now , do n't you think ? No one answers ; no one moves .
ANY: This just feels weird , Jeff .
JEFF: So we what ? Turn around ? Walk all the way back to Coba ?
ERIC: Maybe the ruins are sacred . You know ? And they do n't want people digging them up .
JEFF: It 's a mine . An old mining camp .
ERIC: So ?
JEFF: There 's nothing sacred about it .
ERIC: Maybe it leads to a marijuana field , then . Maybe the village is growing pot , and that boy rode off to get them , and they 're gon na come with guns and
AMY: Eric .
ERIC: What ?
AMY: Shut up , okay ?
STACY: It 's beautiful .
AMY: So beautiful .
STACY: And the mosquitoes are gone . You ealize that ? They 've stopped iting .
MATHIAS: Is that a tent ? He points .
JEFF: A horse .
STACY: What 's he saying ?
ERIC: Maybe he wants money ? A toll o something ?
JEFF: Dinero ?
JEFF: Why do n't you hike up , see if you can find him ? We 'll try to sort this out .
ERIC: What the fuck ?
JEFF: Quiet .
JEFF: Wait . Wait and see .
JEFF: Do n't move .
ERIC: Nothing..
MATHIAS: HenrichI
ERIC: There 's another one . He points toward the clearing below them .
STACY: He 's got a gun , Eric .
MATHIAS: Henrich1
JEFF: Hello ?
ERIC: What 's inside ?
JEFF: Nothing . Some camping supplies .
AMY: The mine ?
ERIC: Now what ?
JEFF: Keep going , I guess .
STACY: What do we do ? Jeff shrugs , starts forward again .
JEFF: We 'll see .
AMY: So .
ERIC: We should rush them . All at once .
STACY: Shut Up , Eric .
ERIC: Or go make shields . If we had some shields , we could
ANY: Oh my god .
STACY: Let 's go back up .
MATHIAS: It 's my brother .
JEFF: I know .
MATHIAS: They killed him .
JEFF: Shh . Not here . Up the hill , okay ?
ERIC: We can sneak past once the sun- ' sets , I bet . You know ? Just reep y them in the dark ?
AMY: The girl ?
ERIC: The one his brother met . What happened to her ?
AMY: Stop it , Eric .
ERIC: What ?
AMY: Just stop , okay ? Stop talking .
ERIC: What happened ?
JEFF: There 's something in the plants . The sapit burned his skin .
AMY: But I 'm thirsty .
JEFF: We all are .
AMY: So let 's drink . Jeff shakes his head , capping the bottle .
JEFF: We do n't have that much . We need to ration it . We 'll have to figure out a way to catch the rain .
AMY: I 'm hungover . I 'm sunburned . I lost my hat . I need some water .
JEFF: Fine . Let 's vote . But first you should understand that each of us is gon na need half a gallon of water a day , at a minimum , to survive here . That 's two and a half gallons total , every day . And right now , until it ains , we do n't have it . Okay ? Not even one day 's worth . Now who wants to give Amy more water ?
STACY: Maybe we should just wait , honey .
ANY: Till ? Everyone looks toward Jeff .
JEFF: Another hour or so . Then we 'll all have a sip . Okay ?
STACY: Ca n't we sneak away when it gets dark ? Eric said we
JEFF: They keep coming . More and more of them . They 're all armed , and the ald one sends them out along the clearing . They 're surrounding us .
ERIC: Why do n't they just kill us ?
JEFF: It 's got something to do with the hill , I think . Once you step on it , you 're not allowed off . Something like that . They wo n't step on it themselves , but now that we 're here , they wo n't let us leave . So we have to figure out a way to survive till someone comes and finds-us .
AMY: Who ? Jeff lifts one hand , palm-up , half a shrug .
JEFF: People 'll start to worry when we do n't return home . Right ? And
AMY: We 're not supposed to leave till Friday . Jeff nods . AMY And they 'll have to come searching . Again , he nods . AMY So you 're talkingwhat , a week ?
.JEFF: Something like that . Amy looks appalled ; her voice JUMPS
AMY: We ca n't live here for a week , Jeff .
JEFF: If we try to leave , they 'll shoot us . That 's the one thing we know for certain .
AMY: But what will we eat ? How will we
STACY: A cell phone .
AMY: It ca n't be
JEFF: That 's a cell phone , Amy . Definitely .
.AMY: But there 's no signal out here . Eric ca n't get a signal .
JEFF: It could be a different network . Something local .
AMY: Way down in that hole ? How could it pick it up ? Still another RING .
ERIC: What else can it be ?
JEFF: There 's a lamp in the orange tent . See if you can find some matches , too .
AMY: Jeff .
JEFF: Pull him up !
MATHIAS: What is it ?
ERIC: Oh , Jesus . Oh , fuck .
AMY: Is he
JEFF: He 's moaning .
AMY: Go ? Jeff nods , waving into the shaft .
JEFF: Down . We 'll clear the vine off the ope . And you can
AMY: Why ca n't you ? Or Eric ?
JEFF: We have to work the crank . You wo n't be strong enough .
STACY: I can do it .
RELIEVED: You sure ?
JEFF: Mathias ? More SILENCE . Jeff turns to the girls . JEFF See if you can find a knife . And another lamp . '
ERIC: You okay ?
JEFF: Ready ?
STACY: What ?
JEFF: We have to figure out a way to lengthen the rope . We 're gon na pull you up . He pulls his head away .
STACY: Wait ! The rope has almost stopped its swaying .
JEFF: You ca n't . We have to
STACY: I 'm sorry . Oh , God . I 'm so sorry .
ERIC: Stacy ?
JEFF: What happened to the lamp ?
STACY: Mathias ?
JEFF: We need fifteen feet . Twenty to be safe .
ERIC: The clothes ? From the backpacks ? We could knot them together ?
JEFF: Would they hold ?
ERIC: Bad ?
STACY: My shoe 's full of blood .
JEFF: Put pressure on it . Use my shirt . They all stare down at her , waiting .
MATHIAS: Mylegs
STACY: Hey
MATHIAS: Ca n't move mylegs
JEFF: What about the tents ? We could take one down , cut the nylon into strips .
ERIC: Would it be strong enough ?
JEFF: we can braid themthree strips fo each section . Then knot the sections together , for strength .
AMY: Oh no . Please no . Jeff turns to her .
JEFF: How can we make a backboard ?
AMY: No , Jeff . No way . We ca n't move him .
JEFF: One of the frames from the ackpacks ? And the tent poles . There 's tape in the orange tent .
AMY: We 'll make it worse . Well jostle him , and he 'll
JEFF: We ca n't just leave him down there . You know that , do n't you ?
AMY: we have to tell them .
JEFF: Who ?
AMY: The Mayans . We have to tell them what 's happened .
JEFF: They 're not gon na -
AMY: We have to may . We have to
JEFF: Amy ! But she 's gone . Jeff turns to Eric . JEFF Stay here .
AMY: Help us . Please . Someone 's been hurt . He Jeff comes to a halt , five feet behind her .
JEFF: They ca n't understand you . She turns , her voice quickened with PANIC
AMY: Say it in Spanish . Tell them he
JEFF: They do n't speak Spanish .
AMY: Try it . You have to try .
JEFF: They killed Henrich . Why would-
AMY: Help usi We need help !
JEFF: We have to get back .
AMY: I did n't want to come . I told you we should n't . I said
JEFF: Listen to me . Mathias needs ou help . Right now . He
AMY: We should n't even be here . Why did you say we 'd come ? You have to do something . You have to ! It 's your fault . It 's all your
JEFF: YD-q stepped onto the hill . Amy stares at him , startled into silence . JEFF They would n't have forced us up it if you had n't .
AMY: I did n't know . I just
JEFF: They 're not going to .
AMY: They have to .
ERIC: Maybe we could use it as a weapon , you know ? Wrap it around some stones or something . And throw them , like grenades . I mean , if they 're that scared of it
JEFF: They have guns , Eric . And bows . What do you think they 'll do if we start throwing the vine at them ?
AMY: I 'm okay .
JEFF: Come on . You 're burning .
STACY: No .
AMY: Almost . A few more feet .
STACY: We 'll have to send it back up , I guess .
AMY: If he twists
STACY: It 's only a few feet .
AMY: We 're gon na try itt
STACY: You sure ?
AMY: If you lift from his feet , he 'll end at the waist .
STACY: But if I lift at his hips , wo n't he arch his back ?
AMY: His knees .
STACY: I have to pee .
AMY: You okay ?
ERIC: Should n't we carry him into the tent first ?
JEFF: We ca n't .
ERIC: Because ?
JEFF: He 's gon na keep leaking urine .
AMY: But we ca n't just leave him out in the open .
JEFF: We 'll rig a shelter . With what 's left of the blue tent .
STACY: Amy ? what ?
AMY: Shh .
STACY: He 's never gon na walk again.. He 's
AMY: Do n't , Stacy . Do n't talk . It 'll only make things worse . Stacy falls silent . AMY Just go to sleep , okay ? Let 's try to go to sleep .
ERIC: What 're you doing ?
JEFF: We have to keep him clean .
ERIC: If what does ?
JEFF: If he dies here . infection . Blood poisoningsomething like that . Eric seems startled by this .
ERIC: You think he 's gon na die ?
JEFF: His back is broken . Who knows what else .
ERIC: Down ?
JEFF: Into the shaft . Try to find the phone again .
ERIC: There 's no oil for the lamp . Jeff waves toward the orange tent .
JEFF: There 's tequila . We could pour it on some of the clothes , tie them around one of these poles , make a torch .
AMY: The same .
JEFF: And you ?
AMY: Tired . Thirsty . Hungry .
JEFF: Once the others are up , we 'll have some water .
ANY: What is it ?
JEFF: Bodies . All of them .
AMY: Birds ?
JEFF: it 's dawnthere should be birds .
BEFUDDLED: What ?
STACY: Oh my god
JEFF: Stay with him . Then he ducks in through the tent 's flap .
ERIC: The vine . It 's inside her . Stacy points to her wound , SOBBING now
STACY: Cut it out . You got ta cut it out .
JEFF: The blade 's dirty . We should Stacy starts shaking her head , FRANTIC
STACY: It 's moving ! Ca n't you see ?
JEFF: It 's gon na hurt .
STACY: Please . Hurry .
JEFF: Get me a shirt or something .
MATHIAS: Something 's wrong
AMY: It 's okay . It 's just
MATHIAS: my-legs
AMY: I know . You 're hurt . But we're. , gon na get you
MATHIAS: Show me
AMY: Shh . But he fights her ; he wo n't be quieted
STACY: I can still feel it .
JEFF: I got it out .
STACY: I can feel it moving .
JEFF: That 's just your body . Your muscle twitching .
ERIC: It 's on our clothes .
JEFF: They must 've dug it up .
ANY: Who ?
JEFF: The miners .
ERIC: We have to find the phone . We have to go back down and Jeff makes a calming motion .
JEFF: We 'll eat first . Drink some water . We have to stay calm . Not rush at things .
AMY: What about Mathias ?
JEFF: He would n't be able to stomach it .
STACY: It 's still in there . I can feel it .
JEFF: I told you . I got it out .
ERIC: Eat , Stacy . You have to eat .
STACY: See ? How puffy it is ?
ERIC: That 's just swelling . It 's natural . Right ?
JEFF: It 's what happens when you get hurt .
ERIC: The phone . Let 's find the phone .
JEFF: We need to take care of Mathias , first . He wo n't last much longe like that .
ANY: Shh .
JEFF: We have to cut them off .
ERIC: Cut what off ?
JEFF: His legs .
ERIC: You 're joking .
JEFF: He 'll die if we do n't .
AMY: Without anaesthesia ?
JEFF: There wo n't be any pain . He has no feeling beneath his waist .
ERIC: He 'll lose too much blood .
JEFF: The tourniquets are already in place . We 'll cut below them .
ERIC: With what ?
JEFF: We could break the bones . Then cut . Amy is shaking her head ; she looks mortified .
AMY: No , Jeff . No way .
ERIC: What about infection ? Cutting into him with a dirty knife ?
JEFF: We 'll sterilize it . Build a fire . Heat the blade in the flames . It 'll cauterize as it cuts .
AMY: You 'll kill him .
JEFF: Or save him . One or the other . We ca n't just
STACY: Cut me first . Right here .
ERIC: There 's nothing there , Stacy . It 's
STACY: It 's moving . I can feel it moving .
ERIC: You 're imagining it . You 're scared , and you
STACY: I got ta get out of here . I got ta get to a hospital . I got ta
ERIC: You have to calm down . Can you do that ? Can you try to calm down ?
STACY: See if there 's a signal .
ERIC: A what ?
STACY: Your phone . Check your phone . Eric does n't move he knows there 's no point . STACY Check it .
ERIC: We go back down . We find the othe phone . We call for help . That 's how we get out of here . That 's how we save him .
JEFF: It'11 take too long .
ERIC: One call , Jeff . They 'll be here by sundown .
JEFF: And Mathias will already be dying . You understand ? There 's no flesh covering his bones . They 're
MATHIAS: Doit
JEFF: With the stone . Then I 'll use the knife to cut .
MATHIAS: Stopstop
ERIC: Oh , Jesus . Jesus Christ .
AMY: He felt it , did n't he ? The whole thing . Jeff lifts the canteen away .
JEFF: He could n't have .
AMY: He was screaming . Be was telling you to stop .
JEPF: It was just seeing it . Looking down , and
AMY: This is bad , Jeff . So bad .
JEFF: We 've bought him some time . He would n't have
AMY: You cut off his legs ! You
JEFF: Leave it .
STACY: Who ?
JEFF: Who what ?
STACY: Who 's going ?
JEFF: You and Amy .
STACY: No , Jeff . No way . Not me .
JEFF: We 've already been through this . Eric and I need to work the winch . You 're not strong enough .
ERIC: It 's clear .
STACY: Why ca n't Amy go on her own ?
JEFF: The torch wo n't last that long . We need you both there , searching .
STACY: I 'm not going . I ca n't .
JEFF: You do n't have a choice , Stacy .
AMY: It 's okay . I 'll go alone .
JEFF: if we do n't find the phone , Mathias will die . Understand ?
JEFF: Jeff ignores him , his gaze on Stacy .
ERIC: Come on , man . She 's too scared .
JEFF: I do n't give a fuck . I 'm scared , too . We all are .
ERIC: it was inside her .
JEFF: And we got it out . Now she needs to stop being such a fucking baby , stop being so selfish , and
ERIC: , hut Up . Okay ?
JEFF: Hard ?
ERIC: Just leave her be .
JEFF: I 'm the only one thinking . I 'm carrying the whole fucking load .
ERIC: So stop . Lay it down .
JEFF: This is n't just going to work out on its own , Eric . You know ? Magically ?
ERIC: I 'm not saying
JEFF: We could end up dead here . All of us . Is that what you want ?
ERIC: Of course not .
JEFF: Then get the fuck out of my way , and start helping me .
AMY: . '-11 be right there . Okay ? We 'll e together the whole time .
JEFF: Get in the sling , Amy . Amy turns , reaching for the sling .
AMY: Pull it up !
STACY: Hurry .
AMY: Wait
STACY: It 's right here . I can Amy jumps forward , reaching for her .
IT'S: Stop !
STACY: What ?
ANY: It 's the vine . The flowers . They 're making the noise .
STACY: No . It 's
AMY: You .
STACY: Check your phone .
ERIC: Shh .
AMY: It 's okay , sweetie . You 're okay .
STACY: I wanner go home . I wan na leave
ERIC: Shh
AMY: Stacy
ERIC: But she was scared of heights .
AMY: So she became a lifeguard instead . ( she squeezes Stacy 's
HAND: Come on . Your turn .
JEFF: But she could n't swim .
AMY: So she wore a life vest . ( she squeezes Stacy 's hand
AGAIN: Come on . Now you .
STACY: But everyone
AMY: Yeah ? Everyone what ?
STACY: They laughed at her .
AMY: Good . That 's good . So she
JEFF: It does n't fucking matter .
AMY: There was water in it .
JEFF: How much , Amy ? Two and a half gallons ? 'Cause that 's what we need . For todayjust to make it through today . And then tomorrow the same all over again . And fo how long ? Another week before ou parents start searching ? And then what ? How long till they track us to Coba ? Or to this fucking hill ? How long will it take , Amy ?
AMY: You said
JEFF: It 's not gon na happen . We 're not gon na make it .
AMY: Do n't , Jeff .
JEFF: But they did n't have any water .
AMY: Please , do n't .
JEFF: So they 're gon na die of thirst . Amy covers her ears with her hands .
AMY: Shut up !
JEFF: But this fucking vine might kill them first .
JEFF: I 'm sorry I 'm sorry .
ERIC: What about the vine ?
JEFF: I do n't think it can hurt us . Not directly . if it could , it already would 've , would n't it ? Why would it wait ?
AMY: He 's gon na die , is n't he ? if there 's no phone , then there 's no
STACY: Me , too .
JEFF: Do n't , Stacy . Do n't start . She jumps up , begins to pace , agitated .
STACY: It 's inside me . In my leg . My chest . I can feel it . Right here..
JEFF: Put it down .
STACY: I 'll show you .
JEFF: Give it to me . Right now . Amy and Eric stand , too .
JEFF: a il h f down i
ERIC: Do n't yell . she 's just scared .
JEFF: what 're you doing ?
ERIC: Just a sip . To calm her .
JEFF: It 'll dehydrate-her .
ERIC: A sip , Jeff .
JEFF: I said Q .
STACY: Leave him alone .
JEFF: You realize how stupid you 're eing ? Sticking that dirty knife
STACY: It 's growing .
JEFF: of ina's.inside you . You 're imagining it , and you just
STACY: I 'm gon na end up like her . That girl . I 'm gon na
JEFF: Get infected . Understand ? You 're gon na get yourself killed .
STACY: You 're not listening .
ERIC: What the
AMY: The Mayans .
JEFF: Noit 's the vine . It 's mimicking her .
STACY: Make it stop .
STACY: Please . Make it stop .
STACY: Shut up !
STACY: Shut up ! Shut up !
ANY: Now is he ?
ERIC: I still have forty minutes .
AMY: I do n't mind . I ca n't sleep .
ERIC: Is Stacy ?
AMY: They both are .
ERIC: Jeff cut it out . I saw him .
AMY: But she says she can feel it . Moving . Shifting about . Eric waves this aside .
ERIC: You know how Stacy is . She 's just scared . She gets things in he head , and-
AMY: I 'm sorry I 'm so sorry It 's my fault .
ERIC: what is ?
AMY: If I had n't stepped onto the hill
ERIC: That 's stupid , Amy . That 's
AMY: Jeff said it . He said
ERIC: He did n't mean it . There 's no way . He was just
AMY: We might not have
ERIC: Shh . Do n't .
JEFF: Wh ?
. STACY: What the fuck , Eric ?
ERIC: What ?
STACY: We heard you .
ERIC: Heard me what ?
STACY: Fucking her .
ERIC: What 're you talking about ?
JEFF: The vine . it made it sound as if you two
STACY: You 're so blind .
JEFF: I could hear it . At the back of the tent . It was
STACY: It does n't make things up . It mimics things . Things it 's heard .
JEFF: Then it 's heard someone having sex at some point .
STACY: That was Ay , Jeff . Moaning .
AMY: What ?
JEFF: it 's doing this on purpose . ' Ca n't you see ? It thinks you 're the weakestbecause you 're hurt . So it 's trying to upset you . Trying
STACY: You 're not upset ? He had his arm around her . He Amy leans forward , hands out , BESEECHING
AMY: Nothing happened , Stacy . I was crying . And Eric
STACY: We he-ar you .
JEFF: We heard the vine . It
STACY: You 're such a fool , Jeff . You think she 's never cheated on you ? Perfect little angelic Amy ?
AMY: Stacy .
STACY: I could tell you secrets . I could open your eyes .
AMY: Shi i up . Right now .
STACY: Spring break ? Senior year ?
AMY: You bitch . You stupid cunt . Stacy spins on her , VENOMOUS
STACY: Fuck you . Slut . Twice , Jeff . Two different guys . And one of them Jeff grabs her arm , grips it , silencing hers
JEFF: Enough , Stacy . Stoll .
STACY: Oh , godoh please no
JEFF: They must 've salted the soil . That 's the only way I can think .
AMY: It did n't happen .
JEFF: I know .
AMY: And what she said . About spring eak . I Jeff reaches , presses his finger to her lips .
JEFF: Shh .
AMY: But I want to tell you
JEFF: I wish it mattered .
ERIC: I guess .
JEFF: You 'll have to lift him .
ERIC: Should we say something ?
STACY: Where 's the knife ?
JEFF: Hold her hands .
STACY: I want to see .
JEFF: Should I stop ?
STACY: There 's more of it .
ERIC: There 's nothing there , Stacy .
STACY: It 's under the muscle . Down by the one .
JEFF: You 're losing too much blood . And if any of these get infected-
STACY: My calf , too .
JEFF: No more cutting . Not unless-
STACY: Please , Jeff .
ERIC: You ca n't . You ca n't keep
STACY: It 's everywhere .
AMY: Shh .
STACY: That girl I keep seeing her . When I shut my eyes .
NODDING: I knowI know . Let 's just lie down for a bit . Okay ?
AMY: Oh my God .
JEFF: Give it . Now .
AMY: Please , honey . Just
STACY: I have to get it out . It 's
ANY: Shh .
STACY: Please . Just
ANY: Shh .
STACY: It hurts . It hurts so much .
JEFF: Easy . Try to
STACY: Kill me . I ca n't
AMY: Jeff I
JEFF: It 's okay . I 'm right here . I 'm
AMY: Shh . Shh .
JEFF: Come on . You 'll need the energy .
AMY: I still think we should wait .
JEFF: You 'll only get weaker .
AMY: They 'll come looking . You said
JEFF: Nobody 's coming .
AMY: Our parents
JEFF: All they 'll find are our bones . Amy is silent , staring down at the banana . JEFF We do n't have time for this , Amy . You 'll need as much daylight as possible .
AMY: I do n't want to . I do n't
JEFF: We might .
AMY: How ?
JEFF: It 'll take them a moment to react . If I can make it to the trees
DOCTOR: and collapsed before the drive even managed to open the door .
TERESA: Now do you know ?
DOCTOR: She has no wounds .
TERESA: That 's it ? That 's all you have ?
DOCTOR: I 'm afraid so .
CONSTRUCTION WORKER: Your column should be so funny .
IKE: Okay , I was also thinking I might write about
LADY: I 'm sorry , I do n't know any people like that . Ike walks off . They stare at him as he goes .
IKE: Fisher ? Come on I know you 're sitting there laughing at me . Pick up . I want to run an idea past you .
MAN: I see photos of a lot of dead writers on these walls . Got any living ones ? I have a story to tell that could win one of them a Pulitzer . Picture this , if you will . A small town in Maryland , a sleepy little village , within that a hardware store
WOMAN: So what 's in store for us in tomorrow 's column ?
IKE: I do n't know yet . I 'm kind of a last- minute man . Ideas do n't flow until an hour or two before deadline . The Woman gets up and begins throwing darts .
WOMAN: This is very interesting . You get you ideas for your column from life . You start up a conversation with a woman in a bar , attack her choice of reading material , try and get a rise out of he while you contemplate whether or not she 's worth hitting on .
IKE: No , I ca n't hit on you until I get an idea . She starts throwing darts .
WOMAN: That 's flattering .
IKE: No , you do n't understand .
WOMAN: I think I do understand . So my not esponding to your baiting me will inspire one of those potential bitte diatribes you love to write about women and all the things we do to drive men crazy ?
IKE: I do n't write bitter diatribes about women very often .
WOMAN: Only when the ideas are n't flowing , huh ? Well , it was very nice to meet you , one-minute man . The Woman leaves the bar .
IKE: That 's last minute man . And it 's the quality that counts .
BARTENDER: You know , for a good looking man , you strike out a lot .
MAN: I 've seen much worse .
IKE: Excuse me ?
MAN: The brush-off .
IKE: Not as private as I thought . Ike turns slightly , giving the man his back . IKE Kevin , you 've got some napkins ?
BARTENDER: Writing or wiping ?
IKE: Give me a pen .
MAN: Ah , come on . They deserve it . They love you , they hate you , they 're hot , they 're cold , they 're high , they 're low
IKE: They 're up , they 're down . It 's eally fun making this list with you , ut I 've got a column to go write .
BARTENDER: Ike .
MAN: But you do n't have a really superb idea ! Well , there 's a girl from my hometown you could write about . Ike moves to the Bartender and pays him .
BARTENDER: Excuse me , we do n't need any new ideas .
MAN: She likes to dump grooms right at the altar . They call her `` The Runaway Bride '' . Both Ike and Bartender turn and stare .
IKE: I give up .
MAN: She has the next victim all lined up . She 's twirling another body on the spit .
IKE: `` Today is a day of profound introspection , I have been accused of using this column to direct bitte diatribes at the opposite sex ! This uncomfortable accusation has plunged me into at least fifteen minutes of serious reflection , from which I have emerged with the conclusion that , yes I traffic in female stereotypes . ''
FISHER: `` But how can one blame me when every time I step out my front door I meet fresh proof that the female archetypes are alive and well ? Te mother , the virgin , the whore , the crone ; they 're elbowing you in the subway , stealing your cabs , and overwhelming you with perfume in elevators . ''
ELAINE: `` But perhaps , in fairness to the faire sex , I do need to broaden my horizon and add some new goddesses to the pantheon I would like to nominate fo deity '' Fisher hands a file to Elaine .
FISHER: `` The cheerleader , the coed , and the man-eater , the last of which concerns me most today . '' Fisher leaves and we hold a USA Today sign .
MAN: `` To be fair , the man-eater is n't exactly new . In Ancient Greece , this fearsome female was known as Erinys , the devouring death goddess . In India , she is Kali , who likes to devour he oyfriend Shiva 's entrails while he yoni devour his dot dot dot , neve mind . In Indonesia , the bloody-jawed man-eater is called Ragma '' Te Man sits at the bar near to the Bartender .
BARTENDER: You noticed these are all countries without cable. `` And in Hale , Maryland where she helps run the family hardware store . She is known as Miss Maggie Carpente
MRS. PRESSMAN: Holy moly .
PEGGY: `` What is unusual about Miss Carpente is that she likes to dress her men up as grooms before she devours them . She has already disemboweled six in a row y leaving them at the altar . '' I ca n't ready anymore .
MRS. PRESSMAN: `` And her ritual feast continues as she prepares to make a sacrifice out of the seventh fiance . So all bets are on and we hope that this boomerang bride is n't honeymooning with Las Vegas odds makers ecause many predict that this girl is out of there before the race before the rice hits the ground '' Holy moly .
PEGGY: No , you tell her .
MRS. PRESSMAN: No , no . You 're her best friend .
PEGGY: No .
MRS. PRESSMAN: You know , it 's just possible that she has n't read this yet .
PEGGY: Yeah .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Maybe she has n't read the paper
MAGGIE: Here we go ! One antique hot wate handle with the `` HOT '' still on it , guaranteed to fit any American Standard cast iron tub with a four-inch cente made between 1924 and 1938 . In othe words , I think you 're out of the doghouse with Mrs. Paxton .
MR. PAXTON: Hallelujah .
MAGGIE: Alright , Mr. Paxton , I 'll put it on your account .
EARL: Maggie .
MAGGIE: You do n't need an air conditioner , Earl , you just need an attic fan There 's more in the back .
PEGGY: So Mag you 've seen this , huh ?
MAGGIE: Yes , I 've seen it . And I have to say it 's the rudest and most offensive joke anybody 's ever played on me ! To their amazement , Maggie starts smiling . MAGGIE You guys ! How long did this take you ? Maggie stays amused . MAGGIE Where 'd you get this done ? You creeps ! I should disinvite you ! And why did you say seven times ? This is four .
PEGGY: Uh , Maggie , you told us to bachelorette jokes , so we did n't
MRS. PRESSMAN: Holy moly .
MAGGIE: Um , you know , now would be a good moment to tell me this is fake . It wo n't be funny if you drag it out . Okay ? Okay , well I mean , I can find out Real newspapers smear . Phoney papers do n't .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Bag .
IKE: I 'll put in a good word for you .
ELAINE: No , no , do n't mention my name in there .
IKE: Why ? A buzz .
ELAINE: You can go in now .
ELLIE: `` Anyway , I 'm just dropping you big city folk this little note to say that I have thought of a ritual sacrifice that would satisfy my current appetite Ike Graham 's column on a platter . Yours truly , Maggie Carpenter . P.S . I have inclosed a list of the gross factual misrepresentations in you article . There are fifteen . ''
IKE: Fully . I like her . She has wit .
ELLIE: I left four messages . You do n't return my calls .
IKE: So ? I never returned your calls , even when we were married . And what 's Fisher doing here anyway ?
FISHER: Ellie asked me to come down to offe moral support .
IKE: Since when does Ellie need moral supp
ELLIE: It 's for you , Ike .
IKE: What ?
ELLIE: Journalism lesson number one . If you fabricate your facts , you get fired .
IKE: Lesson number two . Never work for you former spouse .
ELLIE: That 's not nothing to do with it . You cooked this story up and you know it .
IKE: I did n't cook up a story . I had a source .
ELLIE: Someone reliable , I 'm sure . A booze- hound in a bar ?
FISHER: In vino veritas .
IKE: Do n't knock drunk guys in bars . Drunk guys in bars are good . It means they 're not driving .
ELLIE: No , that 's what makes you unemployed .
IKE: I merely write the stuff . You 're the one that serves it up .
ELLIE: Not anymore . I have to draw the line . She sent us this list . Our lawyers say it 's actionable . Ellie hands Ike Maggie 's list .
IKE: Lawyers . I do n't know , Ellie Firing me is going to be very tough on you . It 's going to be hard to get over . There will be therapy bills for you .
ELLIE: I already made an appointment for late today .
IKE: See ? You want custody of my job ? Why not just consider my wrist slapped and call me when you feel I 've served my time ?
ELLIE: I 'm sorry , Ike . This is permanent .
MAGGIE: She canned him , she canned him
BOB: Come here , Mag , and try this on .
MAGGIE: Listen `` Dear Ms. Carpenter , I apologize to you for this unfortunate matter . Ike Graham 's column will no longer be appearing in this paper . Best of luck in you upcoming marriage ! ''
BOB: That-a-girl ! You sacked him . This is the weight of the pack you 're going to have to carry in the Himalayas . Tell me if it 's too heavy .
FISHER: Ike , I really liked the Runaway Bride piece , and since I do freelance stuff for G.Q. , I 'm in a different position now
IKE: What are you trying to say to me , Fish ? They stop walking .
FISHER: Vindication . How would you like to get some ? A chance to prove that , though your facts were n't entirely straight , your theory was correct .
IKE: The real story on Miss Carpenter .
FISHER: All the gory details . They start walking again .
IKE: The anatomy of the black widow spide of Maryland .
FISHER: It would n't be a bad way to get you ack into writing feature pieces again .
IKE: This is good . It is a good story , Fish .
FISHER: If she runs , then it 's a cover story . All true . All accurate .
IKE: Okay , you were right . I hated my column , but I can do this assignment .
FISHER: Then you 've got it . If you leave tomorrow for the hinterlands , you 'll have plenty of time before her next wedding trot .
IKE: `` Paid vindication '' That 's what I call justice .
FISHER: Justice , yes . Paid , I do n't know . They like the idea , but my hands are tied with budget restraints .
IKE: But I 'll get my normal fee , right ? He walks away .
MAGGIE: Cindy , you better 86 Sprout . He seems to be enjoying the petroleum distillates .
CINDY: That 's it . Back to obedience school .
MAGGIE: Okay have a seat gently , carefully .
PEGGY: You 're a goddess !
MAGGIE: I did n't even need to change this gasket , just put in a little hydraulic fluid .
PEGGY: Stop it . When you talk like that , I get turned on and it frightens me .
IKE: Hello . I 'm looking for Maggie Carpenter . There was a sign at the hardware store across the street
PEGGY: Are you a reporter ?
IKE: What ?
PEGGY: It 's been our experience that anyone with some sort of gewgaw on his loafers ends up being another big city reporte wanting to interview Maggie .
IKE: About her upcoming wedding and all .
PEGGY: No , about her getting that asshole from New York fired . Ike smiles down at his loafers and shrugs .
IKE: I am just such a reporter . And you are ?
PEGGY: Peggy Phleming . Not the ice skater .
IKE: And who are these lovely ladies ?
CINDY: Cindy . Maggie 's unmarried cousin .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Mrs. Pressman . No relation .
PEGGY: And you are ?
IKE: Looking for Maggie .
PEGGY: Yep . Maggie Someone to see you .
MAGGIE: Reporter ?
PEGGY: Yup !
MAGGIE: I hope you have a different angle . It 's pretty much all been covered .
IKE: Originality is my speciality .
MAGGIE: Excellent .
PEGGY: Hold on Nobody interviews Maggie in here unless they 're getting haircut .
MAGGIE: She 's the boss .
IKE: Sorry , no . I just got one .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Excuse me , sir . I have an actual fact for you .
IKE: Yes , Mrs. Pressman .
MRS. PRESSMAN: It 's her fourth time to the altar , you know . Not seven like they said .
IKE: I know . Tell me something . Do you think she 's going to make it all the way this time ?
MAGGIE: She swallowed her gun . Mrs. Pressman continues her story to Ike .
MRS. PRESSMAN: I 'm not sure . Mr. Schullian runs the newsstand , he 's our local bookie , you know , he 's giving eight to one odds she wo n't . He says she 's so famous now , maybe Vegas will give odds on her . I 'm going to wait to hear what the pros say .
IKE: Good fact . Well , you let me know .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Oh , I will .
MAGGIE: Well , instead of a haircut , how about a wash ? You know , get all that city grit out of it .
IKE: You 'll answer my questions ? Maggie nods affirmatively . IKE Fine . You wash , I 'll ask the questions .
PEGGY: Great .
MAGGIE: Have a seat . Peggy , why do n't you give him the special treatment that strengthens the follicles .
IKE: Getting nervous ?
MAGGIE: Nervous ? Not at all ! No . I 've neve een more certain in my life . Except I am having all kinds of weird dreams . Ike pulls the cloth down from over his face .
IKE: Weird dreams ? You 're going to tell me about them ?
MAGGIE: Yes .
PEGGY: Let 's just put this back here for the aromatherapy .
MAGGIE: In another one
PEGGY: Hey , Pete , I 'll be right with you .
MAGGIE: I 'm inside the church . Everyone I know is there , only they 're not really them . They 're like Frankenstein monsters , but without the bolts coming out of thei necks . It 's all very `` Night of the Living Dead '' . And here 's the creepiest part I look down at my dress and it 's red . I mean , I have no idea what it means . Red 's not my color !
IKE: I think you 'd look good in red .
PEGGY: No , she 's talking about your hair .
MAGGIE: You 're all ready for football season , Mr. Graham .
IKE: Yes , I think I nailed the personality profile of the women of Hale .
PETE: Doc 's Pharmacy . Third and Elm . Tell him Pete sent you . Want my hat ?
IKE: No thanks . Ike smiles at Maggie and exits .
MAGGIE: He seems crabby .
IKE: Thank you . He walks the other way .
MAGGIE: If you came down here in the pursuit of happiness , you might as well go back . Because you ca n't make me feel bad . She stops walking and turns to Ike .
IKE: I 'm not here to make you feel bad . I 'm here for vindication . In my heart
MAGGIE: You have one ? Ike walks back to Maggie .
IKE: I feel I 'm right about you . You got me fired , lady . You destroyed my eputation and you screwed up my hair . You chew men up , spit them out and loved it . And I 'm down here to satisfy myself on that point . PASSERSBY stare at Ike 's hair and giggle .
MAGGIE: Did something happen to make you care about reality ?
IKE: Yes . Conviction . Conviction that I 'm onto the truth . You 're going to do the same thing to `` poor bastard number four '' that you did to the last three . You 're going to run again . And I 'm not leaving until you do .
MAGGIE: You 're going to be very disappointed .
IKE: We 'll see .
MAGGIE: I 'd love to stay and chat , but I 've got to get back to work . I still have my job .
IKE: Hey , kid , I 'll give you ten bucks fo your hat .
WALTER: You know , when I only see one dog , I know I 've had too much to drink .
MAGGIE: You 'll never guess who came crawling into town with his tail between his legs . IKE Who ?
WALTER: In other words he 's only human . An he brought us a bottle of wine . Raises the bottle to Maggie .
IKE: They made me put my hat back on .
WALTER: Oh , yeah . Scared the hell out of Skipper .
MAGGIE: You 've got to be kidding me . Maggie stares at them both .
BOB: No , no , you should have seen Skipper . It was n't that funny .
MAGGIE: So , the forces of good and evil have already met .
BOB: I 'll help you take into the kitchen .
GRANDMA JULIA: Check on the crabs , Bob .
IKE: Gee , I hope they do n't have a fight out there . You do n't think they 'll call it off ?
WALTER: Well , wedding cake freezes . This we know .
IKE: You know , your daughter seems Ike notices that he 's been sewn to the veil .
GRANDMA JULIA: Sorry .
IKE: That 's okay , Grandma .
WALTER: Like her mother .
IKE: Ah , beautiful . I just ca n't see her leaving multiple grooms in the dust like that .
GRANDMA JULIA: Oh , yes , you can . She 's has 'em all on tape .
IKE: She has a tape ?
WALTER: Yeah . Lee at the hotel videos wedding . I mean Maggie did n't know she was going to make the hundred-yard dash .
IKE: Dad 's fishing trip , Grandma 's knee operation , Grandma 's birthday
WALTER: Got ta tell you this about my daughter . My daughter makes real good time , even in a long dress and heels . Maggie may not be Hale 's longest running joke , but she certainly is the fastest . Walter cracks up .
GRANDMA JULIA: Ha ha .
MAGGIE: This is good , Dad , do n't leave anything out .
WALTER: So I 've come to see it as a bonus , eally , that we 've been able to plan , and pay for , so many weddings .
MAGGIE: Not this one . This one 's on me . Walter reacts .
IKE: That 's fair .
MAGGIE: Despite what you think , I do n't do it on purpose . And I have no intention of doing it again .
BOB: That 's right , Maggie . Just keep you eye on the ball .
IKE: Ahh .
BOB: I 'm the town 's unofficial fitness trainer . Big advocate of the mind and ody combining for success . You could say or you can quote me , I 'm a glass half full king of guy .
MAGGIE: Bob 's the head of the P.E . department at the high school . And he coaches the football team . And he 's climbed Everest .
IKE: Everest . Is that right ?
MAGGIE: Twice
IKE: Really ?
MAGGIE: Without oxygen
BOB: My girl likes to brag about me .
IKE: How romantic .
MAGGIE: We think so .
IKE: Nothing like sharing your nuptial bed with two Sherpas and a yak .
IKE: Kamikaze !
MRS. TROUT: This one 's very popular , but oh , you 've used this one before Brian . But I like the white dinner jacket .
MAGGIE: No , he 's no good . Too blond .
MRS. TROUT: We 'll go with total traditional .
MAGGIE: Too dark .
IKE: But he 's got the Bobster 's eyes . Maggie cringes at the sound of Ike 's voice . IKE No the Bobster 's eyes are closer set . She ignores him and continues her search . IKE Could I have two coffees , please ? And what is that wonderful smell ? I 'll have two of those delicious looking cinnamon rolls .
MRS. TROUT: Sure . Here , Maggie . I think this makes the est you .
IKE: Let 's see Excuse me , is n't that cute ? Ahh
MRS. TROUT: You must be that Mr. Graham fellow . Ike turns and goes to her .
IKE: Yes , I am . And who are you ?
MRS. TROUT: Betty Trout . Five dollars .
IKE: Oh , Betty . I take it you 're going to e making the wedding cake and they say you 're throwing
MRS. TROUT: The luau for Maggie .
MAGGIE: Grandma made me the cutest outfit . I ca n't wait to show it to you .
IKE: A pre-wedding luau ?
MRS. TROUT: Yes . My husband and I love luaus . It 'll be fun .
IKE: Fun ? Fun is n't the word .
MRS. TROUT: If you 're still in town , you should stop by .
MAGGIE: No , I 'm sure he does n't .
IKE: Actually , I would love to come . Thank you . Thank you so much .
MAGGIE: Is that what you 're going to do now ? Follow me around everywhere I go ?
IKE: No .
MRS. TROUT: Your two cinnamon rolls .
IKE: Bye , Betty . Thanks . He leaves .
MAGGIE: He 's not a nice person .
DENNIS: Maggie , do n't marry Coach ! Marry me . I love you .
MAGGIE: You 're jail bait , Dennis . Go away . Run your laps . Go . Go .
BOB: Drive ! Drive ! From your hips , get low , get low , get low . Next !
MAGGIE: What is he up to now ?
BOB: Ike just came by to check out the team .
IKE: And talk about you .
MAGGIE: Bob are you making friends with this man ?
BOB: I 'm just bragging about how great you are . I 'm the luckiest man alive .
IKE: Well I 've got to get moving lot of work to do today ! I 'll see you two love-birds later . Ike leaves . Bob calls after him .
BOB: See you at the wedding .
IKE: You bet ya , Coach .
MAGGIE: At the wedding ? You invite him ? Bob , do n't you realize he 's writing anothe article about me ?
BOB: Sure I do . But the bet defense is a good offense , right ? You 're not going to let your opponent throw you off your game .
MAGGIE: You do n't understand this guy .
BOB: Let him come to the wedding . You 're not running , right ? Say it . `` I 'm not ''
MAGGIE: I 'm not running .
BOB: So if you 're not running and Ike Graham is there to see it , then any article he writes has got to have a happy ending , ight ? All we 're doing is turning lemon into lemonade .
MAGGIE: I 've got news for you . No amount of sugar and water is going to turn like Graham into something you want to take on a picnic . Bob gives Maggie a big hug .
BOB: Where 's that homemade sunshine ?
MAGGIE: Bless me , Father , for I have sinned . My last confession was ahh She tries to recall . MAGGIE Anyway , I have sort of a technical question here . I 've been having bad thoughts . I mean , really bad thoughts
PRIEST: Of an impure nature ?
MAGGIE: No like I 'm having a problem with that whole turn-the-other-cheek concept . I want revenge . I want to destroy this guy 's life , career , everything . On the sin scale , how big is that ? I mean , can I `` Hail Mary '' my way out of it ?
PRIEST: Child , any sin in one 's heart is
MAGGIE: The name 's Maggie . It was n't this side of ten years ago that you had you tongue down my throat . So do n't call me `` child '' , Brian . It annoys me .
BRIAN: You 're not even Catholic , Maggie you eally should n't come to confession .
MAGGIE: I 'm sorry . I 'm just so stressed out about that slime-ball reporter being in town . I jus had to come warn you he might show up here and start asking you all kinds of ridiculous questions .
BRIAN: Actually , he only asked me one idiculous question . The rest were n't so bad .
MAGGIE: What ? You talked to him ! Did you tell him we dated before you were a priest ?
BRIAN: Yes , yes , I 'm sure I only did you good , Maggie .
MAGGIE: What did he ask ? A woman , MRS. MURPHY , rushes in .
MRS. MURPHY: Father , am I too late ?
BRIAN: No , no .
MRS. MURPHY: It wo n't take long . Jus two venials .
BRIAN: Only respectful things . What did we have in common back then What kind of music did you like Did you ruin my life when you left me standing at the altar
MAGGIE: And what did you say ?
BRIAN: How could I be angry at you when clearly what has happened to me is as God intended ?
MAGGIE: Good one ! Thanks .
BRIAN: It happens to be how I feel . Brian sits next to Maggie .
MAGGIE: God Of course . I 'm sorry I mean , I 'm Brian I 've got to go . The man 's a lunatic , but I know exactly where he 's going next .
BRIAN: God bless you , Maggie . She turns to rush out , then stops herself .
MAGGIE: Oh , wait , my purse .
BRIAN: He wanted to know how you used to like your eggs .
MAGGIE: Weird . Like after all those years you would remem
BRIAN: Scrambled , with salt , pepper and dill . Same as me .
MAGGIE: I 'm really sorry that I hurt you , Brian .
BRIAN: I 'm happy here , where I 'm supposed to e. But if you ever become a Catholic , may I ask you a favor , Maggie ?
MAGGIE: Of course .
BRIAN: Could your confess to Father Patrick from now on ?
MAGGIE: Of course .
GILL: Hey I found it !
MAGGIE: Found what ?
GILL: Mags ! Hey , look The tape from the Radio City Music Hall concert Remember that night I as trying to get Jerry to let me sit in on `` Ripple '' ?
MAGGIE: Listen , Gill There 's this reporte who 's ben making my life a living hell If he comes by here , do n't talk to him . And whatever yo do . Do n't show him that picture of me at the concert in San Francisco
GILL: We went to San Francisco twice . Remember one time we had a flat tire Which picture ?
IKE: Imagine ! Maggie Carpenter topless in a public arena . And I see there was a chill in the air .
MAGGIE: Give me that !
IKE: But the most interesting thing here is that I do n't see the rose tattoo that I 've heard about on your back . Gill takes off his guitar and sets it down .
GILL: Ike bet me fifty bucks you do n't still have it , Mags . I said `` You 're on , man ! Maggie loved that thing ! '' And I could eally use fifty bucks . Maggie is conspicuously silent . GILL Mags ?
MAGGIE: I 'm not gon na show you guys anything . I am a soon-to-be-married woman . Now give me that photograph . Maggie seethes .
IKE: Sure , I would love to give this to you . Just give us one quick gander at that ose , and , I 'll gladly hand it over .
MAGGIE: Fine . Here .
IKE: Completely .
GILL: Maggie ? You got it removed ?
IKE: Gill , I 'll go ya double or nothing if was a stick-on .
GILL: Maggie ?
MAGGIE: I 'm really , really afraid of needles It does n't make me a bad person .
GILL: Look .
IKE: Look , look , man . I think the man is heartbroken .
MAGGIE: He is not !
GILL: I think I am . Gill grabs his guitar and sits . GILL Hey , Ike , what would Jerry do ?
IKE: Jerry . He 'd play . He 'd play Jerry would play his heart out .
MAGGIE: Okay , he 's on base . Can we talk about my life now ? Ike 's going to turn that tattoo stuff into a big deal that I was never serious about Gill , lah blah . He 's totally out to get me .
PEGGY: For what reason ? Some personal satisfaction ?
MAGGIE: That 's what he says , but if he thinks that I do n't realize he 's writing another article , then he 's an idiot .
PEGGY: It 's probably because you got him fired .
MAGGIE: Ya think ?
PEGGY: Not that he does n't deserve to get fired Look ! Cory 's going fo second ! Sneaky !
MAGGIE: There he is . Snoop Doggy-Dogg .
PEGGY: Where ?
MAGGIE: Over there . Ten o'clock . He 's talking to our little Dennis . Dennis will turn into one of those `` sources say '' things .
PEGGY: He looks better with that stuff out of his hair . He 's an attractive man .
MAGGIE: I 'd say you 've been in the sun too long . You handle him , okay ? I could use five minutes off from that creep .
PEGGY: Okay , that 's fine . I can do that . Ike comes up to Peggy .
IKE: Hello , Peggy Phleming , `` not the ice-skater '' . Ike indicates the seat next to Peggy .
PEGGY: That 's Maggie 's seat Ike sits down comfortably .
IKE: And this is Maggie 's beer .
PEGGY: Have you listened to his morning show , `` Wake up with ballplayer '' ?
IKE: Not yet . I had a phlemless morning . I hear he 's a pretty good ballplayer .
PEGGY: This game is pretty important to him . He made all-stars in high school , you know .
IKE: That must have made you proud . Peggy takes a small sip off her soda .
PEGGY: He was going with Maggie back then . He was never one of her I mean , they were never going to get They just dated for a while .
IKE: It 's nice that they 're still friends .
PEGGY: Oh , sure . That was a long time ago . See , she 's not a man-hater at all . She 's very supportive of men
MAGGIE: You 've been here for three minutes . What did you do to her ?
IKE: You can turn that finger around .
MAGGIE: You misinterpret everything . We 've all een friends our whole lives . But that 's the types of relationship you would n't understand .
IKE: Obviously , I 'm not the only one who does n't understand it . The USS Maggie leaves quite a wake Excuse me .
MAGGIE: See , I cheer good . What is he , a chee critic ?
LEE: Okay . Second floor .
MAGGIE: Thanks .
LEE: Do n't take anything big .
MAGGIE: `` How does she get all these guys to propose ? She 's not that beautiful . '' Bite me , paper boy .
IKE: All right , I know you 're in there You steal my research You 're messing with the first amendment now . Open up . Open up . You got no place to go .
MAGGIE: You do that . And remind him he 's inging the wine to the luau . Thanks .
PEGGY: Good morning to you , too . You look good .
MAGGIE: Thank you . Do you think I flirt with Cory ?
PEGGY: Yes . Maggie looks miserable .
MAGGIE: I do n't mean it .
PEGGY: I know . I think sometimes you just sort of spaz-out with random excess flirtation energy and it just lands on anything male that moves .
MAGGIE: On anything male that moves ? As opposed to anything male that does n't move ?
PEGGY: Like certain kinds of coral . Peggy sits in the salon chair next to Maggie .
MAGGIE: I 'm going to kill myself .
PEGGY: Why ?
MAGGIE: Because you think I 'm all like `` Hey man , check me out '' .
PEGGY: No , I do n't think you 're like , `` I 'm charming and mysterious in a way that even I do n't understand and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you '' . Very hard to compete with . Especially to us married women who have lost our mystery .
MAGGIE: But you have n't lost your mystery ! You 're very mysterious !
PEGGY: No . I 'm weird . Weird and mysterious are two different things .
MAGGIE: But I 'm weird .
PEGGY: No . You 're quirky . Quirky and weird are two different things .
MAGGIE: Peggy , there 's distinct possibility that I might be profoundly and irreversibly screwed up . Despite that , I love you and I can promise that I will no longer flirt with Cory , and I eg your forgiveness . Maggie looks ready to cry .
PEGGY: I 'm not worried about you and Cory o Cory and me or even that you 're irreversibly screwed up . But , Maggie , you 've been like this since we were kids . And I think now that you are aware of it and that it hurts people 's feelings , maybe it 's time to move on with your life and commit to someone of your own , like Bob , if he 's the one .
MAGGIE: I think you 're right . Is there anything I can do to make it up to you ?
PEGGY: Something that brings warmth to my heart . Duckbill platypus .
MAGGIE: It 's only funny at Camp Birchwood at three in the morning at a tick hunt . It 's not anymore .
PEGGY: You 're right . It 's not funny now . Maybe we both grew up .
MAGGIE: Thanks . Will you fix my hair ?
IKE: I take it the desk clerk is one of you many admirers .
MAGGIE: How do I do it ? I 'm not that beautiful . Ike notices Maggie is holding two coffees .
IKE: Coffee . Now . Maggie hands it to him .
MAGGIE: You 're welcome . Your notes made interesting bedtime reading if you like trashy fiction . Your observations are distorted , ungrounded an incomplete . You must be very proud .
IKE: I 'm not a boastful man . What 's you point ? Ike puts a shirt on as Maggie speaks .
MAGGIE: My point is that one again , you 're getting it all wrong . That wo n't improve your reputation any , and it 's not very flattering to me either . So , I 'm going to give you a chance to write the truth .
IKE: Really . Maggie turns away from him as he dresses .
MAGGIE: I 've decided to cooperate and let you interview me . For a thousand bucks .
IKE: My magazine does n't pay because fo stories . It 's not what you call ethical .
MAGGIE: Oh , but making up the facts as you go along is ethical ? Actually , I meant you . You probably got severance o expenses or both . I 'll take your check . No credit cards .
IKE: You 've seen the post-its . I 've already got more juicy material than I need . Why should I pay you dollar one ?
MAGGIE: Because I think you 're writing on spec and with a first person interview , you might actually sell that thing . Ike knows she 's right .
IKE: Too much .
MAGGIE: Seven-fifty .
IKE: Five hundred .
MAGGIE: Six-fifty .
IKE: Done .
MAGGIE: Pardon the mess . I have n't cleaned since the fifth grade .
IKE: Cindy the manicurist .
MAGGIE: No , the other one .
IKE: This is wonderful . You reconfigure all these industrial parts and you do something amazing with it .
MAGGIE: I think so .
IKE: I like it . This whole thing is pretty incredible . I think you could probably sell this lamp idea in New York .
MAGGIE: Maybe someday .
IKE: You afraid to try ?
MAGGIE: No , I 'm not afraid . Just Maybe someday .
IKE: Well , I 'm impressed . Absolutely incredible . I did n't expect pink and lacy , but this is n't exactly a woman 's room .
MAGGIE: What an incredible chauvinistic observation .
IKE: Always a mood killer .
MAGGIE: Still sweet .
IKE: It 's a little `` Silence of the Lambs '' for me . I ca n't believe you waited fo the wedding to run .
MAGGIE: He 's an entomologist ! I thought it was very unique .
IKE: Wait . Do n't tell me . The scoreboard lit up with `` Mary me , Maggie . ''
MAGGIE: It was one of the most wonderful moments of my life . Cal Ripken even applauded .
IKE: Highly suspect .
MAGGIE: What do you mean ? It was incredibly omantic !
IKE: Maybe it 's just me , but if you got to dress it up , it does n't ring true . Ike moves back to the couch . IKE I think the most anybody can honestly say is , `` Look '' `` I guarantee that we 'll have tough times . I guarantee that at some point one or both of us will want to get out of this thing . But I also guarantee that if I do n't ask you to be mine , I 'll regret it for the rest of my life . Because I know in my heart you 're the only one for me ''
MAGGIE: I like it .
IKE: I 'm a work in progress .
MAGGIE: So ? Is that what you said to her ?
IKE: No . I think I said something eloquent like , `` So , uh maybe we should , ya know . What do you think ? ''
MAGGIE: Now that 's romantic . A proposal like that and you did n't find eternal bliss ? What went wrong ? Ike takes a swallow of cappuccino .
IKE: I do n't know .
MAGGIE: You do n't know .
IKE: No .
MAGGIE: Maybe you should ask her some time . Ever thought of that ? Ike is restless . He stands up .
IKE: Call me crazy , but I believe that check I gave you entitles me to ask the questions for a while .
MAGGIE: Fair enough . Actually
IKE: Ow !
MAGGIE: Even with everything that 's happened I 've still never been married and I still deserve a beautiful dress .
IKE: Agreed .
POLLY: She 'll be the prettiest little flowe girl in your daughter 's wedding .
MAGGIE: Mr. Whittenmeyer . Hi , Polly !
POLLY: Hi , Maggie . You 'll have to excuse her , Maggie . Some of the children are afraid of you since you dragged that little boy up the aisle .
MAGGIE: I did n't drag . He tripped on his shoelaces .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: You 've come for your dress . Good ! I 'll get it from the back . Maggie leads her to the front window .
MAGGIE: Actually , I would like to get this dress .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: Polly , take Leslie into change . But the one you have on hold is lovely .
MAGGIE: Yes . But I 've changed my mind .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: It 's one thousand dollars . Maggie is keenly aware of Ike listening in .
MAGGIE: I have one thousand dollars .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: The other one is only three hundred dollars .
MAGGIE: Is this dress for sale ?
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: It just seems like an awful lot of money to spend on one of your dresses , Maggie You only wear them for about ten minutes .
MAGGIE: Yeah , that 's a good point . The other dress is nice . Ike calls out to Mrs. Whittenmeyer .
IKE: Mrs. Whittenmeyer . May I talk to you for a second ? She walks over to him . IKE I do n't know much about this kind of thing . I 'm from out of town . You 're a salesperson , right ? You 're here to sell wedding dresses .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: Yes . I 've been here for thirty years .
IKE: Perfect . Because Miss Carpenter is here to buy one . But not just any one . She wants that one .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: It 's a thousand dollars !
POLLY: It 's a thousand dollars .
MRS. WHITTENMEYER: Shhhh ! The man has ink ! Maggie looks gratefully at Ike .
IKE: Tough to spend money in this town .
MAGGIE: Fine . The newspaper 's upside down . That 's better than fine .
IKE: Bob will be very happy .
MAGGIE: Bob ! I almost forgot ! I have to meet Bob !
BOB: Mrs. Pressman , I think we 're ready to order .
MRS. PRESSMAN: We 're out the special because somebody did n't order enough sausage .
BOB: Let me have the garden omelette . Egg whites only .
MAGGIE: I 'll have the same .
IKE: Of course .
MAGGIE: What was that ? I ca n't order my eggs without sarcasm ?
BOB: Neutral corners you two . You 're on the same team now . Any more fighting and it 's fifteen minutes in the penalty box . Maggie 's the nicest person you 'll eve meet . But she 's always focusing out there . She 's got to start focusing more in here . That 's why she 's had some whateve you want to call it problems in the past . That 's what we 're working on focus . Right , Maggie ? Focus on Maggie . Focus on Bob .
MAGGIE: Right .
BOB: I lead Maggie through a visualization exercise . All the sports shrinks use this head stuff . Visualize the end zone , if you catch my drift .
IKE: Tell me . When you get to the altar , will you spike the bouquet ?
MAGGIE: You know , there 's no Before Maggie can finish , Ike intercepts her .
IKE: Well , I 'm off . A reporter 's work is never done . Mrs. Pressman , thank you .
MRS. PRESSMAN: Tootaloo .
MAGGIE: Ike Hi , Grandma .
IKE: Gram here was going to give me the skinny on why you run from marital liss .
GRANDMA JULIA: Right , cover your ears , Netta . It 's not that she 's afraid of the wedding , she 's afraid of the wedding night . Innocent girls are terrified of `` the one-eyed snake '' . Why , when I was a virgin bride , I took a knitting needle with me into the bed Ike winces .
MAGGIE: Actually , Grandma , I charmed the one- eyed snake awhile ago .
GRANDMA JULIA: Oh , yeah , I forgot . I 'll tell you one thing , your grandpa did n't forget that wedding night . You can take your hands off your ears , Netta . Your tea 's getting cold .
MAGGIE: Can you excuse us a minute ? May I have a word with you , please ? Maggie moves toward door .
IKE: Bye , Netta Bye , Grandam . He steps over to Maggie in the doorway .
MAGGIE: I found this and did n't know if it was something interesting .
IKE: Oh , my God It 's Miles Davis . This is `` King of Blue '' ! This is the original recording . Hard to find in good condition . Where did you find this ?
MAGGIE: It was in the attic . It was jus sitting there gathering dust .
IKE: It 's valuable . Hang onto it .
MAGGIE: No . You take it .
IKE: Hmmm Figuring out what kind of music I like and then finding me a rare album . You 're not trying to soften me up , are you ?
MAGGIE: No I 'm cleaning an attic . I would n't attempt the impossible .
WALTER: I have n't had any fun since you got your driver 's license
MAGGIE: I 'm not exactly having fun , either Steady .
WALTER: Good boy , Port Hole .
MAGGIE: His name is Skipper , Dad Steady .
WALTER: I changed it . See you later , Mr. Travis . That guy has a problem Maggie , you can run everyone 's life but your own .
MAGGIE: Ike Please do n't write anything about this
IKE: No . Forget about it . Do n't even think about it .
MAGGIE: Watch your leg , Dad . I 'm so tired of this .
IKE: Why do n't you let him sleep it off in the trunk . I 'll take you for a ride . Then we 'll come back for him . Keep an eye on him .
DRUNK MAN: I 'm too loaded .
IKE: I was talking to the dog . All right ?
MAGGIE: Okay I 'll just grab my jacket .
IKE: My dad managed a business and two mistresses . He wanted me to be a novelist . More ? Maggie nods , IKE My mother wanted me to become a musician . 0 for two . But at least I 'm a journalist and we all know journalism is literature in a hurry .
MAGGIE: Your filter 's clogged . This takes unleaded .
IKE: Can you fix it ?
MAGGIE: First I have to find some tools . I need a half and a nine-six-tenth .
IKE: Of what ?
MAGGIE: Wrenches . My dad 's gon na love that one . Maggie slams the food closed .
IKE: Kind of isolated .
MAGGIE: Yeah . It 's kind of nice .
IKE: There 's one thing we New Yorkers know how to do is hail a cab . If there 's no cab , we walk .
MAGGIE: I can get some tools over there . and save the battery There 's one thing we country girls know how to do is cut across a field . It 's quicker .
IKE: Snakes ? Are you serious ? I do n't like snakes . I 've never even seen a snake .
MAGGIE: Do you think there 's only one right person for everybody ? Ike chooses his words carefully .
IKE: No . But I think attraction is too often mistaken for rightness . Attraction is very misleading . And if it 's mutual , it 's well , terribly distracting .
MAGGIE: Yes it is . And it does n't mean anything .
IKE: Yeah , we need a half and nine- sixteenths .
LIONEL: Gon na bust out of another wedding ?
IKE: You 're sure well known around here .
FISHER: Yes , well , my theory was that she may e running because she gets attention Negative attention is attention . Like when women whack you on the street ecause of your column , that 's negative attention .
IKE: Look I 'll be in there later today . I 'll come by and tell you all about it .
GEORGE: Splendid dissection of Maggie Carpenter , very professional job . Ike sits and leans over to George .
IKE: You could have told me you were fiance number three .
GEORGE: And end up in the papers ? I 've been humiliated enough already to last a lifetime , thank you . I 'm sorry she got you canned .
IKE: Thanks .
GEORGE: She 's a cacophony of contradictions .
IKE: Well , I 'm writing another article on the cacophony .
GEORGE: Ah , ca n't stay away from her , can you ? Like a moth to a flame .
IKE: Guess you 'd know about that . You 're an entomologist , right ? How 's business ?
GEORGE: Not bad . I was traveling around studying the reproductive and migratory patterns of locusts when Maggie met me .
IKE: Neuter a locust , feed the world .
GORGE: Not the world . Just Africa and China .
GEORGE: Same as you said . What did you call her ? A `` man-eater '' , `` a devouring death goddess . ''
IKE: I do n't think that 's why she ran .
GEORGE: Why do YOU think she ran ? Ike sips his drink before answering .
IKE: I do n't know . I 'm working on it . I was on the wrong track .
GEORGE: And you defending her ?
IKE: No . I call it like I see it . I 'm a journalist . I 'm a truth teller .
GEORGE: Unbelievable , she got to you .
IKE: Oh , please !
GORGE: Join the club . Here , you need this more than me . George heads out .
IKE: I 'm writing an article , I 'm getting paid to do this , it 's going to be a cover story , it 's going to be published The facts will be read someday .
GEORGE: Poached , just like me . George exits .
FISHER: Overpriced nice apartment and Chinese takeout . That 's New York living .
ELLIE: Just call me when you have it . Ike , how is the story coming ? Is she a man-eater ?
FISHER: Or a vegetarian ?
ELLIE: Or does she pick `` NGB 'S '' `` Nice Guys , But '' Nice guys , but I 'm cheap . Nice guys , but he lives with his mom Nice guys , but he just out of prison .
IKE: No They 're interesting guys . Each one of these guys has something going for him . I mean , one 's been up Everest . Another 's become a priest . One 's a pretty good guitar player . And this guy today tried to end world hunger , if you can believe that
FISHER: Whoa , Ike . Getting a complex , buddy ?
ELLIE: Fisher , let him talk .
IKE: But one of those guys not one of them knew her at all . Each one was convinced that she was perfect for them , ut they did n't see her . And she neve showed up so they could n't see her . It 's a very symbolic thing happening . She becomes what she thinks they wanted to be .
FISHER: Ike is turning sensitive and I ca n't ear to watch . I 'm going to make a fresh pot of tea .
ELLIE: Yeah Oh , Jay Okay Bye . Fisher , do n't forget the fortune cookies .
IKE: Is that what I did to you ? Is that what happened ? Did I just not see you ?
ELLIE: No . No , you did n't . He hugs her .
IKE: Well I 'm sorry , I 'm really sorry , Ellie .
ELLIE: I 'm sorry , too . Wow . That only took us between years to say . Ellie blinks back sentimental tears .
LOU TROUT: Welcome to our annual country luau . As you know , Betty and I got married on the rim of the crater , Diamond Head .
MRS. TROUT: This year , we 're dedicating our first dance to the soon-to-be newlyweds , the King and Queen of Hawaii , Maggie and Bob .
PEGGY: Lighten up , wahine .
MAGGIE: Lighten up , what ?
PEGGY: This party is for you and Bob . Get your mind off the reporter .
MAGGIE: I have n't seen him in twenty-four hours . It just gives me the creeps a little bit . I 'd feel better if I knew where he was .
PEGGY: Would it ?
MAGGIE: I 'm going to go dance with Bob . Because he 's the man . I like those grapes .
LOU TROUT: Hey , Mr. Graham , welcome to our luau . What can I get you ?
IKE: You got something without a toy in it ?
MAGGIE: Where did you disappear to ?
IKE: Missed me bad , huh ?
MRS. TROUT: Attention . Listen to Walter . Listen close , he slurs . Shut up , wahines !
WALTER: In the tradition that has grown through the years , it is now Toast Time ! First up , our host , `` A Honey of a Beekeeper '' , Lou Trout.. Lou Trout stands with his glass raised .
LOUT TROUT: May the groom 's heart be filled with hopes and the bride 's feet be filled with lead !
MRS. TROUT: May the pitter-patter of little feet not be Maggie 's .
MRS. PRESSMAN: May the gifts be returned !
TED: May the back of the dress be as pretty as the front !
WALTER: You know the old saying , `` You 're not losing a daughter '' Well , I 'd like to ! Walter gets a bit laugh . He goes again . WALTER Maggie may not be Hale 's longest unning joke
IKE: I do n't know , give me a minute . Are you all right with this ?
MAGGIE: Excuse me ?
IKE: Are you all right with this ? You think this is funny ?
MAGGIE: Yes .
IKE: I do n't and I do n't think you should
BOB: It 's a joke . They 're kidding .
IKE: You want me to make a toast ? Okay I 'll give you a toast . To Maggie 's family and friends . May you find yourselves the bull 's eye of an easy target . May you be publicly flogged for all of your bad choices and may your noses to rubbed in all of you mistakes
MRS. TROUT: That was funny . But enough toasts , let 's hula . Let 's start the music up .
CORY: Hey , Bob . I got twenty dollars bet on
BOB: Not now . Bob rushes after Maggie .
PEGGY: Maggie . Maggie . Here . She may need this . It 's not eally Hawaii . Ike exits . Then , Bob comes over .
BOB: Where 'd Maggie go ?
PEGGY: Oh , she just went to get me something from the car .
IKE: I 'm the only goddamn person in there pulling for you .
MAGGIE: You humiliated me !
IKE: No , Maggie , I defended you . Humiliating you is what everyone else is doing . It 's the theme of this party .
MAGGIE: I had it under control . Now they feel sorry for me .
IKE: Well , they should . Because they 're about to watch you hang yourself again . Maggie has no response . IKE Tell me something , do you really care about Mount Everest ?
MAGGIE: It 's fun ! It 's high .
IKE: Or the sexual habits of locusts ?
MAGGIE: That was very interesting research George was doing !
IKE: What kind of Dead Head gets a temporary tattoo ?
MAGGIE: I already explained about that .
IKE: And where you ever really going to run the leper colony in Molokai ?
MAGGIE: Brian told you that ?
IKE: Or maybe you just wanted to wear the headdress .
MAGGIE: Every one of those times I was being supportive . Something you wo n't understand .
IKE: Supportive ? You were n't being supportive . You were being scared . Just like now . You are the most lost woman I have ever laid eyes on .
MAGGIE: Lost !
IKE: That 's right . You 're so lost you do n't even know how you like your eggs .
MAGGIE: What ! ?
IKE: With the priest , you liked them scrambled . With the Dead Head , fried . With the bug guy , poached . Now it 's egg whites only , thank you very much .
MAGGIE: That 's called changing your mind .
IKE: No , that 's called not having a mind of your own . What are you doing , Maggie ? You really want to let that man drag you up Annapuma on your honeymoon ? You do n't want to climb Annapuma .
MAGGIE: Yes I do !
IKE: No you do n't . You want a man who will lead you down the beach with his head over your eyes just so you can discove the feel of the sand under your feet . You want a guy who will take you into a cave with a thousand candles just to ead you a poem . You want a man to wake you up at dawn because he 's urning to talk to you and he ca n't wait another minute to find out what you 'll say . Am I right ? He 's laid her flat . Maggie ca n't speak . IKE Am I right ? She fights back angry tears .
MAGGIE: Stop . Stop it ! I 'm getting married on Sunday , and you 're just trying to make me run ! Why ? Because you 're a cynical , exploitative , mean-hearted creep who would n't know real love if it bit him in the armpit ! And all you do is tea other people down and-and-and laugh at them , and criticize what they do , ecause you 're too afraid to do anything yourself ! I read your column . You never wrote one about you . I 'm not the only one who 's lost and you know it ! Am I right ? Well ? Am I right ? ANGLE ON Bob comes outside .
BOB: Mag . Help me out here . Green Bay . Right guard .
MAGGIE: Yes .
BOB: Let me take you back inside , okay ? She lets him lead her away .
MAGGIE: Jerry Kramer .
CINDY: Tell me , why does Maggie need anothe wedding rehearsal and two days before the wedding ? She 's already done this .
PEGGY: Bob is making her visualize the ceremony .
BOB: Okay , we 're ready . Want me to have Ike leave now ?
MAGGIE: No . No Actually , let 's make Ike the pastor .
IKE: I 'd rather not .
MAGGIE: Come on , it 'll give you a great view . It 's perfect . Hey .
BOB: Team effort , Pastor Ike Cindy , ready ? Cindy , come on . Cindy leaves to join the girls in the foyer .
PEGGY: He 's going to be the pastor ?
MAGGIE: Yep . I want him to be front and cente and to watch everything .
PEGGY: What happened at the luau ?
MAGGIE: I do n't even want to talk about the luau . What 's this ?
PEGGY: It 's for the bell . Cindy joins them .
CINDY: Bob 's in a hurry .
PEGGY: Do n't be nervous , Maggie . Let us visualize . Remember what Bob said ? `` Be the ball . ''
CINDY: `` Sink the putt . ''
PEGGY: `` Make the shot . ''
CINDY: `` Nothing but net . ''
PEGGY: `` Never say die . '' Maggie puts her hands up .
MAGGIE: Go !
BOB: Honey , are you okay ?
IKE: At this pace , it could be an evening wedding .
BOB: Hold it ! Hold it ! I think we 're taking this too fast . He begins to pace . BOB We need to limber you up a little . You 're tensing . You stand here and be me so she knows how far she 'll have to go . I 'm going to walk with you . Bob goes to Maggie and walks behind her . BOB Visualize ! Visualize ! It 's game time .
MAGGIE: Yes , I 'm spiraling through the air .
BOB: Okay , I 'm the pastor . Dearly beloved , lah , blah , blah . So on and so forth . Ra ta ta ta . Yabada dabada . I now pronounce you man and wife . Kiss the ide , badum dum . We have the crescendo that leads to us ight back down the aisle and out the
IKE: I 'm sorry , Bob . She kissed me back .
MAGGIE: I kissed him back .
BOB: Yeah , I caught that . Want to tell me how long this has been going on ? Maggie looks at Ike , wondrous , confused .
MAGGIE: About a minute ?
IKE: A little longer for me .
MAGGIE: Really ?
BOB: What do you expect me to say to this ?
IKE: How about `` I hope you 'll be very happy together '' ?
BOB: I hope you 'll be very happy together .
MAGGIE: Take care of him . Maggie leaves .
PEGGY: Well , Maggie in the words of Mrs. Pressman `` Holy moly '' . Call me later .
MAGGIE: Okay . So what , uh What just happened ? Just now ? Jus then ? In there ?
IKE: I do n't know . I , uh I frankly do n't even want to talk about it .
MAGGIE: Me , either .
IKE: I love you . I love you .
MAGGIE: I love you , too . They come up for air .
IKE: Wait . We have to talk . We have to do some talking now . Pull up a railing .
MAGGIE: To who ? Are you asking me ?
IKE: Me ?
MAGGIE: Yes , you !
IKE: Well , you do have the dress .
MAGGIE: And the church .
IKE: And the wedding date . There 's the two of us . So , you think maybe You have to go down the aisle with somebody you love and who love you back .
MAGGIE: I 'm okay with that .
IKE: So am I .
MAGGIE: So , we 'll
TED: Good night .
IKE: I 'm getting married .
ELLIE: Ike 's going to get married .
CINDY: I love his eyes . I just believe they 're listening to you .
PEGGY: His hair any color .
GRANDMA JULIA: I like his tight butt . Peggy laughs .
MAGGIE: Grandma !
PEGGY: See , this is a mature relationship . She 's really found it .
MEREDITH: The turnout for this morning 's wedding is usually reserved for royalty o Hollywood stars , but Maggie Carpente is Hale , Maryland 's special star and the citizens of Hale are out in full force today . The NY T-shirt Vendor pitches his wares .
MAGGIE: He 's not coming . Watch . He 's not coming .
PEGGY: No , no . I saw eight geese flying in a
MAGGIE: You and your lucky geese . You always see geese .
PEGGY: Not eight
CINDY: And in a `` V '' .
MAGGIE: Eight is good `` V '' could be Victory .
CINDY: Rub your ears .
PEGGY: Yes , rubbing your ears is very soothing . Cory does that to me when I hyperventilate . Maggie rubs her ears .
CINDY: We do it to our dog .
MAGGIE: It 's hurting .
CINDY: We 'll rub . After they rub Maggie 's ears a bit
PEGGY: He 's here ! He 's here !
CINDY: I 'll get the dress .
MAGGIE: He 's here ! He 's here !
PEGGY: Now 's the time for calm If you do n't calm down , you wo n't get your dress on He 's the one He 's the one .
MAGGIE: This is not a good sign .
CINDY: We have to hurry . The Sunday School kids will be here soon .
JULIE MURPHY: Well , the groom just pulled up . There was talk of a `` now show '' , but he is here .
DINA NAPOLI: Ike Graham is here !
IKE: Shoot ours so she has one with an ending .
MRS. PRESSMAN: It 's okay . There 's no microphone . You 're no fun .
IKE: No , I 'm not .
FISHER: Of course we are . Of course .
IKE: Then you 'll be my best man .
FISHER: Well , I 'm good , I do n't know if I 'm est .
IKE: Go talk to the pastor and he 'll tell you what to do . And someone will tell me what to do .
ELLIE: You always looked great in that suit And Ike ? I 'm happy for you , honey . Ellie whispers in his ear . ELLIE I 'll have a car around the back to whisk you out of here if she runs . Ellie kisses him on the cheek and walks away .
BOB: You look awful .
IKE: Thank you .
BOB: Ike . Need help ?
IKE: Really ?
BOB: I did n't want to find out I was n't fo her in the fourth quarter .
IKE: Got any last minute advice ?
BOB: Maintain eye contact .
IKE: Eye contact . Eye contact .
FISHER: I have no idea what I 'm doing .
IKE: Your job is the ring . Do you have the ring ? !
FISHER: I just found out I 'm best man ! I 'm lucky I have a suit What 's wrong ?
MRS. TROUT: You should thank Lou and I for the wedding car a '63 Buick .
IKE: Thank you .
MRS. TROUT: Oh , come on . You 're practically family .
FISHER: Hello . I 'm Fisher .
MRS. TROUT: This does n't want to come out .
FISHER: You just pull a hair from my neck .
IKE: Mrs. Trout , go back to your seat !
GRANDMA JULIA: Good luck , Maggie .
MAGGIE: Thank you , Grandma . Grandma leaves . Walter steps up .
WALTER: I 'm really rooting for this one .
MAGGIE: Thank you , Dad .
CINDY: Spit .
PEGGY: Let 's go .
MAGGIE: No sauntering down the aisle . Just make time . Let 's just get there .
ELAINE: Hi , I 'm Elaine from New York .
BOB: Hello . I 'm Bob , Maggie 's fourth attempt .
ELAINE: I 'm sorry .
BOB: That 's okay . There 's a lid for every pot . Besides , I 'm comfortable with Ike . I mean , Jack Dempsey lost his heavyweight title to a New Yorker .
ELAINE: I know . Gene Tunney .
DENNIS: They 're ready , Maggie .
MAGGIE: Just a second .
IKE: Block the doors !
MAGGIE: There 's a man coming down those steps with lots of candy in his pockets . If you tickle him , he 'll give candy .
IKE: Maggie !
ELLIE: Look , he 's running after her .
FISHER: Look , he 's in pretty good shape .
ELLIE: Poor Ike .
IKE: Maggie !
ELLIE: Where do you think she 's going ?
FISHER: Wherever it is , she 'll be there by ten- thirty tomorrow .
IKE: Maggie !
PEGGY: You okay ? I 'm closing .
MAGGIE: I 'm just finishing up , too .
PEGGY: Want to go to Butch 's for a drink o something ?
MAGGIE: No , I 'm just going to head home .
PEGGY: Okay .
MAGGIE: What are you talking about ?
PEGGY: Wedding . Wedding . You just have to get the rest of you ducks in a row .
MAGGIE: Thank you . You still think that he was .
PEGGY: Quick . Very quick .
VOICE: Marry me , Maggie .
MAGGIE: Hi , Dennis .
DENNIS: I am going to propose , you know . I mean , the right way . Soon as I turn eighteen .
MAGGIE: You 're sweet , Dennis . But you 've got to go . I 'm closing up . Here 's a candy ar and one for your brother . Dennis takes the candy and starts to go .
DENNIS: I 'm not giving up . A person should n't give up .
WALTER: That 's Maggie . Home for lunch .
GRANDMA JULIA: She 's been doing this since the last wedding . I do n't think it 's good .
MAGGIE: Hey . Grandma , what 's for lunch ?
GRANDMA JULIA: Turkey and cheese .
WALTER: Honey , your grandmother and I were thinking about opening a wedding gift museum . Walter laughs .
MAGGIE: STOP !
WALTER: What ?
MAGGIE: Just stop it . Do n't say another word like that .
WALTER: Maggie , it 's just a joke
MAGGIE: No . It 's my life .
WALTER: A harmless joke .
MAGGIE: No , it 's humiliating and you 've been doing it since I was a kid . I do n't like it . Stop . You may not like having a daughter with problems . But guess what ? I do n't like having a father who 's drunk all the time . I 'll eat in my room . Maggie takes a plate and exits .
GRANDMA JULIA: That needed to be said . You know you 're always making jokes about her , so they wo n't make jokes about you drinking . Walter reacts .
MAGGIE: I need a plan A plan to life What would Bruce Lee do ? He 'd kick some ass
IKE: Do n't tell me . My doorman is one of your many admires I knew I should have given him a better Christmas gift .
MAGGIE: I 've been making friends with your cat . Is it okay that I 'm here ?
IKE: I do n't have much choice in the matte now , do I ? But I ca n't speak fo Italics . Traitor ! He moves to the kitchen .
MAGGIE: I do n't blame you for being mad
IKE: Livid is good . So what is it , Maggie ? You here on business ? I saw your lamps . They 're terrific .
MAGGIE: It 's something I 've always wanted to do .
IKE: You actually could make breaking and entering into a new career . So , what are you doing here ?
MAGGIE: I wanted to talk to you about why I run or ride away from things .
IKE: Does it matter ?
MAGGIE: I think so When I was walking down the aisle ? I was walking toward somebody who did n't have any idea who I eally was . And it was only half the other person 's fault , because I had done everything to convince him that I was exactly what he wanted . So it was good that I did n't go through with it ecause it would have been a lie , but you you knew the real me .
IKE: Yes , I did .
MAGGIE: I did n't . And you being the one at the end of the aisle did n't just fix that .
IKE: No , I could n't fix anything But I still ended up chasing a truck .
MAGGIE: I understand why you bring up the truck . Let me explain something . The fact is , you 've seen me at my worst , most embarrassing , deviously plotting , potentially but not certifiably , psychotic state . And if you liked me then , I mean , now I ca n't imagine Benedict . Ike has no response . MAGGIE I love eggs Benedict . I hate all the other kinds . She hesitates . MAGGIE I hate big weddings with everybody staring . I would like to get married on a weekday while everybody is at work . If I ride off into the sunset , I want my own horse .
IKE: Should I be writing this down ?
MAGGIE: These are for you . He opens it . It 's her running shoes .
IKE: Used ?
MAGGIE: They 're mine . I 'm turning in my unning shoes to you .
IKE: This is getting serious .
MAGGIE: And one more thing . I know it 's hard to believe there could be more . Um
IKE: Oh my God . No .
MAGGIE: No , no do n't hide your face , this only happens once in a lifetime . It 's definitely a first to me , and you 're not going to want to miss it . He smiles as he looks at Maggie . MAGGIE I love you , Homer Eisenhower Graham . Will you marry me ?
IKE: Maggie , I got ta think about this a little bit . Maggie hops cheerfully back to her feet .
MAGGIE: Good . She gets off her knees and stands . MAGGIE I was hoping you 'd say that .
IKE: You were not .
MAGGIE: I was , because if you said `` yes '' right away , I would n't get to say this next part . And I 've been practicing it . Ready ?
IKE: I 'm listening .
MAGGIE: `` I guarantee that we 'll have tough times . I guarantee that at some point one or both oof us will want to get out . But I also guarantee that if I do n't ask you to be mine , I 'll regret it fo the rest of my life . Because I know in my heart you 're the only one for me '' . Ike takes her hands affectionately .
IKE: Pretty good speech , Maggie .
MAGGIE: I borrowed it from this guy I know . So ?
IKE: Dance with me . They start to dance a slow dance .
COMMENTATORS: in places the track is still dangerously wet , but following a drivers meeting the decision has been taken . The race is going ahead
NIKI: This is bullshit . We have no control over our legacy . We can not choose what we are remembered for
MECHANIC: Mass usa slicks . Le vuoi cambiare anche tu ?
NIKI: Otherwise I would n't be remembered fo my rivalry with this asshole . And the 1976 season .
MECHANIC: No , he 's going on wets .
NIKI: I do n't know why it became such a big thing . We were just drivers . Busting each other 's balls . To me this is perfectly normal . But other people saw it differently .
NIKI: Be , allora usiamo anche noi quells da agnato . The ten-second board is held up .
MECHANIC: Hair visto ? Ti aveto detto di usare le slicks !
NIKI: Bullshit . Where 's Hunt ?
MECHANIC: There !
NIKI: C'mon ! !
NIKI: No !
NURSE: Emergency
JAMES: I think the racetrack telephoned ahead that I was coming ? Hunt ? James Hunt.. ? JAMES notices all the NURSES staring..
NURSE: Are you all right ?
JAMES: Absolutely fine .
NURSE: We all thought you 'd been in an accident .
JAMES: I have . If you call a friendly disagreement with another driver an accident .
NURSE: What did you disagree about ?
JAMES: None of your business . Ouch .
NURSE: Sorry .
JAMES: His wife .
NURSE: That 's going to need a couple of stitches . It 's a nasty cut .
JAMES: It was a nasty blow . Done with a loody spanner .
NURSE: Why ? What did you do ?
JAMES: Nothing ! Only what she begged me to do .
NURSE: Which was.. ?
JAMES: Be happy to show you if you like .
NURSE: I 've never been to a Grand Prix efore .
JAMES: You still have n't . This is Formula 3 .
NURSE: What 's that ?
JAMES: A lower division . Where people like me mess about in the hope of finding sponsors or being talent-spotted to ace in Formula 1 . JAMES leads the NURSE into
NURSIE: Gemma
JAMES: Nursie , this is Doc our designer
DOC: How do you do ?
JAMES: Bubbles , our chief mechanic .
BUBBLES: How do you do ?
JAMES: Le Patron - Alexander , Lord Hesketh .
HESKETH: How do you do ?
NURSE: Fine , thanks . Blimeyis everyone in Formula 3 this posh ?
HESKETH: Glass of champagne , Nursie ?
NURSE: It 's Gemma . No , thanks .
HESKETH: You sure ? It 's Krug . Clos de Mesnil .
NURSE: It 's also ten in the morning .
HESKETH: Oh , dear . Superstar ? You have n't ought us a bore , have you ?
JAMES: Trust me . Nursie 's anything BUT a ore..
NURSE: That 's the car ?
BUBBLES: That 's her . The Dastle Mk 9with the Lotus twin-cam sixteen hundred engine . She 's no beauty . But goes like the clappers .
JAMES: Uuuurrrrrkkkkkkggghghhhh .
HESKETH: Nothing to be worried about ! Does it efore every race ! Good sign , actually . Means he 's stoked !
JAMES: Never better , Patron .
HESKETH: Have a gargle with this .
HESKETH: Quick toke of this
JAMES: Who 's that ?
DOC: He 's new . Some German .
BUBBLES: Austrian .
JAMES: Is there a difference ?
JAMES: All bloody Goosesteppers .
BUBBLES: That move was suicide !
HESKETH: It was also quite brilliant ! ! God he 's got balls ! !
NIKI: Umgotteswillen
JAMES: You mean the one you spun out of ? And finished facing the other way ? I think that corner had you . Laughter .
NIKI: That move was total suicide . What if I had n't braked ? We 'd have crashed.. ! !
JAMES: But we did n't , did we ? Thanks to you impeccable ` survival ' instincts JAMES makes chicken noises
NIKI: Fuck you ! What 's your name ?
HESKETH: James Simon Wallis Hunt . Remember it , my little Jerry friend . Because one day he will be World Champion .
JAMES: Jawohl . Remember ze name . Very simple . `` Hunt '' . It rhymes with .
NURSE: Who was that ?
JAMES: No one . Chippy little Kraut . Bad loser . Forget him .
GRANDFATHER: Never ! Racing is for playboys and dilettantes . Frivolous amateurs with nothing in their heads . The name ` Lauda ' appears on the front pages , with politicians and economists , not on the back pages with footballers and skiers . If you want my money , you do as I say and follow me into my business.. NIKI stares at his GRANDFATHER..
NIKI: Fine . Keep your money . Do n't invest in me . But when I 'm World Champion , and I have the trophy , and my name is not just on the back pages , but on the front too , you will regret it .
GRANDFATHER: You dare sit at my table and lecture me on what I will or wo n't regret ? Get out ! Impertinent wretch ! Conside yourself disowned !
BANKER: Another loan ? Herr Lauda , you still have n't repaid the other
BANKER 2: Three..
BANKER: Totalling millions of Schillings . Plus your Grandfather called to inform us he will no longer be offering security .
NIKI: I know . There is no room for failure . I understand that .
STANLEY: In return for your money you get a car , mechanics and a place on the team . Plus fifty per cent of starting fees and bonuses for podium finishes .
NIKI: Who 's the number one driver ?
STANLEY: Clay Regazzoni and you will defer to him at all times .
NIKI: Why would I defer to him if I am paying his wages ?
STANLEY: Because he 's a proven winner at the highest level , a good guy , and someone who quite frankly , could teach you a thing or two .
NIKI: OK . There is one clause missing .
STANLEY: The one about mechanics ' exclusivity ? Sorry . We have a cardinal rule at BRM . All information is shared between ALL our drivers..
NIKI: And I made it perfectly clear that my mechanics work for me . No one else . This is something I can not sign . NIKI takes back the cheque . STANLEY stares
STANLEY: All right . I 'll have the lawyers amend it .
NIKI: While you 're at it you can tell them to amend the clause for podium finishes . Podium is first THREE places , not just wins .
NIKI: You 'll get the money on signature , as agreed . See you at winter testing .
STANLEY: If that little git drives half as well as he negotiates , we 're going to be fine .
PRESENTER: I 'm delighted to say the winner of the British Guild of Motoring Writers award for the ` Most Promising Drive of the Year ' is James Hunt
JAMES: Thank you . My parents always wanted me to be a doctor , or stockbroker , and gave me a first class educationbut to no avail . My brothers are the success stories . I get bored easily . I have a hot head , an inability to tolerate discipline . I fall out with people left and right . I 'm quick to settle matters with my fists . The only creatures I 've ever loved and treated well , are budgerigars . In any normal area of life , I 'd beor AMa total liability . All I 've got going for me is I 'm quick in a car .
WOMAN: That 's not all ! Laughter .
JAMES: So thank you for acknowledging that . And giving me this I 'm going to give it to my Dad , and tell him to put it on the mantle-piece and imagine it 's a first class degree in medicine .
HESKETH: Well done , Superstar . One more season in F2 then I 'll move you up . To the ig time .
JAMES: You do n't think I 'm ready now ?
HESKETH: You are ! I 'm not ! I 've got to find you a car first . And the money . The economics of Formula 1 are terrifying .
BUBBLES: Hurry up . You do n't want him to do what Lauda did . ` Pop ' , HESKETH opens a bottle of champagne BUBBLES The Goosestepper . Remember him ? JAMES makes the chicken noises again..
JAMES: Is that what he called us ?
DOC: Charming !
HESKETH: Nothing wrong with being an amateur !
BUBBLES: Said if he was going to risk his life , he would only do so on the big oulette table . Formula 1 . So he got himself a drive with BRM .
JAMES: What ? How ? He never won a thing ! Not a single bloody race .
HESKETH: Amateurs are what made this country great .
BUBBLES: Took out a loan , apparently . Paid fo it himself .
HESKETH: `` In war , as in lovemaking , amateurs are invariably better than professionals . '' Napoleon Bonaparte .
BUBBLES: A hundred and fifty grand !
JAMES: A hundred and fifty grand ? JAMES stares . Already sick with envy .
NIKI: Niki Lauda . Here for pre-season testing . BRM ?
AGNES: Take a seat , please . I 'll get someone to come and collect you
NIKI: Lauda .
NIKI: Thank you .
AGNES: Excuse me ?
NIKI: Just wondered if you 've worked here long ?
AGNES: Almost eight years .
NIKI: That long ? And they did n't promote you yet ?
AGNES: Yes , several times . I am the AGNES . Agnes Bonnet . If you 're looking fo the receptionist , she 's on her lunch .
STANLEY: Niki , let me introduce you to ou number 1 driver , Clay Regazzoni..and our number 2 , Jean Pierre Beltoise..
MECHANIC: You want to see the car ?
NIKI: Same as Regazzoni 's ?
MECHANIC: Identical in every detail . NIKI scrutinizes the car
NIKI: She looks heavy . How much does she weigh ?
MECHANIC: 540 kilos .
NIKI: That 's crazy . Why so heavy.. ?
MECHANIC: It 's a 3 litre , V12 engine , that thing weighs 190k alone .
NIKI: What horsepower are you getting out of it ?
MECHANIC: 450 .
NIKI: Not enough . Needs to be 500 and the engine needs to be 20k lighter .
MECHANIC: We already tried
NIKI: Did you use magnesium parts ?
NIKI: And when we 've done that , we need to look at the aerodynamics . Front and ear wing.. More mutinous looks . `` Who is this asshole ? ''
STANLEY: Two minutes six seconds .
NIKI: OK. Now put him in my car , and he 'll go round under two minutes .
STANLEY: Six seconds faster ? Impossible .
NIKI: That 's information I will share with you under certain conditions only . STANLEY stares , bracing himself..
STANLEY: Go on
NIKI: A guaranteed place in the team , and a paid contract on equal terms with Regazzoni for two years .
STANLEY: Are you crazy ? Clay 's a senior figure in Formula Oneyou 're a rookie . The only reason we took you ON was because you were paying us .
NIKI: Well , as of now , if you want me to stay , we rip up the contract . I do n't pay you a cent .
STANLEY: It 's outrageous .
NIKI: Was he quicker in my car ? He was , was n't he ? STANLEY stares
STANLEY: One fifty-six .
NIKI: So have a think , work out you priorities , and get back to me . NIKI turns , and goes . STANLEY stares
STANLEY: Not even my WIFE speaks to me like that .
REGAZZONI: I know what you 're going to say . That it 's none of my business
NIKI: What ?
REGAZZONI: If it 's the Track Manager you 're taking on your date tonight ? NIKI immediately becomes defensive
NIKI: It 's none of your business .
REGAZZONI: Okay , but if you want my adviceI 'd let this one go . I 'm not questioning your taste . She 's a great girl .
NIKI: What 's his name ? The driver ?
REGAZZONI: Hunt . James Hunt . NIKI stares . Can hardly believe it .
NIKI: Thanks .
HESKETH: Keep them closed ! Wait for it , wait for it HESKETH removes JAMES 's blindfold
JAMES: She is a beauty . Buthave n't you made a mistake ?
HESKETH: What ?
JAMES: That 's not a Formula 2 car . She 's F1 .
HESKETH: She is , Superstar . Why ? Because I got together with the beancounters , and it turns out that the economics of F1 are not so significantly different to the economics of Formula 2
HESKETH: So we thought if we were going to be messing about losing money we might as well be doing it with the big boys .
JAMES: Are you serious ?
HESKETH: Never been more serious in my life !
JAMES: Well done the Goosestepper ! !
HESKETH: No sponsorship , Superstar ! I hope you approve .
JAMES: I do , Patron .
HESKETH: No vulgar logos for cigarettes , o condoms . Just plain white . With the Union Jack . And racing overalls which ead
JAMES: So when do we start ?
HESKETH: Soon as you 're ready .
JAMES: I 'm ready now .
HESKETH: That 's my boy ! HESKETH pops champagne
STIRLING MOSS: hard to tell whether Lord Hesketh and his team of upper class enthusiasts is bringing glamour to the acing community , or just comedy
STIRLING MOSS: it seems the driverjust twenty- six years old.was killed on impactand the death toll in Formula 1 shows no sign of slowing down
COMMENTATOR: in the last five years alone Formula 1 has lost Piers Courage , Jo Siffert , Peter Revson , Jochen Rindt , Francois Cevert , Roger Williamson
JAMES: They should cancel the race . Then , a distinctive Austrian accent..
NIKI: Why ? No one came to see him anyway . He made a mistake . Went into the corner too fast .
JAMES: Is that right ? So says the nobody who had to pay for his own drive . How 's that working out , by the way ?
NIKI: Fine . How 's it at the back ?
JAMES: Not planning on being there for long .
NIKI: Good . Look forward to you showing me the way today .
JAMES: ` Be happy to . I 'll have you inside lap one .
NIKI: Yeah right .
JAMES: Asshole . NIKI walks to his car , putting on his helmet .
NIKI: Asshole .
JAMES: Niki humiliated me today . He lapped me three times .
BUBBLES: He lapped Carlos Pace six times .
JAMES: That 's supposed to console me ? What do I need to do ?
PETER: Grow up .
JAMES: Shut up , Moneyman . ` Did n't ask you..
BUBBLES: Your brother 's right . You 've got to change your attitude . We all do . And match it with a whole different mental approach . Professionalism . Maturity . Like Niki .
PETER: Bet he does n't go out every night , drink and screw himself stupid .
JAMES: So speaks the jealous married man..
PETER: No . So speaks the manager who 's wasting his time , making ten per cent of absolutely nothing .
BUBBLES: You 've just got to take it more seriously . Yourself more seriously .
PETER: Something he 's never done .
JAMES: Don ` t patronize me , Pete
BUBBLES: We need you to spend less time in bars and nightclubs
PETER: Make that NO time
BUBBLES: And more time with the mechanics , setting up the car . That 's what Lauda does . 24 hours a day . JAMES rolls his eyes
JAMES: And the good news is I 've got Sigmund Freud Horsely , failed driver pa excellence , and a washed-up accountant to lecture me on it .
PETER: Jesus , James
JAMES: Bubbles ? I 'm sorry.. ! I did n't mean that ! Come back.. !
JAMES: .along the Beau Rivage , long left into Massenet , into the short right of Casino . Sharp right into Mirabeau , then sharp left into Loews , mind the guard rails
VOICE: Is Alexander around.. ?
JAMES: He was . Then went to the house to take a call . He 'll be back shortly .
SUZY: Only he wanted to show off his pride and joy SUZY indicates the car
JAMES: Why ?
SUZY: It 's just so small ! For something that costs so much . And so flimsy . There 's no comfort . No protection . Nothing .
JAMES: No . Just a little coffin , surrounded y high-octane fuel , being driven ound at 170 miles per hour..
SUZY: Why do n't they make it safer ?
JAMES: No one wants it to be . It 's like saying why not make bullfighting safer ? It 's a blood sport . The risk of death turns people on . Without it , I guess , it 'd be half the fun . Which is fine for the voyeurs , fine for TV , fine for everyone.. except us drivers .
SUZY: You 're James , are n't you ?
JAMES: Yes .
SUZY: Thought so . You fit the description . Suzy . Friend of Alex 's .
JAMES: I know exactly .
SUZY: Mostly positive in terms of appearance . Negative only in terms of character . I 've been told to avoid you .
JAMES: By whom ?
SUZY: Alex . He says you 're a bad boy .
JAMES: Was . Not any more . New me very professional . Early to bed . Early to ise . All very dull .
SUZY: Really ?
JAMES: Round-the-clock work , practise and focus . Tedious , but apparently the only way to vin against ze Goosestepper..
SUZY: Is that what you were doing when you came in ?
JAMES: Visualization techniques . Memorizing the circuit , in this case Monaco , which is next up . Eyes closed , know your way round in your sleep I knowI 've always been a great eliever in getting there on the day , putting the old foot down and playing chicken with everyone else . SUZY laughs..
SUZY: And your soul ? Your heart ?
JAMES: What does that mean ?
SUZY: You ca n't be so disciplined in all areas of your life , can you.. ?
JAMES: They want me to stop messing around , get married and settle down with the next nice girl I meet . They think it would be good for me .
SUZY: What do you think ?
JAMES: Sounds bloody awful . SUZY laughs again
BUBBLES: Nothing . I do n't want to ruin you day . BUBBLES stares , then reluctantly
BUBBLES: It seems your revenge against the Goosestepper might have to wait a little longer than you 'd hoped . He 's just been signed by Ferrari .
JAMES: WHAT ? ? ? But that 's the best team in the world . They could have ANYONE . Did he pay his way in there , too ?
BUBBLES: Apparently they took back Regazzoni and he insisted they give Lauda a trial . Thinks he 's a genius . Setting up the cars
NIKI: It 's terrible ! Drives like a pig !
MECHANIC: Sssshhh ! You ca n't say that !
NIKI: Why not ?
MECHANIC: It 's a Ferrari !
NIKI: I 've driven better milk floats . It understeers like crazy and the weight distribution is a disaster
MECHANIC: He says the car is magnificent , a masterpiece , but he has suggestions for one or two minor refinements
ENZO: We are happy to welcome back to the Ferrari family our good friend , Clay Regazzoniand also to introduce , from Austria Niki Lauda..
REGAZZONI: `` Ferrari Family '' . `` Our good friend , Clay Regazzoni '' .
NIKI: I understand . It 's business . I would e the same .
REGAZZONI: But it is n't just business , is it ? What we do ? It 's passion . Love . Which is why we 're prepared to risk ou lives for it .
NIKI: Not me . If I thought I had more talent and could earn better money doing something else , I would .
REGAZZONI: But how do you know you will make money here ? You have n't yet .
NIKI: Not yet . But I will . If you can , I can .
REGAZZONI: You know , are you ever NOT an asshole ? NIKI laughs
NIKI: Why am I an asshole ? You know by now I 'm both quicker than you and bette at setting up the car . You ca n't deal with that , then you 're the asshole .
REGAZZONI: Screw you . REGAZZONI pulls up outside the house REGAZZONI I brought you along today because you seem like a lonely kind of guy . I thought if I introduce you to some nice people , it 'd be good for you . Forget it . Make your own friends .
NIKI: I 'm sorry . C'mon , Clay
MARLENE: Yes .
NIKI: Can you give me a lift to the nearest town ? Anywhere with a train station .
MARLENE: Sure . Nearest town is half an hour 's drive . Get in .
NIKI: You hear that noise when you accelerate ?
MARLENE: No .
NIKI: Your drive belt is loose .
MARLENE: My what ?
NIKI: Alternator . And when you brake , you foot goes all the way down . Means there 's air in the system .
MARLENE: Anything else ?
NIKI: No . Apart from the rear brakes are imbalanced . The front right wheel is flat , and it feels like a crack in the engine blockwhich explains why you 're drifting so much .
MARLENE: How can you tell ?
NIKI: My ass .
MARLENE: What ?
NIKI: God gave me an OK mind , but a really good ass , which can feel everything in a car .
MARLENE: You do n't know what you 're talking about . The car is fine . And it just had a service a week ago .
NIKI: Not a good one .
MARLENE: A very good one . From a proper garage . It cost a fortune . This car is good as new . Relax .
NIKI: Nothing I can do here . The car needs a garage .
MARLENE: I 'm sorry . You 're not in a hurry , are you ?
NIKI: No . As long as I 'm back in Maranello y Monday morning .
MARLENE: So who are you anyway ?
NIKI: Who 's Curd ?
MARLENE: Curd Jurgens . The actor . It 's his house . He is , or was until yesterday , my boyfriend . I must have been mad ! There is something very attractive about an older man when they behave like one . But when they behave like a frightened child.. MARLENE gets to her feet
MARLENE: Not bad , eh ? Three seconds . Admit it , you 're impressed.. !
ITALIAN MAN: Excuse meare you Niki Lauda ?
NIKI: Yes .
ITALIAN MAN: Oh , my God ! ! ! I told you it was him.. ! ! ! Do you need a ride ?
NIKI: Yes , we do
ITALIAN MAN: An honour , please ! ! ! But on one condition..
MARLENE: Will someone please tell me what 's going on ? MARLENE turns to NIKI
MARLENE: Who are you , anyway ? What do you DO ?
ITALIAN MAN: You do n't know ? He 's a Formula I driver . Who just signed for Ferrari !
MARLENE: Him ? Never . Impossible !
ITALIAN MAN: Why ?
MARLENE: Formula 1 drivers have long hair , are sexy , have shirts open to here.. MARLENE indicates
NIKI: No need to drive fast . It only increases the percentage of risk . We 're not in a hurry . No one is paying me . Right now , with zero incentive o eward , why would I drive fast ?
MARLENE: Because I 'm asking you to .
NIKI: And do you always get what you want ?
MARLENE: Usually .
MARLENE: Oh , my God ! !
JAMES: Congratulations .
NIKI: Thank you .
JAMES: Though with a car like that , the rest of us never stood a chance
NIKI: Maybe the fact the car is so good might have something to do with me .
JAMES: You 're still in a Ferrari . And I 'm still in a Hesketh . On equal terms , the way it was in Formula 3 , I 'd beat you , and you know it .
NIKI: Never . You might get lucky and win one ace . Maybe two . Because you 're aggressive . But in the long run , ove the course of a season , no chance .
JAMES: Why 's that ?
NIKI: Because you 're not serious . You 're just a party guy . Which is why everyone likes you .
JAMES: Now try saying that and tell me you 're not jealous .
NIKI: But all that affection , all those smiles is also a sign of thei disrespect ! They do n't fear you . Whereas compare that to me
JAMES: Whom no one likes
NIKI: Right..
JAMES: Not even his own team-mates..
NIKI: Right ! Because I 'm relentless . I do n't screw up . I go to bed early . I look after myself , look after my car . And then , soon as the race is finished , I go home . You should go home more often , too . I heard you got married .
JAMES: I did .
NIKI: So where is she ?
JAMES: In New York . Working .
NIKI: You know I 've never seen you with her , once NIKI turns to MARLENE , `` Let 's go '' ..
JAMES: Right , whatever it takes to beat Lauda , just say it , your word is my command . I 'll do it . There are no lengths to which I will not go . And I mean it this time JAMES stops , noticing BUBBLES 's expression
HESKETH: Do you know what the date is today ?
JAMES: November 14th .
HESKETH: Do you have any idea of the significance of that date ?
JAMES: I 'm assuming it refers to some animal you are allowed or no longer allowed to slaughter on your estate .
HESKETH: Actually it 's the deadline fo securing sponsorship for the forthcoming Formula 1 season . Which elapsed at midnight last night . And we did n't attract any .
JAMES: So ? We are n't looking for sponsorship . Condoms and cigarettes . Vulgar , right ?
HESKETH: Right . Except we are . Or were . I 've made something of a miscalculation . The economics . Formula 1 . Reality thereof . Turns out not like the lowe divisions at all .
JAMES: What are you saying ?
HESKETH: I 'm saying it 's over , Superstar . The anks have stepped in . Read me the iot act . Started laying everyone off . Probably have to sell this place . Fun while it lasted , would do it all again and all that I dare n't tell you the actual figures . JAMES stares at a devastated HESKETH
JAMES: Christ .
SUZY: Do n't worry . Something will turn up .
JAMES: What were you hoping for ? A well- adjusted knight in shining armour ?
SUZY: No danger of that .
JAMES: Let me give you some advice .
SUZY: I 'm all ears
JAMES: Do n't go to men who are willing to kill themselves driving in circles looking for normality .
SUZY: Well , I certainly did n't get that
JAMES: Should have gone for one of my others .
SUZY: There goes that self-pity again . How striking it is -
JAMES: What 's that ? Tell me..
SUZY: The gulf between appearance and eality . Look at you , all sunshine londe beauty and smilesyet the eality isa frightened , immature , depressed , self-pitying child
JAMES: At least there 's SOMETHING behind the facade .
SUZY: With a nasty temper..
JAMES: Fuck off to New York , dear . There must e a moisturizer or eye shadow somewhere that needs your vapid mush to flog it .
SUZY: How quickly beauty can turn ugly .
JAMES: Agreed . Repellent .
MAYER: I 'll come straight to the point . Ou esteemed lead driver
CALDWELL: Fitti-fucking-paldi..
MAYER: Has ditched us for another team at the last minute..
CALDWELL: In November . Fucking outrageous .
MAYER: And we need a replacement . Asap . Thankfully a few hands have already gone up . Good people
CALDWELL: Like Jackie Ickx .
JAMES: I 'm quicker than Jackie .
MAYER: But he 's consistent , dependable . Sponsor friendly . He 'll dress up nice . Say the right things .
JAMES: What do you want ? A driver or a ushes salesman ?
MAYER: We want to be successful .
JAMES: So do I . But I measure that in podium finishes and beating Niki Lauda not eing a show pony for sponsors .
MAYER: I 've heard about this thing with Lauda .
CALDWELL: Everyone has..
MAYER: You really think you can beat him ? He 's World Champion .
JAMES: I beat him in Formula 3 .
CALDWELL: This season alone he 's had eight podiums , five wins , you 've had what ?
HOGAN: One .
JAMES: Only because I 've been in the wrong car . I beat him when the playing field was level . I 'd beat him again in a McLaren .
JAMES: I 'll do whatever you ask . Even put on a suit , talk to sponsors and say the ight thing . I promise . Just give me the drive
COMMENTATOR: welcome to the Kyalami Racetrack where the big news is..
JAMES: New car .
NIKI: I noticed .
JAMES: Pole position .
NIKI: I noticed that , too .
JAMES: Level playing field now , my ratty little friend .
NIKI: Let 's see where we are at the end of lap one .
LIZ TAYLOR: Will this take very long ?
OFFICIAL: Richard BurtonSuzy Miller , also known as Mrs. James Hunt .
BURTON: Who ?
SUZY: James Hunt . One of the racers .
BURTON: Forgive me . Richard . Also known as Mr. Elizabeth Taylor . He indicates LIZ who is deeply bored..
LIZ TAYLOR: What does a girl have to do to get a drink around here ?
JAMES: My car was n't right today . Next time I 'll have you..
NIKI: Yeah , yeah
JAMES: What did I tell you ? Car fixed . Equal terms . You 'd better get used to this .
OFFICIAL: The car is too wide..
JAMES: Five eighths of an inch.. !
OFFICIAL: Which makes it illegal ! If you want to compete , you have to change it .
JAMES: What ? You ca n't just ` change it ' . That means rebuilding the car . Who lodged the complaint ? It was Ferrari , was n't it ?
MAYER: we have to move the wing forward . To make it legal
CALDWELL: But that 'll have a knock-on effect on the oil coolers..
JAMES: No ! No ! No !
JAMES: What 's happened ? What have you DONE ? ? The car 's evil ! It 's undriveable.. !
NIKI: Sosix races in . How 's it going so far ?
JAMES: Fine ! Just got a little problem with a ad loser rat and his team of Italian saboteurs who 've destroyed my car .
NIKI: What are you talking about ?
JAMES: I won that race in Spain . And you know it .
NIKI: In an illegal car .
JAMES: The aerofoil was five eighths of an inch too long ! ! Something that does n't have the slightest effect on ca speed . You complained . Now we 've had to totally rebuild the car and it 's ecome a monster .
NIKI: At least it 's a LEGAL monster .
JAMES: A car that was beating you week in week out , so you have to resort to this . Cheating .
NIKI: He drives in an illegal car and he calls ME the cheat ? Let me tell you two weeks before that race in Spain , we put 20-inch rims on the rea wheels . We get an extra half second speed on each lap ! ! But the Old Man tells me we ca n't use those rims , they make the car too wide . Against the ules . So we go back to 19-inch rims making the car slower again . Rules are ules . For all of us . You 're just a ad loser who ca n't accept that . Komm , he 's crazy . Sick in the head . NIKI turns to MARLENE , speaks in German
JAMES: Is there something I should know about Suzy ? Where is she ? Was n't she supposed to be here today ?
CALDWELL: We kept it from you . Did n't want to tell you before the race
JAMES: Jesus .
SUZY: Why have you come here , James ?
JAMES: To get you back .
SUZY: You do n't want me backyou neve wanted to be married in the first place . You did it because you hoped it might change yousettle you down help with the racing . Not because you loved me . And who knows , if it had een just the drinking , or the dope , or the infidelity , or the moodsit might even have workedbut when it 's all of them ?
JAMES: I know . I 'm terrible .
SUZY: No , you 're not terrible . You 're justwho you areat this point in your life . And God help anyone that wants more .
JAMES: Will he be able to give you more ? He has quite the bad boy reputation himself .
SUZY: What 's important is how it feels to me . And it feels like he adores me . A flicker behind JAMES 's eyes . Failure .
JAMES: Right .
SUZY: He 's aware of the delicacy of the situation , and how it looks . Having aided your larder . Plundered you safe . Smash and grab , and so forth . So he 's assured me he 'll take care of the financial side . And will be very generous . JAMES manages a brave smile .
JAMES: Fine . I 'll give him a call .
SUZY: No . His lawyers will contact you .
JAMES: It 's all very amicable . My wife has found herself a new backerI mean loverwhich makes her happy.. Mr. Burton has found a way of feeling young againlet 's hope his pockets are deepthey 'll need to be And I 've found a way to be single again without it costing me a penny , which has to go down as the biggest win of my career .
FIA OFFICIAL: Following an inquiry into the disqualification of driver James Hunt from the Spanish Grand Prix , it has een decided to overturn this disqualificationand to restore his victory , and reinstate his points..
STIRLING MOSS: James , a few weeks ago , you were out of the running for this season completely , now you 're right back in it . What 's changed ?
JAMES: A combination of factors , not all of which I 'm prepared to discuss here . Justice being done re the disqualification in Spain helps , and having my old car back of course
JOURNALIST: Mathematically in theory it 's now possible for Hunt to catch you . Are you worried ?
NIKI: Not at all . For him to catch me , he 'd have to win all the remaining races , and I 'd have to lose them . And pigs would have to fly . Laughter among the confident GERMANS .
MARLENE: Come to bed . MARLENE notices his mood . It 's different .
NIKI: It 's the enemy , you know . Happiness . NIKI looks up at MARLENE
MARLENE: When you call happiness an enemy , then it 's too late . Then you have lost already . MARLENE turns , and goes..
CALDWELL: We 've just been told , a driver 's meeting has been called .
JAMES: Who by ?
CALDWELL: Niki . JAMES 's face . Instantly suspicious .
NIKI: Thank you . I called this meeting ecause as all drivers know the Nurburgring is a race track from the Stone Ages . The most stupid , barbaric , outdated , dangerous , track in the world . You 've all seen the rain which has been falling this morning . Those of you with experience know the Ring needs perfect conditions to be even emotely acceptable in terms of risk . As you can see today is anything BUT perfect , so I called this meeting to take a vote to cancel the race .
MAYER: This is bullshit
EDWARDS: If the race is cancelled , none of us get our race fees
NIKI: It 's true . You leave without your fee , ut you might leave with your LIFE . Another voice pierces the controversy
VOICE: It also means you would effectively win the championship . It 's JAMES HUNT , who is standing up
JAMES: So I can see why this suits you just fine .
NIKI: Why ? There would be no points for me either
JAMES: But there would be one race less where I , or anyone else , could catch you . Uproar in the room
BRETT LUNGER: James is right ! This is just tactics !
ARTURO MERZARIO: Ferrari 's dirty tricks ! We 've seen it efore !
HARALD ERTL: Maybe it 's just that he 's frightened ? Laughter among the DRIVERS
NIKI: Which asshole said this ?
JAMES: Fine . Then let 's race !
MERZARIO: And some of us need our race fees ! !
FIA OFFICIAL: All those in favour of cancelling the ace ?
CALDWELL: Jochen 's going on slicks . You want to change ?
JAMES: Has Niki changed ?
CALDWELL: No . He 's going on wets .
JAMES: Then we go on wets , too .
CALDWELL: See ? I told you to go on slicks ! ! You did n't take my advice
JAMES: Shut up ! Where 's Niki ?
CALDWELL: Behind you ! He made the same mistake !
JAMES: What 's up ?
MARSHALL: Accident . Bad one .
JAMES: Who ?
MARSHALL: We do n't know yet .
NIKI: AAAAARRRRGHGHGGHGH ! ! ! !
DOCTOR: It 's not the burns to his face that are the danger . It 's the burns to his lungs . His blood oxygen level is currently
NURSE: 6.8 .
DOCTOR: Which is not enough to maintain life
PRIEST: durch diese heilige Salbung helfe dir der Herr in seinem reichen Erbarmen , er stehe dir bei mit de Kraft des Heiligen Geistes
DOCTOR: Frau Lauda ? Bitte kommen Sie ! He 's awake ! And just spoke ! MARLENE scrambles to her feet
MARLENE: What did he say ?
DOCTOR: `` Tell the Priest to fuck off ! I 'm still alive ! ! ''
NIKI: Aaarrrggghhhh
NIKI: Aaaaarrrrggghghhhhhh ! !
JAMES: What 's going on ?
CALDWELL: Jesus . It 's Niki .
JAMES: What about him ?
CALDWELL: He 's here ! He 's racing !
JAMES: What ? ? They said he was half-dead . JAMES stares . Shaken .
NIKI: Wow . It 's that bad , huh ?
JAMES: I wrote you a letter at the time . To apologize .
NIKI: Yes . You did .
JAMES: That race should never have gone ahead .
NIKI: No .
JAMES: So in some waysI feel responsible for what happened . I 'm sorry .
NIKI: Trust me , watching you win those points and all those races while I was in hospital fighting for my lifeyou were equally responsible for getting me better .
JAPANESE JOURNALIST: How are you feeling , Niki ?
NIKI: Fine .
AMERICAN JOURNALIST: Can you confirm for us exactly which procedures you have had ? And the expectations for your recovery ?
NIKI: Sure . I had a skin graft operation where they put half my right thigh in my face . It does n't look too good but one unexpected advantage is it 's impossible to perspire through a skin graft , so sweat will never run in my eyes again - which is good for a driver .
BRAZILIAN JOURNALIST: When they heard about your condition , Ferrari immediately hired anothe driver , Carlos Reutemann .
NIKI: Ja . Before even my first operation .
JAPANESE JOURNALIST: Is he your replacement now ?
NIKI: No . Just another team-mate . Keen to make an impression . So let 's see where Mr. Reutemann finishes today . Laughter .
JAPANESE JOURNALIST: James Hunt and McLaren have caught up a lot while you were away .
NIKI: Yes . Is there a question now ? Or are you just trying to piss me off ? Laughter .
JAPANESE JOURNALIST: You think you can still win ?
NIKI: Of course . I have the better car . I 'm the better driver . But he 's a cleve guy and has used the time well while I was lying half-dead in hospital to win some points.. Laughter .
BRITISH JOURNALIST: What did your wife say when she saw your face ?
NIKI: She said , `` Sweetie , you do n't need a face to drive . Only a right foot . '' Laughter .
BRITISH JOURNALIST: I 'm being serious . Do you really think your marriage can survive ? With the way you look now ? Silence . NIKI squints into the lights..
NIKI: And I 'm being serious , too . Which asshole said this ? Jesus..
JAMES: Hey.. ! The REPORTER turns , recognizes JAMES..
JAMES: Prick !
STIRLING MOSS: What a race ! What a man ! What a season ! Now it all boils down to the final race in Japan !
JAMES: I 've got to go .
STEWARDESS: Hi . We 've come for the party ?
JAMES: What party ?
STEWARDESS: The party we were told was going on in oom 2109 .
JAMES: Who sent you here ?
STEWARDESS: A man . On the phone . He did n't give his name .
JAMES: This man . Did he speak with an accent ?
STEWARDESS: Yes . German accent . JAMES ca n't believe it . NIKI .
JAMES: I 'm afraid it was a joke..
STEWARDESS: Awwww . Pity .
JAMES: Sorry , ladies . Any other time . Not tonight .
NIKI: Ca n't see the mountain .
DUNGL: So ?
NIKI: The locals here believe if you can see the mountain in the morning , it brings good luck .
TANNOY: All drivers to the control tower , please . Immediately . JAMES looks at CALDWELL
AKIYAMA: One at a time ! Gentlemen , please !
TAKAHARA: You ca n't send us out in that ! It 's a death sentence !
HASEMI: You have to postpone the race !
MAYER: Niki 's talking to them about cancelling the race .
JAMES: I do n't want any part of this . I 'm not going to be responsible for turning the room again .
CALDWELL: But you have no option . You HAVE to ace , James . It 's your only shot . If you do n't , Niki wins..
JAMES: I 'm not voting against Niki again.or forcing fellow drivers to isk their lives . Sorry . World Championship or not
MAYER: Do n't worry , this race is going ahead . The TV rights have been sold all around the world .
CALDWELL: Keep still
JAMES: What are you doing ? ? ?
CALDWELL: To let the condensation out .
JAMES: But it will also let the water in .
CALDWELL: Not if you 're leading . CALDWELL stares at JAMES
CALDWELL: Hold onto it , James.. !
HESKETH: Concentrate , Superstar !
SUZY: Come on , James
CALDWELL: God ! His front tyre ! Look ! It 's completely frayed !
COMMENTATOR: Hunt 's car has problemsit 's shakingthe Englishman is definitely getting slower
COMMENTATOR: with just a few laps to go , McLaren are calling for Hunt to come into the pits to change tyres
BUBBLES: James ! ! What are you doing ? ? ?
HESKETH: I ca n't bear it !
JAMES: No ! No ! NO ! ! ! !
MAYER: Sorry ? ? What are you talking about ? ? You did it !
JAMES: What ?
MAYER: You WON ! !
JAMES: Rubbish ! ! What about Niki ? ? He overtook me ! ! I saw it ! ! A Ferrari with a red helmet..
MAYER: That was n't Niki . That was Regazzoni .
JAMES: What ? ? ?
MAYER: Niki withdrew . Said it was too dangerous , refused to drive ! ! You 're Champion of the World , kiddo !
HESKETH: He did it ! He bloody well did it !
SUZY: Well done , James..
MARLENE: Are you OK ?
NIKI: Fine . It 's just one race .
JAMES: I heard you were spending more and more time in one of these
NIKI: Do you fly ?
JAMES: No .
NIKI: You should try it . If something goes wrong up there , you 're on the edge , ut have to stay within the rules . Stick to regulations . Suppress the ego . It 's good discipline for the acing .
JAMES: And there I was thinking you were about to wax lyrical about the romance of flight . I should have known better .
NIKI: What brings you here ?
JAMES: A friend 's wedding . At least I think it was a wedding . Might have been a irthday . All a bit of a blur . How about you ? Been at Fiorano ?
NIKI: Pre-season testing .
JAMES: Already ? In February ? You 're elentless .
NIKI: Thank you .
JAMES: I 'm not sure I meant it as a compliment .
NIKI: But it is one . Relentlessness is good . Means you 're a fighter . That you neve give up . Behind my back I know some of you guys call me ` The Rat . ' Because I look like one . It 's meant as an insult . But I do n't mind it . Rats are ugly , sure . And no one likes them . But they 're intelligent . With a strong survival instinct . JAMES ca n't help smiling . That 's NIKI .
JAMES: Are you mad ? I did n't just win the iggest thing of my life so I could get right back to work .
NIKI: Why ? You need to . To prove to all the people who will always say you only won it because
JAMES: Because what ? Because of you accident ? Is that other people , Niki ? Or you ? I won . On the all important day when it came down to it , we raced on equal terms in equally good cars .
NIKI: It 's true . You won that race . And elieve me if I had to lose that title to anyone , I 'm happy it was you . But that does n't change the fact you have to win again .
JAMES: Why ?
NIKI: Because that 's what it means to be a winner , no ? It 's a permanent condition . Never stops or goes away . It stays with you always .
JAMES: That 's winning ? Sounds like losing to me . Some of life needs to be fo pleasure , Niki . What 's the use of having a million cups and medals if you never have any fun ? How is that winning ?
NIKI: You 're right . I could learn from you . In hospital the toughest part of my treatment was the vacuum . Pumping the shit out of my lungs . It was agony . While doing it , I was watching televisionyou winning all those acesand I was cursing you.. `` That astard , Hunt '' , I would shout , `` I hate that guy . '' one day the doctor said , `` Mr. Lauda , may I offer one piece of advice ? Stop thinking of it as a curse to have been given an enemy in life . It can be a blessing , too . '' I said , `` Who are you , Confucius ? '' He said , `` A wise man gets more from his enemies than a fool from his friends . '' And you know , he 's right . Look at us . We were a pair of kids when we first met . Hotheaded jerks in Formula 3 . Headed nowhere . Now we 're both Champions of the world . Not bad .
JAMES: No , not bad .
NIKI: So do n't let me down now . I need you usting my balls . Get back to work .
JAMES: I will , Niki . But I intend to enjoy myself first . And so should you . You think you can ? NIKI stares . A blank look..
NIKI: You will . Champ .
REPORTER: Eager to mend its tarnished image , Los Angeles has really put out the welcome mat for tomorrow 's summit . The city promises quite a party as leaders from Japan , China , South Korea , Australia , the U.S. and others begin talks for the largest free-trade treaty in history .
SAM: I ca n't stand it half an hour to get to the stupid school every morning with no music
CARSON: Son of a bitch !
MIRANDA: Pete please we have to be up early tomorrow . Call the police .
CARSON: Yeah , right .
WESTEC GUARD: Everybody chill ! Bikini boy ! On the ground !
CARSON: Asshole was trying to boost my car !
NEIGHBOR: Been trying It 's busy . He 's the good guy , you schumcks .
CARSON: I hate this fuckin ' town .
JOY: There are six bathrooms in this house , Sam .
SAM: But only one with a smoking section .
AMBASSADOR HAN: Ambassador Han 's X-ray stare turns to Joy .
MRS. HAN: It 's the Governess Hello , Hilda
GOVERNESS: Mrs. Han I am very sick today
MRS. HAN: We will see you next week It appears I 'll be taking you to school .
JAVAL: Very good . You may go now
BOBBI: Good morning , Summit Day ! It 's gon na be the Super Bowl , the 4th of July , the Olympics and Woodstock all olled into one ! All over town there 'll be parades , concerts , allies , festivals So get out there everyone , but plan your drive- time accordingly ! This is Bobbi Marchfelder , your Eye in the Sky
PRESIDENT: It 's an honor hosting my fellow leaders in Los Angeles , the capitol city of the Pacific Rim
MORNING ANCHOR: We 'll see the menu for Mayo Simpson 's Brentwood barbecue , right after this
MIRANDA: I was watching that .
CARSON: If I hear one more Beach Boys song , I 'll shoot myself .
MIRANDA: Be right with you
CARSON: Shop 's gon na tow the car in goddamn ignition 's trashed .
MIRANDA: Take mine . I 'll ride in with Diane .
CARSON: You ask me , those suckers are a lost cause .
MIRANDA: It 's not for you .
CARSON: You mean it 's not for you .
MIRANDA: I do n't chase car thieves in my underwear . C'mon , you 'd die of oredom if we ever sold this house and moved .
CARSON: I 'd die of shock , from finding anyone dumb enough to buy the place . Even for what it 's worth now .
MIRANDA: Lots of people bought at the top of the market
CARSON: That sure cheers me right up .
MIRANDA: I do n't know why we even talk about it . The city 's not the problem . So we move . It would n't matter . What 's that saying `` Wherever you go , there you are . ''
CARSON: One cut two assholes in the hospital Yep . Carson glances at his watch and gets up .
MIRANDA: Ask for a transfer .
CARSON: They 're not gon na transfer me . You know damn well why I was bumped down to guard duty My outstanding people skills .
LISA: Hey , Joy Sam
SAM: The glass is an inch thick . Armor-plated . Bulletproof . Bomb- proof .
LISA: Perfect car for L.A. Starts , too .
ROBBINS: Yo , Dave the Computer Man ! Actually escaped the office !
DAVE: I 'm doin ' field upgrades . Gives 'em a chance to hose out my cage . He glances through the window at Colonel Lee .
ROBBINS: Their Chief of Security , Colonel Lee .
SABATINI: `` Chuckles , '' as we 're inclined to call him . Friggin ' graveyard shift
ROBBINS: Love to know what dope made it the Bureau 's job to give full-time protection to foreign consulates . Cup a mud ?
DAVE: Not if you made it . Why do n't you get Sabatini to brew the java ? She 's the alleged chick .
SABATINI: Blow me .
DAVE: Where 's Carson ?
SABATINI: On his way . Some creeps tried to rip off his Mustang last night . They cut the ragtop .
DAVE: Motherfuckers
SABATINI: Whoa , slow down , I 'm gon na pee .
ROBBINS: Me , too .
DAVE: Ingrates .
JAVAL: You see that I 'm serious in my intention , yes ? If you cooperate , you and you children will be home for dinne tonight .
AMBASSADOR HAN: Someone took my family !
SABATINI: You got no jurisdiction outside this property !
AMBASSADOR HAN: My men are going !
ROBBINS: Keys !
SABATINI: You 're ridin ' shotgun .
ROBBINS: Cherry ?
DAVE: Under the seat .
ROBBINS: Siren ?
DAVE: I do n't know ! I 'm never in a fuckin ' hurry.. !
SABATINI: Someone snatched Han 's family ! White phone van , westbound on Washington !
CARSON: Give me a secure radio !
WALTHER: Clothes make the man .
SECRETARY: Mr. Walther priority line !
WALTHER: This is Diplomatic Liaison Earl Walther What 's the nature of you emer Aw , Jesus not today I 'll inform channels and get a copte in the air . For God 's sake , keep it quiet . Do what you can , but do n't endanger civilians or the family !
CARSON: You bet nice and easy .
WALTHER: Get the Secretary of State on the horn . I know he left already . I 'm familia with the concept of time zones . Find his ass .
CARSON: Robbins , Sabatini Chopper 's on its way .
SABATINI: Do n't puke I hate when guys puke !
CARSON: He 's gon na wrap it around something !
COLONEL LEE: You should not have interfered !
CARSON: I 'm in no mood
ROBBINS: Forget about him !
CARSON: Let 's get back to the Consulate . Off their perplexed looks , we
JAVAL: Does anyone need to use the rest oom ? This will be your last opportunity for a few hours . Very well . Mrs. Han , Sam , Joy , please sit here . And you what is your name ?
LISA: Lisa
JAVAL: No , Mrs. Han , this one . Thank you .
MRS. HAN: I do n't understand
JAVAL: Kaboom
COMMENTATOR #1: Not since the '84 Olympics has the whole city had an such an opportunity
WALTHER: Carson ? Walther . Who told the Ambassador ?
CARSON: His Security Chief . There was a civilian with them fifteen-year-old girl from across the street . We 're trying to reach the parents .
WALTHER: Goddamn it Look , Mrs. Han was the North Korean Premier 's niece ! We 're hearing umors they 're gon na make a majo issue out of what happened here
CARSON: I 'm not so sure what happened here . Something smells . Asshole was acting like he wanted us to spot him
WALTHER: What the hell are you talking about ?
AMBASSADOR HAN: I have no wish for condolences . Just answers .
WALTHER: As soon as we have any to give
AMBASSADOR HAN: Yoon.. ? !
CARSON: Start a trace !
WALTHER: Mr. Secretary they 're alive !
COLONEL LEE: You are tapping our phones ? !
CARSON: Yeah , you did n't know . And I 'm Meryl Streep .
MRS. HAN: We are not hurt . But this man is very serious
JAVAL: I want you to remember the feeling you had when you thought your family was dead , and use it to inform the choices you 're about to make .
CARSON: Say you want to talk to the kids
AMBASSADOR HAN: I need to know my children are all ight .
DAVE: Play the tape back . I might be able to pull the electronic serial numbe out of the subcarrier .
ROBBINS: Hey , great idea
AMBASSADOR HAN: P'yngyang must approve the ransom
WALTHER: Of course . The FBI 's top Hostage Negotiator is on the way
CARSON: Goddamn Negotiator 's the last thing we need ! This asshole sound like he was interested in bargaining ?
WALTHER: We have people who are experts in these situations . We really feel it would be best if you let them coordinate everything Numb , Ambassador Han nods .
CARSON: You 're gon na just pay up , count on his good nature to return the family ? !
WALTHER: It 's the President 's intention to keep this quiet , move forward with the Summit , and work with the North Koreans . Jesus , you 've already embarrassed the shit out of us ove the phone surveillance
CARSON: They know their phones are tapped ! They tap our fucking phones !
WALTHER: That 's not the point ! The point is not acknowledging it ! We got an international incident ewing , with a country we were practically at war with last year ! Our best Negotiator is gon na run point . If you got a problem , you can take the goddamn rest of the day off .
CARSON: This Consulate is my responsibility .
WALTHER: Not any more .
CARSON: Our worst enemy 'll be the city . There are events gearing up all around town , and a dozen world leaders arriving . Add the Friday ush hour and usual L.A. bad ehavior and it 'll be a nightmare out there by 3 PM . It all works to the advantage of the kidnapper , hinders our pursuit efforts You do n't agree ?
MIRANDA: I 'm wondering whether to believe him when he says he 's strictly motivated y money .
CARSON: You see one word of Peoples'- Liberation , Holy-Jihad , Revolutionary whatever-it-is-we're-pissed-off-about- this-week bullshit in this entire letter ?
MIRANDA: I still want to check the MO against known politicals , terrorists
CARSON: Already doing it . We 're coordinating with the Secret Service , the NSA and the CIA .
MIRANDA: Have someone talk to the LAPD , give them a cover story for the media about the crash on La Cienega . Walther comes in and looks at Carson .
WALTHER: Why did n't you tell me Doctor Knoll is your wife ? !
CARSON: If she 'd changed her name when we got married , I would n't have to .
MIRANDA: I 'm so enjoying this opportunity to finally work together
WALTHER: Jesus , forget I asked . The cash will be here in an hour . Any thoughts on the kidnapper 's thoughts ?
MIRANDA: Everything indicates he 's working alone . And his concerns do seem to e solely about the money so I agree that he 's only using the Summit and the tension with North Korea to create extreme motivation to pay the ransom .
COLONEL LEE: I will bring the money to him .
CARSON: My ass .
COLONEL LEE: The hostages are citizens of the People 's Republic of Korea
CARSON: Hey , do I go to the torture chambers in your prisons , tell you how to do your job ?
WALTHER: All right , you 're outta here ! Is this the same insubordinate crap you pulled at Beverly Thrift ? Carson glares coldly at Walther .
CARSON: I 'll coordinate the drop .
AMBASSADOR HAN: Perhaps that is better . Inspecto Carson knows the terrain
COLONEL LEE: Then he can come with me .
WALTHER: It 's settled .
CARSON: It sucks .
MIRANDA: But it means we can get on with it . The Americans leave the room .
JAVAL: That 's more like it
OPERATIVE: They 've got the Premier agreeing to the hard-line position He hears footsteps approaching .
DAVE: I wanted to be home by now , take the kids to the rally in Boyle Heights .
SABATINI: We got a cabin in Big Bear . By now , L.A. was supposed to be a brown lotch in the rear-view mirror .
MIRANDA: He 'll expect a homing device
CARSON: I expect him to expect it . He 'll check the cash with an RF detector Meaning he 'll find this one . This only has a quarter-mile range , ut on a frequency too low to detect . And I doubt the asshole will have an X-ray machine or a metal detector .
MIRANDA: Why must you always refer generically to criminals as `` assholes ? ''
CARSON: Gosh , you 're right . It could undermine their self-esteem and spoil their chances for rehabilitation .
MIRANDA: You been reading my magazines in the athroom again ? She returns to listening to an AUDIO TAPE
CARSON: Just tell me if we can use it .
MIRANDA: If we needle him he could get sloppy and give us an opening , but I 'm not going to risk it . This is the worst kind of perpetrator anything makes him deviate from his carefully- scripted plan , he could become extremely volatile .
CARSON: Well , it ai n't gon na happen . Not again
PRESIDENT: What the hell is the big crisis ?
CIA CHIEF: Which is a real possibility . Most of those old-fart Generals do n't want to -more- CIA CHIEF e part of the Summit any more than we want them to . They 're mad as hell he even talked to the Chinese .
PRESIDENT: I do n't want to deal with this right now ! Get our diplomats on it . Tell the North we 'll pay the ransom fo 'em Placate 'em ! And make damn sure we get that family back in one piece . Who 's in charge in L.A. ?
FBI CHIEF: The Bureau , Sir . We have a crack team in place .
CIA CHIEF: What about your man stationed at the Consulate Carson ? He was demoted from the FBI Hostage Program , couple years back . And this did happen on his watch
FBI CHIEF: There 's no way he could 've prevented this abduction ! Besides , I 've got one of my top Negotiators in charge
PRESIDENT: Whatever . I want a total news lackout and I want this over with , quickly ! Without giving those Commie little bastards any excuse to shit all over my Summit !
MIRANDA: Yes , please go ahead
CARSON: Shit no way we can set up a stake- out in -more- CARSON Four minutes . Call the Park Rangers at the Bowl . Have them clear the area of civilians .
DAVE: Our boy 's in a fuckin ' ice cream truck !
CARSON: Fuck ! Okay , stay back . It 's not like he 'll be hard to see in that truck . Which way 's he heading ?
MIRANDA: What happened ?
CARSON: Watch it ! We need him alive !
COLONEL LEE: Turn around !
CARSON: FBI . Call our office , they 'll take care of you .
BIKER: I 'm a taxpayer ! I 'm a goddamn dentist !
CARSON: Just do n't kill yourself , you piece of shit Carson fishes out his two-way .
MIRANDA: Love to be in the loop on this
CARSON: Not just now , dear
CARSON: He 's on foot , at the base of the elevator tower !
CARSON: Fingerprint it . He 's not gon na tell us where to find the hostages -more- CARSON Meaning we got exactly 80 minutes to figure it out for ourselves .
WALTHER: Figure it out ? ! With what ? !
CARSON: Miranda ! We need a copter , pronto ! Get back to his van . There were no plates , but check the VIN , look it over , then meet us at the Consulate .
WALTHER: They 're gon na search the whole city in a goddamn hour.. ? !
CARSON: Look , I do n't need you to tell me how fucked we are !
WALTHER: Fuck you ! ! Every time you 're on a case something explodes !
MIRANDA: Stop ! The clock 's running ! Arguing is a luxury we ca n't afford ! -more- MIRANDA What 's done is done . There 'll be plenty of time to point fingers later .
SABATINI: I need some fuckin ' ink ! !
AMBASSADOR HAN: This is impossible ! How can you even egin to find them ? Good question . All eyes go to Miranda .
MIRANDA: Well , the normal procedure is to negotiate with the perpetrator Her head is spinning . She looks at Carson .
CARSON: Let 's take stock . We 've got a picture of where he hid the family , and ecordings of his calls
MIRANDA: That 's right ! We can send them to our experts for analysis
CARSON: Same with his fingerprints . But that means we need high-quality image and data transmission . We can piss away ten minutes coptering this shit to our offices in Westwood , or we can use your surveillance equipment .
COLONEL LEE: There is no surveillance equipment . This is a diplomatic facility
CARSON: You want to play games , fine .
AMBASSADOR HAN: Take them upstairs .
CARSON: South Korean Consulate 's just down the street want to take a listen ? Colonel Lee pulls the phones away from him .
COLONEL LEE: Analog .
CARSON: You might want to drop a few bucks at Radio Shack and get with the decade . Dave get in here . Bring you computer , a city map , and the tapes of the ransom calls .
MIRANDA: Colonel , you saw the perp . Describe him to the Ambassador , see if it 's anyone he knows .
CARSON: This is Carson in L.A . There 's a set of prints coming over . Narrow the search criteria Male , thirties , Caucasian French , Belgian , Swiss , maybe Canadian . Try kidnappers and ombers first . We need an answer in fifteen minutes .
DAVE: He quit , couple weeks ago . Opened a ed and breakfast in Wyoming .
CARSON: Get those tapes transferred to a sound guy . We need ambient and ackground analysis , the whole enchilada .
DAVE: Enchilada you saying that because I 'm Mexican ?
CARSON: No 'cause you 're fat .
MIRANDA: Photo enhancement Is n't there some amazing tech with the LAPD
DAVE: Bronsky . Transferred to Seattle PD a month ago .
CARSON: Jesus H. Christ
SABATINI: I 'd send it to Langley . Let the CIA earn their keep .
CARSON: Do it .
MIRANDA: Given his behavior , this orange esidue I 'd say Desoxyn , 25 mg. Amphetamines .
CARSON: Any significance ?
MIRANDA: It 's consistent with the lone wolf scenario A handful of these is pure avery-in-a-bottle , 'til the psychosis and paranoia kick in . We could check pharmacy records , on the remote chance he got them legally if we had a couple of weeks , that is .
CARSON: Get the Bureau on it .
MIRANDA: Forget it . It 's a waste of manpower .
CARSON: Look , goddammit , you start skipping no-chance-in-hell leads , we can all quit and go to the beach right now .
MIRANDA: That gives him about fifty minutes to get to his location , move and secure the hostages , and activate his time bomb .
CARSON: He probably waited a while to pad the time he wanted us know the family was still alive So these crazy bastards would n't throw a premature shit hemorrhage , ut he did n't want to call too soon , either . I say they 're within 15 to 20 minutes , via surface streets , of where we last saw them .
MIRANDA: The most densely-populated part of the L.A. basin . This narrows it down to about 200,000 dwellings . A beat while this sinks in .
CARSON: Bet he doubled back .
MIRANDA: C'mon , that 's total conjecture
SABATINI: I 'd trust his instincts when dealing with maniacs . He is deeply disturbed .
MIRANDA: You 're telling me ?
PRESIDENT: Meaning ?
CIA CHIEF: They 're threatening to pull a Saddam Hussein remember the Scuds he lobbed at Jerusalem during Desert Storm ? They 're talking about firing a missile into Los Angeles
PRESIDENT: A goddamn WHAT ? ?
VICE PRESIDENT: Still , for their purposes it 's perfect Hit somewhere in L.A. , take out a city block or two
PRESIDENT: I do n't believe I 'm hearing this ! So if we know it 's coming , we can knock it out of the fuckin ' sky !
FBI CHIEF: We better inform the other leaders , stall on the Summit
PRESIDENT: There 's no reason to panic yet they ca n't launch until after the family 's confirmed dead !
CIA CHIEF: Afraid that 's not the case
FBI CHIEF: And if the family turns up okay , they 'll just make it self-destruct .
PRESIDENT: Shit ! I really do n't need this today !
VICE PRESIDENT: We 're forgetting one thing here the family . Intelligence is sure the North will abort their attack if Mrs. Han and her kids are safely returned ?
CIA CHIEF: Absolutely . Their whole game depends on claiming a legitimate provocation .
PRESIDENT: I 'd like to turn 'em into a adioactive parking lot .
ROBBINS: Phone company decal 's a fake . DMV says the van was purchased a week ago from a private party in Santa Monica . I called 'em ; they said the guy paid cash , and he fits our boy 's description . Signed the name `` Douglas McArthur '' to the Transfer of Title .
CARSON: Cute . He signed the name of the Allied Commander during the Korean War . Maybe he was a political .
MIRANDA: No . The phony ice cream truck , the ooby-trapped chairs he could 've -more- MIRANDA done it without half that stuff . But this was going to be the score of a lifetime he was showing off .
CARSON: Who 's got those kinds of skills Electronics , vehicle customizing , computers , explosives ?
DAVE: Military . Cop , maybe . Shit , you average high-school student if they 're so inclined . My guess is ou perp used off-the-shelf equipment for everything except the C-4 , and that 's only slightly harder to get than crack or heroin , if you know who to ask .
BOBBI: This is Bobbi Marchfelder , your Eye in the Sky back to you , Brent
CAMERAMAN: Nada . Total news blackout .
BOBBI: Go back over the hill .
NEWS PILOT: We got the valley traffic report in fifteen
BOBBI: `` Stalled vehicle ! One lane closed ! Sig alert.. ! '' I 'll improvise !
JOY: Why us ?
MRS. HAN: You heard him for money .
JOY: What if something goes wrong ?
MRS. HAN: It wo n't .
CARSON: I 'm going to the kidnapping site .
MIRANDA: I want to talk to the witnesses .
CARSON: Great , we 'll hire a bus .
DAVE: I know it 's privileged information , goddammit ! Lem me talk to a supervisor You are a supervisor Lem me talk to you goddamn supervisor I told you , I 'm with the FBI Cellular company says he was using a phone with a cloned number .
SABATINI: Big surprise . Have 'em send a list of the numbers called on the account .
DAVE: That 's what I 'm trying to get . They 're saying I need a subpoena . Do n't put me on hold Do n't I 'm listening to Michael fuckin ' Bolton !
SABATINI: Walther ! Get on the horn to Justice and deal with this !
ROBBINS: A lot of the components are made by the same manufacturer a ca security company .
YOUNG COP: Inspector ! Look at this `` Dragon 's Breath.. ? ''
CARSON: Twelve-gauge shell filled with magnesium and ignition powder . Shit 's worse than napalm Geneva Convention outlawed it for warfare .
MIRANDA: Then how did he get it ?
CARSON: Easy you can buy 'em mail order . Where 's the Consulate 's car ?
YOUNG COP: Uh apparently it was stolen
COLONEL LEE: Stolen ! ? What is it with you people
YOUNG COP: What 's this `` you people '' shit ?
CARSON: Shut up !
MIRANDA: He means all of us `` you people . ''
CARSON: Find it ! How many bulletproof Mercedes could be cruising around Crenshaw ?
YOUNG COP: You 'd be surprised
CARSON: I hate this fuckin ' town .
COLONEL LEE: And our car was stolen .
AMBASSADOR HAN: I felt safer when I was the Ambassador to Libya .
SABATINI: Image enhancements came back .
CARSON: We going steady ?
SABATINI: The sun position tells us the windows are facing northeast . Here 's the best look at the glass on the prints hanging in the ackground . There 's a reflection of a reflection , out on the street the corner of a billboard .
CARSON: Looks like the wheel of a car .
MIRANDA: We talked about these billboards , when we were car shopping ! Four- door they make a wagon , too . Something Japanese God , what was it ? Toyota Mazda Honda You thought it had no character .
CARSON: I thought that about all of them . C'mon , think , dammit ! !
MIRANDA: You think ! ! You were there , too !
CARSON: Call the outdoor advertising companies . Get the location of all the billboards for Japanese cars within our search parameters .
DAVE: Peerless Auto Security . We need to know whether you 've sold a large quantity of these components to any one customer , or whether you 'd had any stolen recently
OPERATIVE: Missile heading to L.A. has a Kipchak Warhead ! Repeat missile is Kipchak equipped ! It was switched by order of
MRS. HAN: He asked you if you had to go
JOY: Oh , my God The meters are hovering just below the red
PRESIDENT: So what the hell does `` Kipchak '' mean ?
CIA CHIEF: Seems the missile is armed with a warhead carrying the Pneumonic Plague . The President goes nuts .
PRESIDENT: The Black Plague ? ! Every time I talk to you fuckin ' guys it gets worse ! What happened to this `` limited etaliation '' shit ?
CIA CHIEF: We think one of the Hard-liners switched the warhead without the Premier 's knowledge . But he 's not about to take our word for it , and he 's too weak to risk the humiliation of backing down .
PRESIDENT: They use a biological weapon on American soil , they have to know we 'll respond !
CIA CHIEF: We could have 500,000 infected in a week , who knows how many after that .
PRESIDENT: I 'm gon na toast those fuckers ! Have the Summit leaders been warned ?
FBI CHIEF: Yes , sir no one 's landing in L.A. 'til we give the all-clear .
PRESIDENT: And you 're sure it 's safe if we can get 'em to destroy the missile in flight ?
CIA CHIEF: I suggest none of this go any further not even to the agents working to find the family . Word leaks out to a city of 12 million people there 's rocket full of the Plague coming at 'em , you 'll create a panic of biblical proportions .
CARSON: Say what ?
COLONEL LEE: Perhaps someone will decide it is foolish to incur the wrath of North Korea .
CARSON: Yeah , the U.S. is behind the whole thing . And we 're knocking our heads , trying to find your people , just fo show .
WALTHER: Carson
CARSON: Let 's grab a few beers , kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by . Then maybe we can have a war over it . I think that 's a great idea , seeing as how you fuckers have needed you clocks cleaned for fifty years now !
COLONEL LEE: Why wait until five ?
MIRANDA: Pete ! Christ , you 're self-indulgent ! There 's nothing but anger and cynicism left inside you , so they 're all you can express any more . No wonder everyone in the Bureau thinks you 're such a nutcase !
CARSON: Hey , I 'm not the only one with a rep around the office `` Dr. Knoll-It- All . ''
MIRANDA: You 've been dying to tell me that
CARSON: Miranda Shit .
ROBBINS: Yeah , Peerless Auto Security fine get your manager
INSTALLER #2: Jerry 's outta here !
INSTALLER #1: Some cop 's asking if we sold a bunch of Peerless parts .
INSTALLER #2: Talk to Javal !
INSTALLER #1: Javal 's off today .
INSTALLER #3: Dude 's off a lot .
CARSON: Everyone shut up ! Guy on vacation , the Canadian
ESPIONAGE AGENT: Inspector Carson , extension 666
CARSON: That 's appropriate In 30 seconds you 're gon na give me Paul Javal 's shoe size .
EDWARDS: Ambient background sound is normal city stuff , but there 's a distinct echo pattern . Your people are in o near a high-rise that 's at least eight floors tall . And there are other high-rises nearby .
CARSON: Okay high-rises in our search area . Eight stories or higher .
MIRANDA: Downtown , Century City , Westwood corridor , Museum Row , Mid- Wilshire North of Sunset Strip there 's a few
CARSON: Sabatini ! What about that billboard ?
SABATINI: Nothing yet ! Everyone 's left thei goddamn offices already !
CARSON: LAPD will have a record of all emergency vehicles running Code 3 at 9 32 AM . Get their starting point and their destination .
MIRANDA: And have them narrow their foot- searches to areas around high-rises .
CARSON: Where 's that fuckin ' address ? !
DAVE: I 'm still holdin ' !
SABATINI: Is n't that redundant ?
DAVE: Raised in Quebec . Moved to Europe ; served some short stretches , petty shit arrested for kidnapping , no conviction . Did four years in France for blowing bank vaults . Moved to U.S. last year . Clean since then .
CARSON: Get his Driver 's License number ; Social ; bank accounts ; charge cards ; club memberships find out what movies he rented . Get whoever 's closest to the Auto Shop to get in there , interview everybody .
MIRANDA: This sure was a ballsy move for a car-alarm installer .
CARSON: Hey , he watched the news Everyone knows the U.S. will do anything to avoid trouble with a mad-dog country .
MIRANDA: Ambassador
CARSON: Quit apologizing for me !
MIRANDA: Quit giving me reasons to !
AMBASSADOR HAN: On occasion , my wife has been known to kick my ankle under the table .
CARSON: Sounds like her aim 's a little low .
DAVE: Address , according to the Auto Shop .
CARSON: Apartment 1060 ! He 's in a high-rise ! Sabatini you 're with us . She 's got the field experience .
MIRANDA: There still could be accomplices . If there are , they 'll hear us in the helicopter . Carson looks again at the address
CARSON: There 's a TV station a couple blocks away . We 'll land on their pad . K-EYE . Clear it with 'em . Have a SWAT team assemble , but tell 'em to hang back unless we need 'em .
MIRANDA: Traffic person .
BOBBI: Where are you going ?
CARSON: We ca n't get into that right now
BOBBI: Hey , you expect to use my station 's facilities and not even tell us
MIRANDA: Sorry
BOBBI: What the fuck are you , the Barbie Corporate Ass-Lick model ?
MIRANDA: Guess what , Sister you 're about to spend the next five years in a penitentiary for interfering with a federal investigation .
STATION MANAGER: Bobbi ! I promised we 'd respect thei news blackout !
BOBBI: Figures you dickless wonder .
STATION MANAGER: I get an exclusive later , right ?
CARSON: This works out , I 'll play the fuckin ' banjo for you .
SABATINI: 'She 's got the field experience ' To park the fuckin ' car !
CARSON: Whoa FBI.. ! They lower their weapons .
WOMAN: What the fuck.. !
MIRANDA: Sorry
CARSON: Wait here .
MIRANDA: I like what you 've done with the place
COLONEL LEE: Wait ! Colonel Lee walks over to Sabatini .
SABATINI: Where 's Carson ?
COLONEL LEE: Inside .
CARSON: NO !
MIRANDA: Stop it ! Miranda and SWAT Team # 2 pull them apart .
CARSON: Get out of my sight .
BOBBI: Marchfelder .
CARSON: What 's the status ?
MIRANDA: Pete
CARSON: `` Should 've . '' Shit , there 's a familiar word . That day I was there soon enough . We should 've rushed 'em , before they could finish setting up
MIRANDA: The Bureau never would 've let you . They want it by the book talk them out .
CARSON: Twelve bodies only the hostages .
MIRANDA: You were a greenhorn . It was n't you decision . You ca n't keep living as such a raw nerve , never sleeping
CARSON: Those kids were ten years old ! Same age as the Han boy He turns away . She takes his hand .
MIRANDA: Camry ! The billboard ! Toyota Camry ! Where are the numbers for the outdoor ad companies ?
ROBBINS: Parker Center 's making those calls .
BOBBI: Turn the fuckin ' camera on ! DO IT ! !
CAMERAMAN: Maybe it 's true probably is true . That 's why they got a news blackout !
BOBBI: I 'll rip your miserable eyeballs out ! NEWS IS OUR FUCKIN ' JOB ! ! He sighs and turns the CAMERA on .
DAVE: Finally got the call list from Javal 's phone . Most are n't his ; they 're from the legit user who did n't know his number was cloned .
CARSON: Go to the bottom of the list , work ack through the last 12 hours . Dave jumps to the bottom , points at a number .
DAVE: Here 's the call to the Consulate
CARSON: Wait go back the one at seven this morning Dave highlights a number 213-965-5666 .
CARSON: Get down !
MIRANDA: Go.. !
CARSON: Get the fuck out of here !
MIRANDA: Shut up and keep your eyes on the oad . That 's my goddamn car . Dave ? You staying on top of the esearch ?
DAVE: I ca n't My kids
BOBBI: Do n't lose the Benz , moron pull ack show the other copters around us this is fuckin ' great
CARSON: The Colonel hired Javal , made it look like he was working alone . Then he made sure Javal got killed , so we 'd never find your family and they 'd have an excuse to drop thei omb . But what 's in it for 'em ?
AMBASSADOR HAN: There are men in my government whose power depends on North Korea staying as it is Socialist , repressive , isolated from the world . They 'll esort to anything , even war , to keep it that way . They have the Hitler Syndrome if their country can not exist the way they want it , they would rather see it destroyed .
CARSON: Negative his car 's armored ! And we need the bastard alive ! !
VREELAND: Shit ! Pull back !
BOBBI: Jesus fuckin ' God ! ! ! Uh , I think we 're gon na set down now . Back to you , Brent .
VREELAND: Out of the air , or retreat 7,000 meters from target vehicle !
JOY: I always hated that guy
CARSON: One of yours ? What the hell do you need heat- seeking rockets for in L.A. ?
AMBASSADOR HAN: There could be another riot
CARSON: And they call me Mr. Overkill . Dave , what do you know about He looks at Han .
AMBASSADOR HAN: Strela-2
CARSON: Strela-2 anti-aircraft rockets ?
DAVE: I 'm with ya Strela-2 . Perenosniy zenitniy raketniy kompleks . Russian factory index 9K-32-M2
MIRANDA: Stay back . LAPD 's putting up a oadblock .
BOBBI: Save it for someone who gives a shit !
CARSON: That Kraut-mobile have any weaknesses you 'd like to tell me about ?
AMBASSADOR HAN: I do n't think so they said it was solid as a rock .
CARSON: No shit
AMBASSADOR HAN: I ca n't believe I 'm still alive
CARSON: This were a Hyundai you would n't be .
BOBBI: Get this fuckin ' thing in the air ! Out ! Not enough room for four .
CAMERAMAN: What am I supposed to do when the plague comes , hold my breath ?
MIRANDA: Switch to a secure channel . What on earth are you thinking ?
CARSON: You ? ! I wanted a police copter !
PILOT: Just tell me what to do . I flew two tours in 'Nam .
BOBBI: And he does n't go unless I go !
CARSON: Wrong-o
CARSON: Got 'im looks like he 's headed for the 101 .
MIRANDA: You fucking lunatic ! !
PILOT: Hope you got more flares than he 's got rockets .
MIRANDA: Sorry
CARSON: Well , what the hell were you doing out there ?
MIRANDA: Even if we can pry him out with Twelve minutes to go , I doubt he 'll e very cooperative .
CARSON: I 'll just use my outstanding people skills .
MIRANDA: Ever hear of `` fuck-me '' pumps ? Well , these are fuck you pumps ! Where 's the family ?
DAVE: Holy shit Knoll-It-All 's turned into Dirty Harriet !
AMBASSADOR HAN: Let him up .
COLONEL LEE: Victory !
CARSON: Dave
DAVE: Take a hint . We 're screwed .
CARSON: Have the Manager evacuate the complex . Find out which unit the family 's in , but do n't let anyone go in 'til we get there .
DAVE: Private security 's going around with PA 's , and they set off the fire alarm . Well , try callin ' him again ! Manager 's gone , and the Assistant ca n't find the key to get to the ental manifest . Then kick the fuckin ' door down !
MILTON: I 'll try him in his car again During this , outside
CARSON: `` Fuck-you '' pumps ? ?
JOY: They must know we 're here
ALL: Help ! No answer .
JOY: Mother Sam
MRS. HAN: Do it .
MILTON: It 's a brown binder Says `` Rental Manifest . '' You ca n't miss it They literally tear the office apart .
CARSON: Apartment number would be real helpful , gang
MIRANDA: There !
CARSON: Okay work with me here !
LISA: Hurry , please hurry
CARSON: DO N'T !
MRS. HAN: Ca n't you disarm the bomb ?
CARSON: Too risky . Let 's concentrate on getting you out of here .
MRS. HAN: Sam covered them with chewing gum .
SAM: High-tech problem , low-tech solution .
CARSON: Pressure sensors . Use 'em in convertibles Bad guy sits on you seat , he sets the alarm off . These are rigged backwards get up , you set 'em off .
SAM: You a bomb expert ?
CARSON: Nope . But I 've had some car alarms in my day . For all the goddamn good they do
CARSON: You 'll be over in five seconds
CARSON: Release the cable from your side ! Get out of here !
MIRANDA: Come over the railing ! Grab onto the harness !
PILOT: It 'll pop the winch buckle !
MIRANDA: Try it anyway !
CARSON: I 'll call you next week .
MIRANDA: Who was that on the phone ?
CARSON: The Bureau . They want me back on the hostage team .
MIRANDA: What did you say ?
CARSON: Told 'em I 'd sleep on it
MIRANDA: Working with you today was certainly interesting , Inspector .
CARSON: It 's my outstanding people skills .
MIRANDA: I hate this fucking town
HU LI: Someone better call the police .
CARTER: Deng wa lu yun cai-shen wu .
LEE: wish they all could be California wish they all could be California girls
CARTER: I warned you about playing that shit when I 'm in the car .
LEE: That was my CD . Do n't you ever touch a Chinese man 's CD .
CARTER: Did you see the way those girls drove off ? I did you a favor .
LEE: Those girls drove off because of you .
CARTER: All I did was invite them for a drink .
LEE: You invited them to get naked and sacrifice a small goat .
CARTER: I said that ? Which word was `` goat ? '' Lee picks up his CD case .
LEE: You owe me a copy of the Beach Boys Greatest Hits , Volume Two .
CARTER: Do n't be giving me attitude , Lee . I 've een here three days and we have n't done shit . We have n't been to a club , have n't even talked to a girl . I 'm on vacation , and I want some mu-shu .
LEE: Mu-shu ? You 're hungry ?
CARTER: Not Mu-shu . Mu-shu . I want to see some women . Now stop playing dumb and show me the shu !
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: Lee , there was a bombing at the American Embassy . Two American translators were killed .
LEE: Any leads ?
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: We think it 's Ricky Tan . If you do n't want to take the case , I 'll understand .
LEE: It 's my responsibility . Lee hangs up the cell phone .
CARTER: What was that ? Did you just pick up a case ? Did we just take another damn case on my vacation ? Lee smiles at Carter .
LEE: Of course not . My Superindendent invited us to a club tonight . Big party .
CARTER: Do n't be messing with me , Lee . I will kick your ass . I 'll hit you so hard you 'll end up in the Ming Dynasty .
LEE: Carter , would I lie to you ?
CARTER: That 's what I 'm talking about . A real Hong Kong night club . You want an Altoid ?
LEE: No .
CARTER: You better take one . Your breath has een a little funky all day . Let me look at you . Carter looks at Lee . Fixes his collar .
LEE: No .
CARTER: Take this . It 's a Magnum . You can fold it in half . Carter dances through the door , Lee follows .
LEE: I 'll meet you at the bar in ten minutes . They do n't like tourists in here , so try to blend in .
CARTER: Blend in ? I 'm two feet taller than everyone here . Where you going ?
LEE: Bathroom .
CARTER: How you boys doing tonight ?
LEE: Carter , get off that stage !
CARTER: Are you kidding , they love me . I 'm a star , Lee . A god to these people !
LEE: This is a gangster bar , we 're here undercover .
CARTER: I knew you were lying .
LEE: I 'm sorry .
CARTER: Damn it , why are you ruining my night ? I 'm just starting to have fun . Well fine then , go ahead , pull you adge and do your thing .
LEE: No , we 're here for information , to find out where a man named Ricky Tan is . We must tread softly and keep our ears open .
CARTER: Tread softly ? Who taught you how to oost a bar ?
LEE: Carter , you do n't understand . These men are Fu-Cang-Long Triads . Part of the most deadly gang in China .
CARTER: Man , are you crazy ? You think that scares me ? I 'm from L.A. We invented gangs . We were having gang wars before anybody even thought about it . We get oyalties from other gangs . Now gim me your badge and gun and I 'll show you how it 's done .
LEE: No . You are a civilian . In China , I am Michael Jackson , and you are Toto .
CARTER: You mean Tito . We had Toto for dinne last night .
LEE: You just said you 're their worst nightmare - and to line their mothers up for a milking .
CARTER: Shit . C'mon , get up here and help me out .
LEE: Try to land on your feet .
CARTER: I ca n't believe I flew ten-thousand miles for this shit . The POLE BREAKS
LEE: I 'm sorry .
CARTER: You 're sorry . I got somebody 's old chopsticks stuck in my ass , so do n't tell me you 're sorry . Just take me home .
LEE: No time . There was an explosion at the American Embassy today two American translators were killed .
CARTER: So that Ricky Tan , he 's the one who blew up the Embassy ?
LEE: This wo n't take long .
MASTER FU: Dragon kick !
LEE: Yes , Master .
CARTER: I was watching you kids . My name is Carter , LAPD , and I 'm a third degree lack belt . At least that 's what I tell the girls at the Holiday Health Spa where I work out .
LEE: I need your help , Master . I 'm seeking a man who used to train with you . He 's ecome a killer - the worst kind of animal .
MASTER FU: Animals kill only from hunger or fear . The man you seek is lower than a serpent . he kills for money .
LEE: Ricky Tan ?
MASTER FU: No . Your father . Your father and Ricky Tan were my favorite students and for such awful things to happen as they did
LEE: How do I find Ricky Tan ?
MASTER FU: A seeding spends its entire life eaching towards Heaven .
LEE: I know , Master , but
MASTER FU: The answers you seek can be found in Heaven on Earth .
LEE: Heaven on Earth ? Master , I do n't understand . A temple , where Heaven is on Earth ? A mountain , where Earth reaches for the
MASTER FU: It 's a massage parlor downtown . `` Heaven on Earth . '' You will find your answers there .
CARTER: And that 's how you use the LAPD choke hold . Now start practicing and do n't make me come back here !
LEE: Carteryou ready to have some fun ! ?
CARTER: I am a tourist .
HOSTESS: Good afternoon , gentlemen . Lee bows , followed by Carter .
LEE: Hello .
CARTER: How you doin ' ?
LEE: My friend is on vacation , from America . I want to show him a good time .
HOSTESS: Oh , you American ?
CARTER: That 's right .
HOSTESS: You bring American money ?
CARTER: Never leave home without it . Lee , this one 's on me . You save you money .
HOSTESS: You get massage from Chinese girl efore ?
CARTER: No . It 's my first time .
HOSTESS: You pick any girl for you and you friend . Carter looks like a kid in a candy store .
CARTER: Any girl ? Okay . Let 's start with that one .
HOSTESS: Oh yes , she 's very nice .
CARTER: She is nice . But I am very tense . I 'm gon na need a lot of massages . I 'll take that one , too . How you doin ' , baby ? Andthat one in pink . She can do my feet . Lee elbows Carter .
LEE: What are you doing ?
CARTER: She said I could pick any girl I want .
LEE: Well , hurry up .
CARTER: Hey ! You do n't break in front of a lack man in a buffet line .
HOSTESS: Your friend have big appetite . Please put these on and wait upstairs in the quiet room .
CARTER: Now I 'm on vacation . I knew you 'd come through , Lee .
LEE: Over there that 's Ricky Tan .
CARTER: That 's Ricky Tan ? He 's four feet tall . I 'll go over with you right now , shake him down .
LEE: This is a very dangerous man .
CARTER: I 'm a dangerous man . You 're not gon na uin my massage because of some midget in a house coat .
LEE: I 'm calling for back up ! Lee gets up from a chair , hurriedly exits .
CARTER: Ricky Tan , I 've been looking all ove for you . Get up . Tan looks up for a moment , a smile .
RICKY TAN: I 'm busy at the moment .
CARTER: I said get on your feet !
RICKY TAN: I know you , Detective Carter , right ? You 're Lee 's American friend . Enjoying your visit ?
CARTER: I 'm Lee 's new muscle , his right arm and do n't let the robe fool you . This is the only color they had left . Now get up !
RICKY TAN: Lee , I 've missed you , brother . I heard about the two Americans , I 'm so sorry , you must be under great pressure .
LEE: You must come with me for questioning .
CARTER: Let 's go . I 've got girls and chicken and hot oil waiting for me .
RICKY TAN: I do n't think so
CARTER: I 'd like to pay you for that laptop .
RICKY TAN: It 's no problem . But I must excuse myself , inspector .
CARTER: That 's Chief Inspector , he got promoted . Tan bows to Lee and Carter .
RICKY TAN: Congratulations . And good day .
CARTER: Damn ! No wonder you 're pissed off .
LEE: Do n't look at my ass !
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: This is still Hong Kong .
LEE: Where are you going ?
CARTER: Back to Heaven on Earth . I need my damn passport back . I 'm going home .
LEE: Fine . Go home . Who needs you .
CARTER: Why you mad at me ? You needed back-up , so I backed you up . I was about to take out Ricky Tan and those bodyguards .
LEE: Stop ! I 'm sick of your bullshit !
CARTER: My bullshit ? I 'm not the one who goes to a karaoke bar filled with gangsters ! I 'm not the one who goes to massage parlors to bust crime lords !
LEE: It 's my job !
CARTER: You 're pathetic , man . When 's the last time you had some fun ? When 's the last time you took a night off , had a date ?
LEE: I have plenty of dates .
CARTER: Really ? When 's the last time you had some Mu-shu Let 's hear it , Lee , when was it ? Year of the rat ?
LEE: You would never understand my life . You 're not Chinese .
CARTER: And you ai n't black !
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: Lee , this is Special Agent Sterling from the United States Secret Service .
LEE: The Secret Service ? Why ?
STERLING: What I 'm about to tell you can not leave this room . The men who were killed yesterday were not American translators . They were undercover U.S. customs agents trying to break a Triad smuggling ring . We do n't know what they 're transporting out of Hong Kong , but whatever it is , it got the agents killed .
LEE: How can we help ?
STERLING: Stay the hell out of our way .
LEE: I can get to Ricky Tan .
STERLING: We know all about Tan . That 's why we 're leaving him out there as bait . We think this is a lot bigger than just Ricky Tan and his Fu-Cang-Long Triads .
CARTER: Captain , you 're gon na have to speak up . I 'm on a car phone !
CAPTAIN DIEL: Is it true , Carter ? Are you in Hong Kong right now ?
CARTER: Hong Kong ? I 'm not in Hong Kong . I 'm in Hollywood right at Sunset and Vine , two minutes from the station . How about I pick you up right now and take you to dinner ?
CAPTAIN DIEL: It 's nine-thirty in the morning .
CARTER: Did I say dinner ? I meant diner . Biscuits and gravy , you love that shit .
CAPTAIN DIEL: Do you know what happened yesterday , Carter ? I was officially nominated fo the Commissioner 's post for the LAPD . There was a dinner last night , two hundred LAPD officers were there .
CARTER: Two hundred cops ? Was Mario Sanchez there ? He owes me money .
CAPTAIN DIEL: I 've waited my whole life for this job , ut I do n't have a shot in hell of getting it . Do you know why ?
CARTER: Is it because of the hookers , sir ? You tell them there 's no crime in being lonely .
CAPTAIN DIEL: No , Carter . The reason I 'm screwed is ecause the entire department is about to find out the stolen credit cards we impounded were used to buy two first class upgrades to Hong Kong . And what the hell is Heaven on Earth ?
CARTER: Sir , I 'm working on a big case over here and by the time I get back they 're gon na make you Governor . Captain , you there ? Hello ? Shit !
LEE: Carter ! CARTER !
CARTER: How you doing ? I 'm looking for Heaven on Earth .
MAN: You wish to spank my sister with a ping pong paddle ?
CARTER: No man , I was just asking
MAN: Wait here . I 'll go see if she 's awake .
LEE: All he wanted was some mu-shu .
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: Are you okay , Lee ? Beat .
LEE: I 'm sorry , I have to go .
CARTER: I 'm gon na solve this case myself . Taxi !
CAB DRIVER: Now you speak my language .
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: Lee , we just got a call from the harbo patrol . Ricky Tan is throwing a little party on his boat tonight . Victoria harbor . If you do n't want to
LEE: Did you tell Sterling ?
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: Let him find out on his own . I want the Hong Kong police handling this .
LEE: Thank you .
CARTER: Stay here . I 'll be right back . You understand ?
CAB DRIVER: Yes . I understand .
DOORMAN #1: Invitation , please .
CARTER: I 'm with the band . I 'm the lead singer .
DOORMAN #1: The band has been playing over an hour .
CARTER: I got held up at a wedding in Tai Koo . Ricky here yet , I need to get his equests . As Carter walks past the doorman
DOORMAN #1: Wait .
CARTER: Last party all he wanted was Sting not one person danced . Tonight I 'm doing Superfreak , I do n't care what he says . Where is he ?
DOORMAN #1: Mr. Tan is not to be disturbed by the help .
CARTER: Help ? I 'm not the help , man I 'm the star . That 's my band up there I control the mood , the groove , the atmosphere . Carter cuts a smoking DANCE MOVE .
ISABELLA: Isabella Molina , from San Juan . That seat is taken .
CARTER: San Juan ! You must know my good friend Pedro Martinez Hernandez Hecto Elizondo .
ISABELLA: I do n't think so .
CARTER: I 'm sorry , you looked like you traveled in the best circles . But hey , I understand . Make yourself at home , Isabella . Champagne , caviar , whateve you want . My ship is your ship .
ISABELLA: This is your ship ?
CARTER: That 's right . I 'm the owner , the Captain you can call me El Capitan .
ISABELLA: El Capitan ?
CARTER: I do n't want to play games with you , Isabella . I like you . I can see myself with you in one of those bathrooms over there in about five minutes .
ISABELLA: Well , I 'm very tempted . It 's such a eautiful yacht . What 's it called ?
CARTER: Called ? What 's my ship called ? Wellit 's called the S.S. Minnow Johnson .
ISABELLA: The S.S. Minow Johnson . Funny , the name on the back was `` Red Dragon . ''
CARTER: Red Dragon ? You sure about that ?
ISABELLA: I 'm sure , because this is my friend 's yacht . And it 's his party .
CARTER: Your friend 's ship ? Oh , man . I must 've walked onto the wrong yacht . I knew there was a reason my keys did n't work .
STEVEN REIGN: Who 's your friend ?
ISABELLA: Somebody who got on the wrong yacht .
CARTER: Wait a second . You 're Steven Reign ? You 're big time . You own all them big hotels . What are you doing in Hong Kong ?
STEVEN REIGN: I 'm just in town for the weekend , taking in the sights .
ISABELLA: Enjoy the party , Mr. Carter .
LEE: Ricky Tan . Where is he ?
BODYGUARD #1: Who 's asking ?
LEE: The Hong Kong Police . He killed a detective today and he 's not getting away with it . Now where is he ?
CARTER: Yeah . Tell us ! And do n't play games o we 'll kick your lying ass !
LEE: Carter ?
CARTER: Who died ?
LEE: You .
CARTER: Detective Yu ? Never met him .
LEE: Not Yu . You !
CARTER: Who ?
LEE: Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth ?
CARTER: Nobody understands the words that are coming out of your mouth .
BODYGUARD #1: Get your hands in the air .
RICKY TAN: Come on , Shaq , hit a damn free-throw ! You can do it , big guy .
CARTER: I ai n't his partner , I 'm a tourist . I got proof . See , I got a mini-bar key .
LEE: I 'll meet you on the main deck in ten minutes . Carter pulls Lee aside .
CARTER: What , leave you alone so he can cap you ?
LEE: I 'm okay , you go .
CARTER: Why the hell should you believe him ? He had us beat up . Naked . That 's nasty shit .
LEE: Remember I told you my father was a policeman ? Ricky Tan was his partner for ten years .
CARTER: What the hell is going on here ?
RICKY TAN: Despite what people suspectwhat you suspect
LEE: Do n't .
RICKY TAN: if your father were alive , I would e turning to him now . I did n't blow up the American Embassy , ut I believe some of my people did . My enemies are trying to frame me . There is a war going on within the Triads and I am going to lose . My name has been written into the book of death .
LEE: The police can protect you .
RICKY TAN: Nobody can protect me . I 'll make a deal with you , Lee . But only iff you 'll get me out of Hong Kong .
LEE: Tell me why they killed the customs agents .
RICKY TAN: There is a ship , in the Hong Kong Harbor
CARTER: All right , get your hands up .
LEE: Hu Li !
CARTER: What `` revenge '' is he talking about ?
SUPERINDENDENT CHIN: I 'm sorry Lee , but my orders are to fully cooperate with the Secret Service .
LEE: I 'll take him .
CARTER: Hell no .
LEE: Do n't push me , Carter . I 'm in no mood for your bullshit .
CARTER: What are you gon na do about it , grasshopper ?
LEE: I 'll bitch slap you into Bangkok .
CARTER: Give me your best shot , you flat assed mama 's boy .
LEE: Do n't be talking about my mama . Or my ass !
CARTER: I heard your mama pulls a rickshaw .
LEE: No . She 's a school teacher .
CARTER: You 're not very good at this , are you ?
LEE: Good at what ?
CARTER: Forget it . A long beat while Lee considers what to say .
LEE: Five years ago , my father was Chief Inspector working a big international smuggling case .
CARTER: Ask me if I give a shit . Lee waits a beat , then drops the bombshell .
LEE: Ricky Tan killed my father .
CARTER: How the hell did Tan get away with it ?
LEE: All the evidence against him disappeared , the smuggling case was unsolved . Tan resigned and went over to the Triads openly .
CARTER: This is about your Daddy 's death ? Hell , Lee , you know my father died on the job . You could have told me This is about more than all that , is n't it ? This is about your Daddy 's last case , right ? Lee 's caught , fibs badly .
LEE: No , no , that would be crazy
CARTER: You thought the `` Customs Agents get lown up '' and `` smuggling '' and `` Ricky Tan '' and you put it all together and came up with a five year old case . That 's why you did n't tell me what we were doing
LEE: I thought you 'd think it was crazy .
CARTER: IT IS CRAZY !
LEE: I know . I know . I am sorry .
CARTER: So are you getting on the plane or not ? !
LEE: What ?
CARTER: Come on , we still got time to order the Kosher meal . Always get the koshe meal , they bring it first .
LEE: I can not go to LA
CARTER: It sounds impossible
LEE: You said
CARTER: but if somebody gave me the chance to square up my father 's death , I 'd go to hell to do it .
LEE: Why LA ?
CARTER: I guess you 're going to have to trust me on this one .
LEE: I should go back . Ricky Tan mentioned a oat in Hong Kong Harbor
CARTER: Lee , let me introduce you to the Carte Theory of Criminal Investigation Follow the Rich White Man .
LEE: Follow the Rich White Man ?
CARTER: Almost , but you 've got to say `` Rich White Man '' all run together like it 's one word .
LEE: Follow the RichWhiteMan
CARTER: Not bad . Now every crime , somewhere , has a rich white man taking his cut . Every single one . Now in our case , we know the rich white man is Steven Reign .
LEE: Who ?
CARTER: Big hotel billionaire . He was on Ricky Tan 's boat ordering Hu Li around just efore Ricky got smoked .
LEE: How do you know he 's our man ?
CARTER: Because when the shooting started he was way too cool . See most white people , when there 's shooting , they either hide in a toilet or start screaming high pitched like `` Aaaahhh ! ! ! Aaaahh ! ! ! !
LEE: You sound like that all the time .
CARTER: Black people keep their cool when the shit goes down .
LEE: Maybe . But not like Asians . We neve panic .
CARTER: Yeah , what about when Godzilla was coming ? You people were screaming you asses off .
LEE: Just tell me where I can find this Steven Reign .
CARTER: The same place you find all RichWhiteMen . Gefilte Fish . Lox and bagel . I love this stuff . Here , try it with a smear .
LEE: He just left . Kissed her on the cheek .
CARTER: He 'll be back soon .
LEE: How do you know ?
CARTER: Look at her . Now , wake me in an hour , I 'll take over .
LEE: Carter , there 's something I have to tell you . You were right about what you said in Hong Kong . All I do is work . Neve take a day off . It 's all I have right now .
CARTER: Hey , I did n't mean to call you pathetic .
LEE: The truth is , I have n't had any mu-shu in six months .
CARTER: You pull a muscle or something ?
LEE: My fiancee left me over the summer a month before our wedding .
CARTER: I 'm sorry , Lee . Why did she leave you ?
LEE: It 's a long story .
CARTER: Let me guess , she could n't handle the cop thing never knowing if you were dead or alive . I 've seen it a million times .
LEE: No . It was my singing .
CARTER: Excuse me ?
LEE: She hated my voice . Said it drove he crazy . I sang to her all the time - in ed - in the shower - I thought she liked it . She finally told me it was driving her crazy . Carter stares at Lee for a long BEAT .
CARTER: Lee , maybe it 's best if we do n't discuss our personal lives . Let 's die curious .
LEE: She 's just standing around not doing much .
CARTER: Just do n't fall asleep . Sooner or late something 's gon na happen .
LEE: I 'll try to stay awake . It 's so boring .
CARTER: What did you say ?
LEE: Nothing . I said nothing .
CARTER: Hot ? I 'm freezing my ass off .
LEE: I 'm gon na go in the hall and get a ucket of ice . You want some ice ?
CARTER: What 's going on ? Lee stares at Carter , looks dazed .
LEE: She 's getting undressed .
CARTER: Gim me the binoculars .
LEE: No . It 's not right .
CARTER: Gim me the binoculars or I will shoot you .
LEE: What 's she doing ?
CARTER: Oh , sweet glory hallelujah
LEE: I do n't want to hear this .
CARTER: Skirt just came off . She 's in black bra and panties Victoria Secret Spring Catalogue , page 27 wait a sec - there 's a tattoo on her left thigh it looks like Snoopy .
LEE: Snoopy ? I love Snoopy .
CARTER: She just took her hair down . Now she 's going for the bra the clasp is in front she 's using both hands . You better get that ice .
LEE: That 's enough . We should n't be doing this !
CARTER: This is our job . We took an oath as police officers . If we do n't do this , who will ? Firemen ?
LEE: What ?
CARTER: She 's reaching into her panties something is strapped to her leg . Oh , Godplease do n't let it be a dick .
LEE: What is it ?
CARTER: No , I do n't believe this shit it 's a microphone . Lee , she 's wired
LEE: I do n't understand ?
CARTER: She 's walking back towards the door .
LEE: GET DOWN ! !
CARTER: Pick it up !
LEE: It 's your turn !
CARTER: I do n't need a turn !
LEE: Throw it !
HOTEL GUESTS: Do you want us to hold the elevator ?
CARTER: Get the hell away from here !
LEE: Stairs !
CARTER: Get out of the building !
LEE: Roof !
CARTER: There 's people up here !
LEE: Get it out of here !
CARTER: Take it !
ISABELLA: Get on your feet .
CARTER: I would n't do that ! ! !
LEE: It 's a bomb .
ISABELLA: You see , no bomb . Now stay away before I throw you both in jail fo obstruction .
CARTER: Throw us in jail ? I 'm about to bust you ight now .
ISABELLA: I 'm an undercover agent for the United States Secret Service .
CARTER: How do we know you 're not lying ? Let me see your badge .
LEE: We can help you . I 'm a detective in Hong Kong .
ISABELLA: I know who you are , Inspector Lee .
LEE: Then you know I 'm not walking away from this case .
CARTER: Yeah , that 's right .
ISABELLA: We need to get out of sight . Come down to my suite .
CARTER: So what 's your story ?
ISABELLA: They think I 'm a crooked customs agent .
LEE: Is this a payoff ?
ISABELLA: No . It 's a sample . You guys ever heard of the Superbill ?
CARTER: It 's a myth . Some kind of counterfeit .
ISABELLA: It 's much more than a counterfeit . 14 out of 15 world banks ca n't tell the difference . The paper is Crane linen lend and the bills are printed on U.S. Intaglio presses .
CARTER: How 're they getting into the U.S. Mint to use the presses ?
ISABELLA: In 1959 , the United States was very friendly with the Shah of Iran . We wanted his oil , so for the Shah 's irthday , the government gave him a gift a U.S. Treasury Intaglio press . The only one to ever leave the country . Five years ago Ricky Tan bought that press on the black market .
LEE: Five years ago ? ! That 's right before he left the force . Lee and Carter exchange looks .
ISABELLA: It was n't hard to spot the fakes until this past year . Then Tan got hold of one of a kind Swiss made hundred dolla plates and started making superbills .
LEE: And Hu Li killed him for the plates .
ISABELLA: Yes . They 've printed and shipped one hundred million dollars , and there 's only one way to spot a fake .
CARTER: What the hell are they going to do with a hundred million dollars in funny money ?
ISABELLA: The real question is , where are the plates ? If we can find the plates , we can stop the whole operation . Isabella thinks for a beat .
CARTER: Secret Service Agent Carter . This is my calling , Lee . Give me six months and I 'll be in Washington protecting a white guy .
LEE: We both know you would never take a ullet for someone else .
CARTER: They do n't know that . What are they gon na do , try and shoot the President during the interview ? I 'll bet Isabella can pull some strings . You saw the way she was staring at me .
LEE: She never even looked at you .
CARTER: You 're just jealous 'cos the girl picked me . I 'm tall , dark and handsome , you 're third world ugly .
LEE: I am not third world ugly . Women like me , they think I 'm cute . Like Snoopy .
CARTER: Snoopy is about six inches taller than you . I 'm sorry , Lee , you never had a chance .
KENNY: Come with me .
CARTER: What ? ? Where 'd you hear that ?
KENNY: I got my sources .
CARTER: And I got mine , meaning you . Nice how that works out . I 'm serious this time , I 'm closing this place down .
KENNY: James , you see my kids back there ? You know how much I 'm paying for private school ? How can you come in here with this attitude , you being little Chang 's godfather ?
CARTER: Little Chang is gon na have to go visit his daddy in jail if you do n't cooperate .
KENNY: Jail ! ? James , you better back off . Badge or no badge , I 'll kick your ass .
CARTER: I 'd like to see you try .
KENNY: We 're on , then .
LEE: That 's a good Twisting Tiger where did you learn that ? They switch to Chinese .
KENNY: Master Ching taught me .
LEE: The Praying Mantis school , in Bejing ?
KENNY: No . Freddy Ching 's , in Crenshaw .
LEE: Baby Duck ?
KENNY: That 's what we all used to call him when he was a kid cause he was always quacking . Never shut up .
CARTER: I heard that . Lee and Kenny laugh .
KENNY: Is this about the funny money ?
CARTER: How 'd you know ?
KENNY: You 've been asking loud questions in all the wrong places all morning . How come you always save me for last , James ? When are you gon na learn . Shit do n't happen I do n't know about .
CARTER: So tell me what you know .
KENNY: I know Teddy Wu is cranking out a pretty good double sawbuck but you knew that too , did n't you ?
CARTER: Yeah . We already been there . This is ig , Kenny . Benjamins . Secret Service calls 'em superbills . Banks ca n't even tell the difference . Kenny considers this for a moment .
KENNY: One of my regulars lost fifty thousand dollars at the table here last week . I was about to send my boys down to tune his ass up , when the guy comes in and pays off the whole thing . Including the vig brand new sequential hundred dollar bills . I knew something was wrong . Cause this guy 's got a regula job , no way he comes up with fifty grand in cash . But I tested the bills , infrared . The whole thing . And they checked out .
LEE: Do you still have the bills ?
KENNY: I still have my lunch money from third grade .
CARTER: Lem me see 'em .
KENNY: See . It 's perfect .
CARTER: All right , Kenny . Thanks . You 're off the hook . For now . Carter and Lee move for the door .
KENNY: You sure you guys do n't want to stay and have a bite ? My wife 's got the best mu shu this side of Compton . Carter and Lee exchange a look as we CUT TO
CARTER: We 're looking for a guy named Zing . Is he here ?
CARTER: I hope you just said I have no business eing here , 'cos I was just leaving .
ISABELLA: Hu Li , I think there 's someone who will want to talk to them first .
CARTER: oh , that 's a filling right there . That 's gon na cost you .
HU LI: Put them in the truck .
CARTER: I should kill you right now , but I 'm gon na let you live , 'cause you 're fine , and maybe you can be reformed .
LEE: Are you okay ?
CARTER: What 's the first thing I told you never trust nobody . How could you fall for that shit ? I knew she was dirty .
LEE: She saved our lives .
CARTER: For how long ? Face it , Lee , she 's playing both sides . Lee looks disappointed .
LEE: Shhh , my head hurts .
CARTER: I 'm about to be killed and you `` Shhh '' me ! This was n't my case , Lee . Ricky Tan did n't kill my father , the Fu-Cang Long are not in South Central . I did n't have to help you .
LEE: Why did you help me ?
CARTER: It does n't matter . Lee thinks about this for a BEAT .
LEE: I 'm not used to having a partner .
CARTER: We are not partners . Between you daddy , my daddy , and the beating I just took , as far as I can tell all partners get you is dead .
LEE: Well we 're not friends .
CARTER: You got that right . And we ai n't others . Maybe we should just end this ight here .
LEE: Fine with me .
CARTER: I wo n't talk to you , you do n't talk to me . We 'll die in peace .
LEE: See you in the next world .
CARTER: I do n't believe in reincarnation . So I wo n't see you in the next world .
LEE: Fine .
CARTER: I believe in heaven . You people believe in heaven ?
LEE: Yes . We have heaven .
CARTER: Is it the same heaven , or is it a Chinese heaven ?
LEE: What 's a Chinese heaven ?
CARTER: I thought it might be like those five foot and under basketball leagues . They do n't let everybody in .
LEE: I think we should stop talking .
CARTER: Fine by me .
LEE: No .
CARTER: If she was the right girl , you 'd be thinking about her .
LEE: Mind your own business .
CARTER: How was the sex ?
LEE: There was no sex . She was very traditional . We were waiting until we were married .
CARTER: You 're kidding . No sex ? Nothing ? No mu-shu ?
LEE: No mu-shu .
CARTER: What about a little king pao chicken ?
LEE: No kung pao chicken . Never .
CARTER: Steamed dumplings ?
LEE: Once in a while , steamed dumplings . But only when she was drunk .
CARTER: That 's rough , man . If I do n't get steamed dumplings once a week , I go crazy .
LEE: Tell me the truth , Carter . Do you think I have a good voice ?
CARTER: Are you serious ?
LEE: Forget it . It does n't matter . Lee turns away from Carter .
CARTER: As long as you 're askingI think you have a pretty good voice .
LEE: I knew it . What does she know . You want me to sing something ?
CARTER: That depends . How do the Fu-Cang-Long usually kill their victims ?
LEE: They 'll probably torture us first , shock our privates , then put two bullets in our eyes and one in the back of the head .
CARTER: Go ahead . Sing your ass off . Lee clears his voice .
LEE: Did you happen to see the most beautiful girl in the worldand if you did , was she crying , cryinghey !
HU LI: Do n't worry , the plates are safe . Yes , the dragon 's been fed .
CARTER: Very nice .
LEE: It 's focus . Every opponent has a weak spot . You ignore everything around you , and put all your energy into one perfect strike .
CARTER: I 'll remember that next time I 'm fighting a box .
LEE: Who 's Benjamin ?
CARTER: Benjamin Franklin , he discovered electricity .
LEE: A Chinese man discovered electricity .
CARTER: No Chinese man discovered electricity .
LEE: Yes he did . He also invented the icycle .
CARTER: Now that I believe .
LEE: We 're slowing down . This must be it .
CARTER: End of the line .
LEE: You 've been a good friend , James Carter .
CARTER: Oh no you do n't . Do n't you be getting corny on me , Lee . I 'll kick your ass from here to Compton .
LEE: You could never kick my ass . You mama 's oy .
CARTER: Do n't you talk about my mama . That 's more like it .
LEE: This way . I see some lights .
LEE: Vegas
CARTER: Lee . I just got an idea how someone could launder a hundred million dollars in cash .
LEE: Red Dragon .
CARTER: That was the name of Ricky Tan 's boat .
LEE: Let 's go .
CARTER: Wait a second . We ca n't go in like this . Look at this place , we got ta look fly . We got ta Mac out .
LEE: What is Mac out ?
CARTER: Follow me my Asian brother . Carter and Lee start to walk away .
SALESMAN: May I help you gentlemen ?
CARTER: Black . 42-long . Nothing touches this ody but pure silk . And get my partne something from the children 's department . Carter puts his hand on Lee 's shoulder .
SALESMAN: Would your partner like silk as well ? I personally like it when a couple matches . Carter takes his hand off Lee 's shoulder .
CARTER: Couple ? No , you got it wrong , there 's no couple here . Just two single police officers working a very dangerous case .
LEE: Yes . We have lots of big men chasing us .
SALESMAN: I 'm sure all the boys are chasing you two . Do n't worry , I 'll make you guys the bell of the ball .
CARTER: This is the last time I go shopping with you .
LEE: I own the place .
CARTER: That looks exactly like my Uncle Darrell .
LEE: Buddha is the symbol of luck and good fortune .
CARTER: Buddha is the symbol for fat and lazy . The man has the biggest tits in Asia .
SIGN: $ 50,000 buy in EVERYBODY 'S A WINNER !
STEVEN REIGN: A thousand years ago , a small , wealthy village in China hired a young Dragon to guard their treasure in a cave , hoping to scare off potential bandits . Thei plan worked quite well , until the people of the village started sneaking the Dragon extra food hoping to make him igger and stronger . The Dragon ate so much and grew so big that he eventually got stuck inside the cave and the treasure was stuck behind him for all eternity . Ladies and gentlemen , I have found that lost treasure . It is here , inside the greatest casino in the world ! Welcome to the Red Dragon , where everybody is a winner !
CARTER: Bring us some twelve-year old scotch Get us a box of your finest cigars . Give me ten dollars in nickels .
CRAPS DEALER: Winner ! Seven !
CARTER: Look at this place , Lee . The biggest front in the world .
LEE: Carterhere comes the rich white man .
CARTER: Wait here . I 'll handle this .
ISABELLA: Put your arms around me .
LEE: Excuse me ?
ISABELLA: Hold me close . There 's cameras everywhere .
LEE: What 's going on ?
ISABELLA: I need your help .
LEE: Last time you needed my help I ended up in the back of a truck .
ISABELLA: I 'm undercover . I had no choice . You have to trust me .
LEE: Just trying to make it look real .
ISABELLA: Look over there . That 's the eye in the sky room . Lee looks over her shoulder .
LEE: Why do n't you go get them ?
ISABELLA: If I 'm wrong then my cover is blown .
CARTER: Stevie , how 's it going my man ? Somebody get a picture , we can use it for a mug shot .
STEVEN REIGN: Detective Carter , you always seem to show up where you do n't belong .
CARTER: Lem me ask you something , Steven . And I want the truth . Is there any way I can date your daughter ? Just dinner and a movie , maybe go listen to some jazz
STEVEN REIGN: Vegas has been my town for 30 years . I crawled out from under the first rock . Do you really think you can intimidate me here ?
CARTER: You 're right , you 're a smart guy . Most counterfeiters only get ten cents on the dollar . But this is an even swap . Pure genius .
STEVEN REIGN: You play games with me , Detective , and you 'll lose every time . Do n't forget . The odds are always in favor of the house .
ISABELLA: The Secret Service almost busted Reign at his casino in Macao , but the place urned down before we could move in .
LEE: How do I know I can trust you ?
ISABELLA: Dip me !
LEE: No . But I 'll help you .
CARTER: Lee , what the hell are you doing ?
LEE: Dancing ?
CARTER: Dancing ? I 'm out here trying to strong arm Steven Reign , putting my life on the line , and you 're up here dancing with some bimbo . Did she have a friend ?
LEE: It was Isabella . She says the plates are in the soft count room .
CARTER: Isabella ? Are you crazy , man ? She almost got us killed . She 's setting you up again !
LEE: No . I 'm going to find out .
CARTER: Wait a second . There 's guards all ove the place . You 'll need a distraction . Carter looks around the casino .
LEE: Try to keep them busy for five minutes .
CARTER: I 'll give it my best shot .
CRAPS DEALER: Sir , you 're aware that we require a fifty-thousand dollar buy in to gamble here this weekend ?
CARTER: I saw the sign , I can read . Now gim me a hundred-thousand in chips . And a Diet Coke and some wash-n-dries . Let 's move , people , I came to play .
CRAPS DEALER: Those are five hundred dollar chips .
CARTER: Did you give me five-hundred dolla chips because I 'm black ?
CRAPS DEALER: No , I just assumed
CARTER: You assumed a brother coming in here can only afford five-hundred dollars a roll , is that right ? Are you a racist ?
CRAPS DEALER: No , sir .
CARTER: Everyone else at the table has thousand dollar chips , but the black man gets the nickel , is that it ? Did my people survive two-hundred years of slavery so you could send us back to the cotton fields with five-hundred dollar chips ? Do I look like Chicken George to you ? The PIT BOSS gets on his walkie-talkie .
PIT BOSS: Floor security , we have a problem at table nine .
CARTER: Answer me one question . How come Ben Vereen is n't performing here at the hotel ? Is Ben Vereen not good enough for you people ?
PIT BOSS: Lionel Ritchie is performing here tonight .
CARTER: Lionel Ritchie has n't been black since the Commodores .
PIT BOSS: Sir , you 're going to have to calm down .
CARTER: I have a dream , where black people and white people can gamble together without getting different chips !
LEE: Hi . How 's it going ? You guys have change for a twenty ?
HU LI: Open your mouth .
CRAPS DEALER: Winner six !
CARTER: How much is that ?
CRAPS DEALER: Two-hundred thousand !
CARTER: Two-hundred thousand dollars ? Who wants a hundred dollars ?
GAMBLER: I am not royalty , sir .
CARTER: Do n't say that , we 're all royalty . My great grandmammy was Queen Nephertit we probably cousins , man . How much you got on the table ?
GAMBLER: One million .
CARTER: Yeah , we definitely cousins now . Who wants to blow on my hand for luck ?
TEXAN: She 's not my lady . She 's my niece .
CARTER: Can I come over for Thanksgiving ? Come on , baby , give me some luck .
TEXAN: Hey , buddy , watch yourself .
CARTER: Do n't threaten me . I got friends in this town that will bite off your ears . Just sit tight , because I 've got the dice and I am on fire ! Carter throws the dice .
CRAPS DEALER: Winner , seven ! The table erupts as Carter grabs the dice .
CARTER: Let it ride !
RICKY TAN: Imagine a business where people hand you money . And you hand them back absolutely nothing .
HU LI: He 's going for the plates .
RICKY TAN: Look at this old fool , what does he think he 's doing ? Ricky Tan shifts his attention back to Lee .
CRAPS DEALER: Winner ! Four , winner !
CARTER: I 'm up a hundred and fifty-grand . That 's a Ferrari . Do they sell those here in the gift shop ? Somebody cash me out !
PIT BOSS: Sir , we 'd like to escort you to the cashier .
CARTER: That would be great . Do n't want any of these rich white people to jump me .
RICKY TAN: Chai Hu Li . Have fun .
HU LI: In a few minutesyou 'll beg me to push this button .
ISABELLA: It 's time to end this , Inspector .
HU LI: Get the detonator !
CARTER: Lee ! ! The guards restrain him .
CARTER: Check it out . Catfight ! POW ! He socks a GUARD in the face .
LEE: Bomb ! ! !
CARTER: Why did n't you tell me you had a bomb in your mouth ?
LEE: I did !
CARTER: No you did n't !
LEE: Yes I did . I said MMMMMM ! A hand on Carter 's arm . THIS IS SERIOUS .
CARTER: What ? ! ? !
LEE: We have to get to the Penthouse .
CARTER: Hold on !
LEE: Carter
CARTER: Just GO !
LEE: Are you okay ?
ISABELLA: I 'm fine .
LEE: I did n't know which side you were on .
ISABELLA: Now you know .
RICKY TAN: American 's love to gamble . Do n't they , Mr. Reign ?
STEVEN REIGN: I 'm cutting our deal short . I 'm leaving .
RICKY TAN: And my plates ?
STEVEN REIGN: They stay with me . I 'm sure you wo n't have a problem with that .
RICKY TAN: I enjoyed that little story you told about the Dragon and the treasure . My mother used to tell it to me all the time . Do you know the moral of that story , Mr. Reign ?
STEVEN REIGN: Greed will imprison us all .
RICKY TAN: I hate that fortune cookie shit .
LEE: Put the plates down .
CARTER: Will you STOP ? ! ? ! What am I supposed to fight you with ?
RICKY TAN: You 're just like your father , Lee . All these years hiding behind his badge . I wanted to help him , to share with him , ut he was too afraid of change . When you think about it , I did n't really kill him . I just put him out of his misery .
LEE: Put the plates down . It 's over .
RICKY TAN: I do n't think it 's over . There are casinos all over this country . Let me make you a rich man , Lee . Do n't make the same mistake he did . Ricky glances at the gun in Reign 's belt .
LEE: If you reach for that gun , I 'm going to kill you .
RICKY TAN: Do n't you remember ? I 'm already dead .
CARTER: Hey , Ricky , how 's it going man ? What 's up , Lee ?
RICKY TAN: Would you like me to tell you how you father died ?
CARTER: Lee , you okay ?
RICKY TAN: He never begged for his life . Or tried to make a deal . All that he asked me , just seconds before I pulled the trigger , was that I promise not to kill you .
CARTER: Lee , wait a second . It 's not worth it , man . He 's making you do this .
LEE: It 's worth it to me .
RICKY TAN: Do you have it in you , Lee ? Or are you gon na spend the rest of your life hiding like your father ?
CARTER: C'mon , Lee . He 's going to jail . You won , now just put the gun down .
RICKY TAN: That 's what I thought .
CARTER: I do n't know about you , but I need a wine cooler .
HU LI: We 'll go together , Inspector .
CARTER: Please tell me she just asked for a ride to the airport .
LEE: I ca n't believe I flew ten-thousand miles for this shit ! !
CARTER: We made it , man .
LEE: No problem .
VERSACE SALESMAN: Well , there is a God after all .
LIMO DRIVER: Here we are . The Red Dragon hotel .
VERSACE SALESMAN: We 're all going gambling and then to see Siegried and Roy . I hope you two are feeling lucky !
CARTER: I saw that . She kissed you , did n't she ? You played it cool , though . Walking away , never looking back .
LEE: She 's going home to New York . I need some ice .
CARTER: That your gate down there ?
LEE: Yes .
CARTER: I 'm this way . I guess this is goodbye .
LEE: I guess so . Thank you , Carter .
CARTER: You take care of yourself , Lee .
LEE: Carter , wait . There 's something I want you to have .
CARTER: Your father 's badge ? No way , man . I ca n't take this .
LEE: It 's okay . I can finally let it go . Carter takes the badge . Smiles .
CARTER: In that case , I got something for you . I picked it up at the hotel . Carter pulls out a WAD OF CASH .
LEE: What is this ?
CARTER: About fifty grand . I won it at the tables .
LEE: No , Carter . I ca n't take this .
CARTER: It 's okay , I got lots more . Carter pulls out another wad of cash .
LEE: This money is evidence .
CARTER: Come on , Lee . Stop being a cop for five minutes and live it up . There must be something you want . Lee looks back toward Isabella .
LEE: I always wanted to go to Madison Square Garden . See the Knicks play .
CARTER: New York City ?
LEE: First class .
CARTER: The Plaza Hotel ?
LEE: A little Mu-shu .
CARTER: Some Kung-Pao ? They look at each other , smile .
LEE: Amen to that , brother .
ALI: It 's me . It 's Ali I left . I took the kid with me . She ca n't take care of him anymore . I got into a fight with the guy she 's with . I do n't know where to go . What do I do with the kid ? I ca n't talk . I do n't have any more credit Call me back ! He hangs up quickly and turns to Sam .
SAM: I 'm thirsty .
ALI: We do n't have any money .
SAM: I 'm thirsty !
ALI: Stop it .
SAM: I 'm tired .
ALI: So am I . He 's coming to pick us up . Come on !
RICHARD: A couple miles back I saw a blond guy . I stop short ! `` You Ali ? '' I ask . He says `` No , me Kurt '' . Another few hundred feet , another big blond guy ! I ask `` You Ali ? '' again . This time I did n't even understand what he answered . Anothe few hundred feet Ten of them ! Ten ! Every Kraut and Flemish guy on the coast ! So I go call your sister Ali is thrown for a loop .
ALI: You kidding ?
RICHARD: A little .
SAM: Is he a little crazy ?
RICHARD: What ? You do n't like my truck ?
SAM: Yeah I do .
RICHARD: He does n't like my truck !
SAM: I do too like it !
RICHARD: We all got fired after some Spanish guy ought out the trucking company Eight truckers . I thought it over , discussed it with your sister and figured I could do it on my own . So I bought this truck with my severance pay
ANNA: Is this all you have for him ?
ALI: She did n't remember anything . It was already in there . She forgot about it , that 's all . When they went to Amsterdam , they 'd use the kid to smuggle dope
ANNA: You got to be kidding !
ALI: That 's what she told me . Anna shakes her head in disbelief . A beat .
ANNA: How will you tend to the kid ? I wo n't be able to all the time . I work , and so does Richard Was he in school there ?
ALI: I do n't know .
ANNA: You do n't know if your kid 's in school ?
ALI: Um , no . You in school ? No answer . Sam is watching TV .
ANNA: Back at your mom 's place , did you go to school ?
SAM: Yes .
ANNA: I can try to enroll him at the school . I 'll see We also need to get him some clothes . He ca n't go like that I 'll ask the neighbors . Come with me to
ALI: Yeah .
ANNA: `` Yeah '' what ? Is that too much ?
ALI: It 's not too much , but I do n't have it . I had to pay for the train
ANNA: So what are you going to do ?
ALI: I do n't know . Find a job . Whatever .
ANNA: Yeah , whatever You think there 's any work around here ? You think there 's any more here than there ? Where has that ever been the case ? When you told me you were coming down ,
ALI: What should I have done with the kid ? Where should I have gone ?
ANNA: I have no idea , but if you stay here you have to pay your share , or else go somewhere else . As far as we 're concerned , it 's easy we ca n't ! How long were you thinking of staying ?
ALI: I do n't know .
SECURITY GUARD: Unzip your jacket ! Empty your pockets ! Ali keeps his cool .
ALI: Unzip it yourself !
SAM: Mm .
ALI: What do you like the most at Auntie 's ?
SAM: The dogs .
ALI: Is that all ? Nothing else besides the dogs ?
SAM: The truck .
ALI: The dogs and the truck . The house ? Auntie ? The ocean ?
SAM: The dogs and the truck .
ALI: We have it good here
OWNER: No criminal record ? You never fucked up ?
ALI: No .
OWNER: Is that the truth ? We 'll be checking anyway Ali nods . The owner reaches out .
ALI: I worked in a slaughterhouse . Not for long . It closed .
OWNER: Ever work in security ?
ALI: Yeah . I was a night watchman in a stadium for 6 months . Working for the city . In a parking lot too . I did replacements .
OWNER: Ever do any combat sports ?
ALI: Karate , for 6 years . I even won Junio Division . And two years of boxing . Thai .
OWNER: You gave it up ?
ALI: It was my trainer who gave up .
OWNER: Why ?
ALI: He died . A beat .
OWNER: And how are you physically ? You stay in shape ?
ALI: Yeah .
OWNER: You do n't smoke ?
ALI: No .
OWNER: Drink ?
FOUED: Okay , I 'll let you through because I 'm outnumbered . Four against one , I do n't stand a chance !
ALI: And it works ?
FOUED: Sometimes . But you ca n't be dressed like that . Like a parking lot attendant They are interrupted by the bouncer .
THE CAUCASIAN: Fight !
ALI: Are you okay ? Breathe out of your mouth . In and out . Put your head back . Walk a little . Walk and breathe
STEPHANIE: I have to go home
ALI: You have friends here ?
STEPHANIE: No , I came alone . I have my car in the lot . I 'll be fine .
ALI: You ca n't drive like that .
STEPHANIE: I 'm fine . I 'm fine , I said . Thanks .
ALI: You ca n't drive like that . I 'll call you a cab .
STEPHANIE: How do I get my car afterwards ? Seriously , I 'll be fine . Trust me ! We hear a voice from the parking lot .
ANGRY MAN: Bitch ! Stephanie looks back .
STEPHANIE: Shit .
ALI: Where 's your car ?
STEPHANIE: Did you hurt yourself ? He shows her his right wrist .
ALI: You often go to the Fever ?
STEPHANIE: No .
ALI: Why do you go alone ? No answer .
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ALI: To find a guy ? She turns and looks down her nose at him
STEPHANIE: Oh yeah ?
ALI: You 're dressed like that just for dancing ?
STEPHANIE: How am I dressed ?
ALI: I do n't know Look . He points to her skirt , riding up her thighs .
STEPHANIE: Yeah , so what ?
ALI: You look like a hooker .
STEPHANIE: Excuse me ?
ALI: How would you call it ?
STEPHANIE: I do n't believe this . Pull over here !
ALI: What ?
STEPHANIE: Stop this car on the double !
ALI: Dressed like that , it 's no surprise that
STEPHANIE: That 's enough now ! They ride in silence .
ALI: I do n't know . She takes out her wallet .
STEPHANIE: For a taxi .
ALI: Do n't worry . Got any ice at your place ? He shows her his wrist .
STEPHANIE: Wait , I 'll go check .
ALI: I can come up .
STEPHANIE: No !
ALI: So what ?
STEPHANIE: Wait here . I 'll be right back .
SIMON: What the hell ? What 's going on ?
STEPHANIE: Nothing . A fight
SIMON: Are you okay ?
STEPHANIE: Yeah , I 'm fine .
SIMON: Who 's he ?
STEPHANIE: The bouncer from the Fever . He drove me home .
ALI: Ali .
SIMON: The Fever ? What the hell were you doing there ? Ali opens the refrigerator .
ALI: Ice cubes .
STEPHANIE: He hurt his hand Simon pulls Stephanie into the bedroom .
ALI: Is that you in the picture with the orcas ?
STEPHANIE: Not orcas . Just one orca . Her name is Niska .
ALI: Is that your job ?
STEPHANIE: Yep Ali nods vaguely admiringly .
ALI: Fuck I did n't think that
STEPHANIE: That what ? A whore could train whales ? Well , you see Simon is at the door . He is wearing a jean .
SIMON: Okay , are you done now ? Can you leave us alone ? Ali stares him down .
ALI: You talking to me ?
SIMON: Yes , but
ALI: But what ?
SIMON: Nothing , forget it
ALI: Okay , I 'm going . So long . I left you my number if ever you need it
SIMON: Are you okay ? Are you upset ?
STEPHANIE: No , I 'm not upset . She drinks the aspirin .
SIMON: Before ?
STEPHANIE: With that guy who dropped me off . I saw you face . I saw how you piped down .
SIMON: I piped down ? Me ?
STEPHANIE: Yes , you piped down Do n't tell me what I should do , how I should live my life . Do n't give me any more orders , Simon .
SIMON: What does that mean ?
STEPHANIE: Do n't give me any more orders , that 's all .
TRAINER: Coming ? No answer . Tension . He leaves without a word .
LOUISE: Really this is n't fair .
STEPHANIE: No , Louise , there are lots of things you can say but not that . The pools are my esponsibility and all I care about are the animals . I have to see to their environment and that starts with their trainers . Do you understand ?
LOUISE: What are you trying to make me believe , that I was n't up to par ?
STEPHANIE: No , listen .
LOUISE: Lacking in maturity ? Skills ?
STEPHANIE: You 're not consistent . We 've already discussed that . The foundation of the elationship with the orcas is stability . During your internship you 've had your ups and downs . It 's not your competence that
LOUISE: You know this has nothing to do with my internship . You could n't care less if I was competent or not ! It has to do with that I fucked Michael . Just say so .
STEPHANIE: Oh , please
LOUISE: And in fact what really bothers you is not that we fucked , but that he told me about you . How you think you 're so How you 've ecome such a bitch . That 's why you 're firing me . That 's what you should write in your report .
STEPHANIE: Okay , are you done ? We can stop here . No need to spoil the rest of your internship . Louise stands up .
LOUISE: Tom and Niska They got in each other 's way .
STEPHANIE: Stop it , calm down . I 'm fine !
ALI: Sam !
SAM: Stop it , Dad ! It 's cold . Stop !
ALI: Are n't you supposed to be taking care of him ? What the fuck are you up to ?
JOELLE: I was next doing the laundry .
ALI: Take a look at him !
JOELLE: I 'll put him in the shower .
ALI: Do n't go in there . It 's disgusting . You hear ? Joelle takes Sam and disappears inside .
JOELLE: There was an accident at Marineland .
ALI: I know her .
LOUISE: Help ! Help ! Please !
STEPHANIE: My legs ! What did you do with my legs ? Two nurses arrive .
LOUISE: I stopped by your place . I saw the cleaning woman . She did n't want me to pay her . She was in shock . She 's scared to come here . She sends her regards . She closes her eyes . Black . She opens them .
MOTHER: I spoke to your brothers . They wanted to talk to you but I did n't think it was the ight time . We 'll all come with Hugo during the next school break I was afraid I might lose you . I do n't know what I 'd have
GILLES: Want me to tell you something ?
GILLES: You have n't finished mourning , that 's all !
STEPHANIE: Really ? Mourning who ?
GILLES: Your legs .
STEPHANIE: Mourning my legs ?
GILLES: Yes .
RAPHAEL: Pass me the joint
GILLES: They were a part of you . When a man dies , he gets buried . There 's a ceremony , a prayer Now a piece of you ended up in a hospital trashcan without a prayer , without any time for meditation .
STEPHANIE: Yeah , it 's really symbolic
GILLES: I know where my arm is . We buried it under a nice oak tree behind my house in the scrubland . My wife and kids came and we sang Stephanie has a fit of the giggles .
STEPHANIE: No , it 's the grass . I 'll stop She laughs so hard she cries .
RAPHAEL: Shit , it 's a laugh riot up there . Can you take us home ?
GILLES: I 'm too beat . I 'll take a nap , then go . How are you getting home ?
ALI: What do you want ?
MARTIAL: To come in .
ALI: Hey , Kadhi , come here ! Kadhi comes over and looks at the guy .
KADHI: Okay , okay Are you Martial ?
MARTIAL: Yeah .
KADHI: Give me your keys .
ALI: Who 's he ?
KADHI: It 's fine . The boss told me he was coming . He works for the company . Ali hands him the bunch of keys .
ALI: Will this do ?
MARTIAL: Perfect . Put it down there .
ALI: Fire them .
MARTIAL: You think that 's how it works ? What do you do before you fire them ?
ALI: A stroll ?
MARTIAL: Walk down the aisle . No , further down , like you came out of that door there . Good , perfect
ALI: Okay , then I 'll be getting back .
MARTIAL: Hold on !
ALI: It 's fine .
MARTIAL: Take it . Angle on the bill in Ali 's hand .
ALI: Hello ?
STEPHANIE: How do you think I am ? A beat . Ali is at a loss to answer .
ALI: Okay normal .
STEPHANIE: Still a bouncer ?
ALI: No , not really .
STEPHANIE: You want to get together ?
ALI: Yeah , but nights are tough . I 'm a security guard now . Three nights a week .
STEPHANIE: I 'm crazy busy too . Every day and every night . I do n't know how to manage A beat .
ALI: Huh ?
STEPHANIE: Come now .
ALI: No I just got here .
STEPHANIE: Was that you who rang before ? She looks exhausted but feverish .
ALI: No .
STEPHANIE: Come in . Sit down . He sits down on a small couch .
ALI: Yes .
STEPHANIE: I only have instant .
ALI: That 's fine .
STEPHANIE: I do n't know Three or four months .
ALI: It 's nice . She comes back .
STEPHANIE: Help me what ? Walk ?
ALI: No , for the cleaning and everything
STEPHANIE: Yeah there are people . They come and go . Hold on .
ALI: Hey , are you okay ?
STEPHANIE: I 'm fine . He opens the window .
ALI: Yeah , a little .
STEPHANIE: It 's me .
ALI: Let 's go out . Hey , you hear me ?
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ALI: Let 's go out .
STEPHANIE: No .
ALI: Get dressed .
STEPHANIE: Leave me alone .
ALI: Where are your clothes ? He opens the closet .
STEPHANIE: I do n't know . You 're the one who wanted to go out
ALI: Should we go to the ocean ?
STEPHANIE: I do n't care .
ALI: I want to go in .
ALI: I feel like swimming !
STEPHANIE: Go ahead .
ALI: You do n't want to ?
STEPHANIE: Huh ?
ALI: You do n't feel like swimming ? She looks daggers at him .
STEPHANIE: Do you realize what you 're saying ?
ALI: Who the fuck cares ? There 's no one here !
STEPHANIE: Forget it .
ALI: How , like this ?
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ALI: You okay ?
STEPHANIE: Do n't let me go ! Not right away Do it gently .
ALI: So ?
STEPHANIE: I ca n't stop . If I do , I sink . Wait She gesticulates
ALI: You swim like a real pro ! She shuts her eyes .
STEPHANIE: Fuck that 's good !
ALI: Huh ?
STEPHANIE: Thanks .
FOUED: I have to get back . I need to train . Ali nods , without actually looking at him .
ALI: I 'm still at the gym . I 'm leaving I said I 'm leaving ! He hangs up . They continue .
LOUISE: Steph !
STEPHANIE: It 's fine !
LOUISE: What do you mean ? You 're a freaking pain ! I have to get back to work . Come on , let me help you .
STEPHANIE: Let go of me ! Stop , I can manage alone .
LOUISE: Oh yeah ? Okay , so manage then !
STEPHANIE: I can do the seat belt !
LOUISE: Ca n't you call them to tell them we 're going to be late ?
VITIAS: We 'll order two pairs of prosthetic devices , one for everyday life and one for the sport you do .
STEPHANIE: Do n't you have something simpler , classier ?
VITIAS: What do you mean by classier ?
STEPHANIE: I do n't know like a wooden leg with a piece of rubber at the end ?
VITIAS: No , sorry . We do n't make those models anymore . Louise shuts her eyes , visibly exasperated .
STEPHANIE: Or just a plank . A plank with wheels and straps . And irons to move forward with .
LOUISE: Can you cut it out ?
STEPHANIE: What ? If I want
LOUISE: I 've had enough of your schtick , you hea me ?
STEPHANIE: Come on
LOUISE: Shut up !
STEPHANIE: Go if you want I 'll take a taxi .
LOUISE: I told them I was with you .
STEPHANIE: And that works ? If you tell them you 're with me , do they let you do what you want ?
LOUISE: Well
STEPHANIE: Cool . If ever you want a day off , just tell me . I 'll write you a note .
NURSE: 10 more minutes , just to make sure . Then Doctor Vitias will come for you . She smiles and closes the door .
KADHI: Look at the next one ! Watch how he whacks him .
MARTIAL: He says he 's done Thai boxing . He can fight . He 's enormous . He 's not afraid of taking punches , and he 's white .
COUSIN: I see .
ALI: Yeah .
COUSIN: Okay , so I organize the fights . I pick the fighters . I see if the money 's there . I ref . I collect the dough I take a third of the ets . The rest goes to the winner
MARTIAL: A third of how much ?
COUSIN: We do n't fight for less than 800 . Ali does the division in his head .
MARTIAL: So ? Ali hesitates .
ALI: There 's something I do n't get how much do you take ?
MARTIAL: I do n't know . You tell me . How much do you need ? I 'll take 20 % of what you win . How 's that ?
ALI: And how much does your cousin give you ?
MARTIAL: Oh , I introduced you to him , did n't I ? How 's that ?
ALI: Okay . The cousin stands up . They all shake on it .
ANNA: Keep Sam with you for 5 minutes !
ALI: Yeah , I heard .
SAM: Is he the good guy ?
ALI: No , he 's the bad guy . Look how he tries to grab his legs . Wait .
SAM: Why is the red one the bad guy ? Daddy ?
ALI: I do n't know . Look and tell me who wins .
MARTIAL: Last one standing gets the money . I know , ut he says it 's better that way . Do you think you 're in a position to negotiate a percentage ? Where did you get that idea from ? He gave me a website if you want to see the others . He takes out a small spiral notebook .
ALI: Tell him to give the website to his mother . All I see is me doing more fights and him making more dough . Ali goes to the window .
ANNA: What the hell ? I asked you to watch him fo 5 minutes !
ALI: I 'll call you back . Ali hangs up .
ANNA: He 's taking them to the country . They 'll be so happy there .
SAM: Leave me alone . They 're my babies !
ANNA: What are you doing ? Are you his father o not ?
ALI: You 're such a pain in the ass .
ANNA: Do n't talk to me like that !
ALI: Stop it now ! I said stop ! Calm the fuck down !
SAM: Let go of me ! Let go ! Sam kicks out . Ali shakes him .
ALI: Cut it out , dammit ! You 're such a pain !
ANNA: Do n't touch him ! Do n't touch him I said ! You know what ? You 're you 're a bad person .
STEPHANIE: What kind of boxing ? Thai ? Do you use you feet ?
ALI: No , just fists I think . We bash each other 's faces and whoever 's still standing at the end wins . Hey , you 're strangling me ! He puts her down on her chair .
STEPHANIE: Is it the first time you 're doing this ?
ALI: Yeah .
STEPHANIE: And you 're not scared ?
ALI: Of what ?
STEPHANIE: How much do they pay you for this ?
ALI: I do n't know . About 500 , 1000 maybe .
STEPHANIE: You 're doing that for 500 euros ?
ALI: Um , yeah .
STEPHANIE: You 're going to get whacked on the face and isk your health for 500 euros ?
ALI: Risk my health ? What are you talking about ? Why are you getting so worked up ?
STEPHANIE: I 'll give you the 500 ! Cancel it and I 'll give it to you tomorrow .
ALI: You can give it to me if you have too much money , but I said I was doing it and I am . That 's all .
STEPHANIE: If it 's not for money , why then ?
ALI: I did n't say it 's not for the money !
STEPHANIE: Why are you doing it ?
ALI: Oh , stop driving me crazy ! I 'm doing it to fight . For fun . Why did you clown around on your fish ? For the fun of it , right ? She grins .
STEPHANIE: Yeah and look how I ended up .
ALI: Spare me . You turn on the waterworks when you feel like it .
STEPHANIE: Your fight , if you do it
ALI: Mm ?
STEPHANIE: You think I can come along ?
HOMEBOY 1: Who 's she ?
MARTIAL: His girlfriend .
ALI: Motherfucker 's acting like he 's on Canal Plus .
STEPHANIE: Who are the other guys ?
ALI: I do n't know . Guys with money . Dealers . A beat .
STEPHANIE: You okay ?
ALI: Great .
MARTIAL: It 's okay . Let 's go . Fall against the big one in black shorts . I told you . They 're big guys .
ALI: Okay . And the bets ? How much is there ?
MARTIAL: A little over 2000 for the time being . But it 'll go up during the final match .
STEPHANIE: What do I do ?
MARTIAL: No girls . Stay in the car . You eady ? Ali nods .
COUSIN: You and you .
MARTIAL: If you get into trouble , do n't insist , just fall .
ALI: I have to go .
STEPHANIE: It 's nothing , just a cut . Got anything to disinfect it with ?
MARTIAL: No .
STEPHANIE: Keep this on it . It 's the only one I have . Ali looks up at her .
ALI: You liked it .
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ALI: Me too . He again lowers his head .
STEPHANIE: Put this on it . It 's the only one I have .
ALI: Pull over here . I 'll go rinse off my face . Give me 50 . Martial uses his turn signal .
MARTIAL: Have you known him for long ?
STEPHANIE: No , not very .
MARTIAL: What ?
STEPHANIE: You find it weird that we 're together ? You wonder what he 's doing with me ?
MARTIAL: No , since you know him , I just wanted to know if you 've seen him like that before ?
STEPHANIE: No . Martial finishes counting the bills .
MARTIAL: He freaks me out .
STEPHANIE: Why are you giving me that ?
MARTIAL: It 's for Ali .
STEPHANIE: Exactly . So why give it to me ? He looks at her , suddenly surprised .
MARTIAL: Hey , you make it complicated . Either you take it or you do n't . And either I talk or I keep my mouth shut .
ALI: For my kid .
STEPHANIE: You have a kid ?
ALI: Yep .
ANNA: You see what you 're like with him ? You 're not around and when you are , you scream at him . Damn , you hit him ! Why did you take him along if you act like that ? You should have left him .
ALI: Cut the shit . He 's not dead . I did n't do it on purpose . I 'm sorry about it .
ANNA: What 's that ?
ALI: Money . What I owe you plus the next few
ANNA: Where did you get this ? Same place ?
ALI: I won a fight .
ANNA: A fight ? What kind of fight ? Is that the only job you could find ? Is that why you have marks on your face ?
ALI: Hey , will you take the money or not ? Why are you looking at me that way ?
ANNA: Nothing .
ALI: You like it ?
RICHARD: Have you eaten ?
ALI: Yeah , yeah , I 'm fine .
CH: You do n't want to drink something before I
ALI: You want to go for a swim ?
SAM: I do n't want to .
ALI: Give Daddy a kiss !
SAM: No .
ALI: Give Daddy a kiss !
SAM: No ! Ali kisses him and hugs him tight .
MARTIAL: Hey ! I 'm here .
ALI: They told me 429 . Martial motions him in .
MARTIAL: Normal . This one is for the equipment .
ALI: I need to find a coach . A real one . Someone who has me work on my takedowns .
MARTIAL: Foued ?
ALI: Foued does n't know jackshit . Just jiu-jitsu and rap stuff . You need to ask Cousin . His guys must train somewhere .
MARTIAL: Think so ?
ALI: Yeah . And I 'll need some time to train .
MARTIAL: I 'll talk with Alta Secu . We 'll be able to work something out .
ALI: Work it out how ?
MARTIAL: I 'll have my company pay you and I 'll bill them what you cost me . They 'll keep paying you but now you 'll work directly for me . You wo n't have to spend your nights there .
ALI: Where 's that ?
MARTIAL: At the Mousquetaires . Martial rewinds and zooms in on some faces .
RICHARD: Look who it is ! Go on , honk !
ALI: Where are you ? I ca n't see you . Where ?
STEPHANIE: Stop looking . No more wheelchairs !
ALI: Since when ?
STEPHANIE: Two days .
ALI: You could have told me !
STEPHANIE: Why ? Is it a problem ?
ALI: No , I do n't know . You 're like before .
STEPHANIE: Well , not exactly .
ALI: Go on , let 's see .
STEPHANIE: I need to get my balance but supposedly that does n't take long .
ALI: It must be like walking on stilts
STEPHANIE: I do n't know . I 've never walked on stilts efore .
ALI: You look taller . Does it hurt ?
STEPHANIE: A little , but it feels good too .
ALI: Want to go for a swim ? She stops .
STEPHANIE: The beach pff , I do n't know It 's different today I do n't think I want to get undressed .
ALI: Is this all you have ?
STEPHANIE: Look in the fridge . There must be some cheese left .
ALI: You do n't have any pate ?
STEPHANIE: No , I do n't have any pate .
ALI: I 'm hungry . He begins with the cheese .
STEPHANIE: There are crackers up there . Do you have a girlfriend ? He shakes his head .
ALI: Yes , but they 're not girlfriends .
STEPHANIE: What are they ? Quick fucks ?
ALI: Yeah . She hesitates .
STEPHANIE: A lot ? He looks at her .
ALI: No , I do n't care . How about you ? Did you have a lot of boyfriends ?
STEPHANIE: When , before ?
ALI: Yeah .
STEPHANIE: I was with Simon
ALI: That 's all ?
STEPHANIE: No , there were others . But not a lot either . I I was n't very In fact , I liked it when guys looked at me I liked to feel that I turned them on Afterwards , I do n't know they bored me .
ALI: And now ?
STEPHANIE: Um , nothing . I do n't even know what it looks like anymore I do n't even know if it still works
ALI: You do n't want to ?
STEPHANIE: Did I say I did n't want to anymore ? Of course I still want to
ALI: How do you go about it ?
STEPHANIE: How do you think I go about it ? If I were a guy I 'd say I jerk off to a porn video I 'm a girl . Ali is dumbstruck .
ALI: You want to fuck ? She is thrown for a loop .
STEPHANIE: Huh ?
ALI: You want to know if it still works , so let 's fuck and that way you 'll know .
STEPHANIE: Just like that ?
ALI: Um , yeah . Give me that .
STEPHANIE: I I do n't know if I can like that
ALI: Whatever you want You tell me She hesitates .
STEPHANIE: Wait .
ALI: What do I do ?
STEPHANIE: Let 's try .
ALI: No . Your breasts can I ?
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ALI: Maybe you should stop talking now
STEPHANIE: Okay , I 'll stop .
ALI: Are you okay ? How was it ? She blushes .
STEPHANIE: Um , yes no I do n't really know . It 's different It 's hard to tell after just one try
ALI: Yeah but I do n't have time right now . I have to go !
STEPHANIE: No , no ! That 's not what I meant I just meant that it 's too soon to tell like too many things are happening at once Ali does n't understand .
ALI: But did you enjoy it or not ?
STEPHANIE: I did . A beat .
ALI: When you 're up for it and you ca n't find anyone , ask me . If I 'm oper , we 'll do it .
STEPHANIE: What 's `` oper '' ?
ALI: Operational If I 'm available . If I can , I mean !
STEPHANIE: If you 're `` oper '' we
ALI: Yeah . She sketches a vague gesture .
STEPHANIE: Nothing . Great .
LOUISE: See ? It was n't hard !
STEPHANIE: When I feel like it , I send him a text message and ask if he 's oper . If he is , we hook up . Louise reacts .
LOUISE: What 's oper ?
STEPHANIE: If he 's up for it . If he 's free . If he is , we fuck .
LOUISE: Is that all ?
STEPHANIE: Yes , that 's all . What else do you want ?
LOUISE: I do n't know . Is that enough ?
STEPHANIE: For me it is .
LOUISE: What does he do ?
STEPHANIE: He fights .
LOUISE: What kind ? MMA ?
STEPHANIE: No . Illicit fights in the projects . Louise reacts .
LOUISE: Just give me a second to react Are you in love ? She hesitates .
STEPHANIE: He does me good .
ALI: Shit !
STEPHANIE: Who is it ? He looks for his clothes
ANNA: I did n't know you were here . You scared me . What were you up to ?
ALI: I was talking ?
ANNA: You 're not alone ?
ALI: I 'm with a friend .
ANNA: You bring girls back to my place now ?
ALI: She 's a friend , I said .
ANNA: Oh , my God . Poor thing !
STEPHANIE: So that 's him ?
ANNA: They were out of grapefruit . I took tropical fruit .
STEPHANIE: Do n't bother . This is perfect , I swear . Thanks .
ALI: You do n't want to get going ?
STEPH: Wait , your sister
ALI: You freak her out . Ca n't you see ? She feels like a cashier with you . Pathetic with he tea and cookies . It 's a pain . Stephanie leans on a cane to stand up .
STEPH: I 'm going to help her .
ALI: No need to overdo it .
STEPHANIE: So this is where you sleep ? It 's a nice oom .
SAM: Does it hurt ? Stephanie smiles at him .
STEPHANIE: No Want to touch it ? Sam reaches out his hand .
MARTIAL: You okay ?
MARTIAL: Go get the equipment . I need to see him . Ali obeys .
UNION REP: Do n't bother . We 're the ones who will call the police . The police and the press . That way they 'll know you spy on your workers !
ALI: Packing up .
WOMAN: Is it your stuff ?
ALI: No .
WOMAN: You work for them ? She continues to manipulate her phone .
ALI: I said no picture !
WOMAN: Why should n't I ? You film us ! He straightens up menacingly .
ALI: I 'm going to slap you ! A hand grabs his arm . It 's Martial .
MARTIAL: Forget it . Let 's get out of here !
ALI: And the equipment ?
MARTIAL: Forget about it . We 're fucked here . The cops are going to question the managers and the managers will turn us in . They leave .
STEPHANIE: Is he okay with that ?
MARTIAL: He 's the one who asked me to call you .
STEPHANIE: Why me ?
MARTIAL: I guess he trusts you .
STEPHANIE: Yes , sure ut . I do n't know anything about that scene I do n't know those guys ! He hands her an old spiral notebook .
MARTIAL: I wrote it all down here . As for the rest , ask me your questions and I 'll answer them .
STEPHANIE: How do I do the bets ?
MARTIAL: You can count on your fingers , ca n't you ?
STEPHANIE: Honestly , can you see me dealing with those easts ?
MARTIAL: Yeah . A beat .
STEPHANIE: No .
MARTIAL: Grenoble , then Vienne .
STEPHANIE: Austria ?
MARTIAL: No , in the Isre .
STEPHANIE: Was the insurance money your idea ?
MARTIAL: Yes .
FOUED: The Cousin 's waiting for you inside . Table to the left of the bar .
ALI: Want to boogie ? She does n't understand .
STEPHANIE: No , no !
ALI: Whatever you say .
COUSIN: Can I talk to you ? She nods `` yes '' .
STEPHANIE: Yes ?
COUSIN: Is it true it 's still there ?
STEPHANIE: Yeah where else would it be ?
COUSIN: They did n't shoot it ? Or put it down , whatever ?
STEPHANIE: Why would they do that ?
COUSIN: I do n't know when a dog attacks you , they kill it . And the fish gets off . Do n't you mind that the thing that ate your legs is living it up in its shitty fucking aquarium ?
STEPHANIE: No . And I do n't want anything to happen to it . Now more than ever !
COUSIN: `` Now more than ever '' . Listen to you ! He takes another drag .
STEPHANIE: Do I sound like that ?
COUSIN: Tututu
STEPHANIE: Huh ? I ca n't hear you
GUY: No problem . What are you drinking ?
STEPHANIE: Champagne ?
GUY: What 's your name ? I 'm Pierre .
STEPHANIE: Hey there . I 'm Marie .
GUY: Come here often ?
STEPHANIE: No No , please . I do n't feel like it . Not tonight . I ca n't
GUY: Okay , no problem
STEPHANIE: It 's best I go . Good night and thanks .
GUY: Sorry . I could n't know . Stephanie freezes .
STEPHANIE: You could n't know what ?
GUY: Huh ?
STEPHANIE: You could n't know what , asshole ?
ALI: You okay ?
STEPHANIE: Fine .
ALI: Did you stay late ?
STEPHANIE: I ca n't remember . Afterwards the cousin took us to a club at la Colle sur Loup It sucked and it was 5 a.m. And you ?
ALI: Normal . A large coffee with milk and bread with butter ! A beat .
STEPHANIE: You think it 's good that we 're having this conversation ?
ALI: What conversation ?
STEPHANIE: That I ask how it was with the girl last night and you answer normal .
ALI: What do you want me to say ?
STEPHANIE: Nothing . He grimaces at her mood .
ALI: Oh la !
STEPHANIE: `` Oh la '' what ? You think it 's normal leaving with that bimbo in front of me ? What would you say if I did the same thing ?
ALI: Nothing .
STEPHANIE: Oh yeah ? You would n't care ?
ALI: You 're pissing me off . What 's your problem ?
STEPHANIE: Wait , let me put it differently . What I am for you ? A friend ? A pal ? Sort of a buddy , like Foued and the others ?
STEPHANIE: Tell me something do you and your buddies fuck every now and then ? He snickers .
ALI: How am I looking at you ?
STEPHANIE: You wanted us to continue Is n't that what you told Martial ?
ALI: What are you talking about , fucking o fighting ?
STEPHANIE: Well , we have to go about it well . We have to show each other manners , and consideration
ALI: Manners ?
STEPHANIE: Hey ! Stop acting like an idiot . Do the words other you ? You know what I mean . Tact You 've never stopped being tactful with me . A beat . He looks away .
ALI: I 'm oper now .
STEPHANIE: What ?
ALI: You made me oper . It 's you ! It 's because it 's all you 're talking about !
STEPHANIE: You are really a dog . He stands up .
ALI: I 'm getting out of here .
STEPHANIE: Why ?
ALI: I 'm fed up .
STEPHANIE: You 're bored ?
ALI: Yeah .
STEPHANIE: What I 'm saying bores you ?
ALI: Yeah .
STEPHANIE: Are you acting like a jackass on purpose ?
ALI: Are n't you being an ass by putting words everywhere ?
STEPHANIE: I 'm the one who 's leaving . She gets up . Ali finishes his coffee .
FOUED: He saw me at la Ciotat . We spoke a few times on the phone . When he has it in for you , he never lets up . Leonardini is well-known .
ALI: So are you going to Strasbourg ?
FOUED: What do you think ? I 'd be an idiot
ALI: And when are you leaving ? Leonardini enters the locker room .
FOUED: Mr. Leonardini , this is my buddy Ali . Ali Van Versh . Leonardini shakes his hand .
ALI: Pleased to meet you .
STEPHANIE: 3400 . Are you ready ?
ALI: Where are you ?
STEPHANIE: No , do n't look !
ALI: What are you doing ?
STEPHANIE: I 'm going to pee .
ALI: Is it early ?
STEPHANIE: Five .
ALI: Shit , I collapsed
STEPHANIE: I do n't like it when you see me like this
ALI: Hold on .
STEPHANIE: I called the numbers they gave me at the gym . I spoke to an organizer , Gnther Bower . She yawns .
ALI: Yeah . And when do I see him ?
STEPHANIE: Later , in his gym in Dortmund . He wants to organize a test match , to see what you 're worth . To see if you 've got the `` Gttliche Zorn '' '' Ali comes out of the shower .
ALI: Huh ?
STEPHANIE: Turn on the water when you pee . It 's disgusting . He runs some water .
ALI: Mm .
STEPHANIE: It does n't seem broken .
ALI: No . They look at each other .
STEPHANIE: Mr. Bower ?
GNTHER: Yes ?
STEPHANIE: I 'm Stephanie Granget .
GNTHER: I do n't know . I 'll see what I can do . What happened to your legs ?
STEPHANIE: An accident . In another life . I was an animal trainer . I worked with orcas The show took a turn for the worse .
GNTHER: Oh , of course ! In France ! The accident ! It was you ? ! I 'm talking to a star ! Stephanie makes a face .
STEPHANIE: Why ?
GNTHER: I acted like an arrogant business man . I 'm so ashamed . Will you forgive me ?
STEPHANIE: Of course , Mr. Bower .
GNTHER: Call me Gnther . Of course you can come tonight . As my guest !
STEPHANIE: What ? That ?
GNTHER: That and you !
STEPHANIE: So do I . He draws her inside . The door closes .
COLLEAGUE: So ?
ANNA: I got fired .
COLLEAGUE: Come on . There 's something we want to show you .
ALI: You okay ? No answer .
ANNA: What are you doing ?
ALI: I 'm hungry .
ANNA: Close it ! Do n't eat here . Ali stares at her , stunned .
ALI: What the hell is going on ?
ANNA: I was fired this morning . I 'm unemployed .
ALI: Shit But what 's the problem if I eat here ? Anna stands up .
ANNA: They had cameras in the storeroom They filmed us when we took the expired food . They fired us . Ali 's head spins .
ALI: I could n't know
ANNA: You could n't know ? You could n't know what ? That you were screwing us out of jobs ? That you were hurting people ?
RICHARD: Calm down . Calm down , I said !
ANNA: Go to your room . Go upstairs immediately .
STEPHANIE: Yeah . They do n't know .
ANNA: If I had an address or a number , I 'd give it to you Even if I think it 's dumb . Do you elieve me ?
STEPHANIE: Yes .
ANNA: After what he did to me
LEONARDINI: 1,2 1,2,3,4 Faster ! 1,2,3 . Yes . Faster ! Move ! You 're stepping back !
RICHARD: I ca n't come in any further or I wo n't be able to get back out ! Ali checks out the huge semi .
ALI: Looks like you changed trucks !
RICHARD: Bosses , in fact . I 'm back to being exploited .
ALI: How are things there ?
RICHARD: They 're okay .
ALI: My sister ?
RICHARD: She found a job at a school cafeteria . She seems to enjoy it .
ALI: Does she know about today ?
RICHARD: Yes . She says it 's good for the kid .
ALI: Tell her I ca n't help out for the time being ut that as soon as I have a little money
RICHARD: Do n't worry . When 's your fight ?
ALI: Next month . On the 9th . Richard smiles admiringly .
RICHARD: Keep us posted if you win .
ALI: Sure I will .
RICHARD: Yeah , right Okay , I 'm off . I 'll delive my load in Colmar and pick up the kid at around 7 , okay ?
ALI: Okay .
RICHARD: No later , because I have to be back tomorrow at 11 . The two men say good-bye . Sam waves good-bye .
SAM: I want to skate too !
ALI: They 're not skating . They 're skiing .
SAM: No , they 're skating .
ALI: They 're skiing , I said !
SAM: Skating . A few steps on
ALI: Skiing .
SAM: You 're annoying me .
ALI: Does Auntie still have dogs ?
SAM: No , now it 's chickens .
ALI: In the garden ?
SAM: Yeah , in the cage . They lay eggs .
ALI: That 's good .
SAM: But Auntie does n't want me to take the chicks in my room .
ALI: She 's right . They 're disgusting . Finished ? You want some
SAM: 5 minutes .
ALI: Now !
SAM: 5 minutes !
ALI: 5 minutes .
SAM: Daddy ! Daddy !
ALI: Shit !
NURSE: We 'll take care of you . Come with me .
RICHARD: Here . She wants to talk to you .
ALI: Anna ? Richard shakes his head .
STEPHANIE: How is he ?
ALI: Okay . He woke up an hour ago .
STEPHANIE: Is he injured ?
ALI: No , I do n't think so .
STEPHANIE: And how are you ?
ALI: I fucked up my hands on the ice .
STEPHANIE: Is it serious ?
ALI: They 're broken . A beat .
STEPHANIE: I 'm okay .
ALI: What are you up to ?
STEPHANIE: You mean in general ? In my life ?
ALI: I wanted to say that
STEPHANIE: I 'm not asking for anything . I 'll be going . I 'll call you back to see how Sam 's doing . Give him a kiss him from me
ALI: Do n't hang up .
ALI: Do n't hang up !
STEPHANIE: I wo n't hang up
ALI: He was in a coma for 3 hours Three hours For three hours he was dead I was scared to lose him . His eyes well with tears .
STEPHANIE: I wo n't leave you . Black .
ALI: I love you .
SAM: Did you win ? He smiles and kisses his biceps .
