DOWNEY: You 're lucky it 's us , Willy .
JO: I 'm requesting I 'm Captain , I 'd like to request that I be the attorney assigned to rep I 'd like to request that it be myself who is assigned to represent `` That it be myself who is assigned to represent '' ? Good , Jo , that 's confidence inspiring .
GIBBS: Jo , come on in .
JO: Thank you , sir .
GIBBS: Captain West , this is Lt. Commande Galloway . Jo , you know Mike Lawrence .
JO: Yes sir . Captain , I appreciate your seeing me on such short notice .
WEST: I understand there was some trouble over the weekend down in Cuba .
JO: Yes sir This past Friday evening . Two marines , Corporal Harold Dawson and Private Louden Downey , entered the barracks room of a PFC William Santiago and assaulted him . Santiago died at the base hospital approximately an hour later . The NIS agent who took their statements maintains they were trying to prevent Santiago from naming them in a fenceline shooting incident . They 're scheduled to have a hearing down in Cuba at 4 00 this afternoon .
LAWRENCE: What 's the problem ?
JO: Dawson and Downey are both recruiting poster marines and Santiago was known to be a screw-up . I was thinking that it sounded an awful lot like a code red . Jo lets this sink in a moment .
WEST: Christ .
JO: I 'd like them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel . Someone who can really look into this . Someone who possesses not only the legal skill , but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military . In short , Captain , I 'd like to suggest that I be the one who , that it be me who is assigned to represent them . Myself . Jo looks around the room for a response .
WEST: Joanne , why do n't you get yourself a cup of coffee .
JO: Thank you , sir , I 'm fine .
WEST: Joanne , I 'd like you to leave the oom so we can talk about you behind your back .
JO: Certainly , sir . JO gets up and walks out .
WEST: I thought this Code Red shit was n't going on anymore .
LAWRENCE: With the marines at GITMO ? Who the hell knows what goes on down there .
WEST: Well lets find out before the rest of the world does , this thing could get messy . What about this woman ?
LAWRENCE: Jo 's been working a desk at internal affairs for what , almost a year now .
WEST: And before that ?
GIBBS: She disposed of three cases in two years .
WEST: Three cases in two years ? Who was she handling , the Rosenbergs ?
GIBBS: She 's not cut out for litigation .
LAWRENCE: She 's a hall of an investigator , Jerry
GIBBS: In Internal Affairs , sure . She can crawl up a lawyer 's ass with the est of 'em , but when it comes to trial work
WEST: I know . All passion , no street smarts . Bring her back in .
JO: Thank you , sir .
WEST: And I 'll have Division assign them counsel
JO: But not me .
WEST: From what I understand from you colleagues , you 're much too valuable in your present assignment to be wasted on what I 'm sure will boil down to a five minute plea bargain and a week 's worth of paper work .
JO: Sir
WEST: Do n't worry about it . I promise you , division 'll assign the right man fo the job .
KAFFEE: Alright , let 's get two !
SECOND BASE: Sorry !
KAFFEE: Nothing to be sorry about , Sherby . Just look the ball into your glove .
SPRADLING: Kaffee !
KAFFEE: Let 's try it again .
SPRADLING: Kaffee ! !
KAFFEE: Dave . You seem upset and distraught .
SPRADLING: We were supposed to meet in you office 15 minutes ago to talk about the McDermott case . You 're stalling on this thing . Now we got this done and I mean now , or no kidding , Kaffee , I 'll hang your boy from a fuckin ' yardarm .
KAFFEE: A yardarm ? Sherby , does the Navy still hang people from yardarms ?
SHERBY: I do n't think so , Danny .
KAFFEE: Dave , Sherby does n't think the Navy hangs people from yardarms anymore . Let 's go , let 's get two ! He goes back to hitting fungoes .
SPRADLING: I 'm gon na charge him with possession and being under the influence while on duty . Plead guilty and I 'll ecommend 30 days in the brig with loss of rank and pay .
KAFFEE: It was oregano , Dave , it was ten dollars worth of oregano .
SPRADLING: Yeah , well your client thought it was marijuana .
KAFFEE: My client 's a moron , that 's not against the law .
SPRADLING: I 've got people to answer to just like you , I 'm gon na charge him .
KAFFEE: With what , possession of a condiment ?
SPRADLING: Kaffee
KAFFEE: Dave , I 've tried to help you out of this , but if you ask for tall time , I 'm gon na file a motion to dismiss .
SPRADLING: You wo n't got it .
KAFFEE: I will get it . And if the MTD is denied , I 'll file a motion in liminee seeking to obtain evidentiary ruling in advance , and after that I 'm gon na file against pre-trial confinement , and you 're gon na spend an entire summer going blind on paperwork ecause a Signalman Second Class ought and smoked a dime bag of oregano .
SPRADLING: B Misdemeanor , 20 days in the brig .
KAFFEE: C Misdemeanor , 15 days restricted duty .
SPRADLING: I do n't know why I 'm agreeing to this .
KAFFEE: 'Cause you have wisdom beyond you years . Dave , can you play third base ?
WHITAKER: 'Morning .
LAWYERS: 'Morning Captain Whitaker .
WHITAKER: Sam , how 's the baby ?
SAM: I think she 's ready to say her first word any day now .
WHITAKER: How can you tell ?
SAM: She just looks like she has something to say . KAFFEE walks in .
KAFFEE: Excuse me , sorry I 'm late .
WHITAKER: I 'm sure you do n't have a good excuse , so I wo n't force you to come up with a bad one .
KAFFEE: Thank you , Isaac , that 's nice of you .
WHITAKER: Sit-down , this first one 's for you . He hands KAFFEE some files .
KAFFEE: Requested to do what ? WHITAKER hands him a file .
WHITAKER: Guantanamo Bay , Cuba . A marine corporal named Dawson illegally fires a round from his weapon over the fenceline and into Cuban territory .
KAFFEE: What 's a fenceline ?
WHITAKER: Sam ?
SAM: A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys .
KAFFEE: Teachers pet .
WHITAKER: PFC William Santiago threatens to at on Dawson to the Naval investigative Service . Dawson and another member of his squad , PFC Louden Downey , they go into Santiago 's oom , tie him up , and stuff a rag down his throat . An hour later , Santiago 's dead . Attending physician says the rag was treated with some kind of toxin .
KAFFEE: They poisoned the rag ?
WHITAKER: Not according to them .
KAFFEE: What do they say ?
WHITAKER: Not much . They 're being flown up here tomorrow and on Thursday at 0600 you 'll catch a transport down to Cuba for the day to find out what you can . Meantime , go across the yard and see Lt . Commander Joanne Galloway . She 's the one who had 'em ought up here . She 'll fill you in on whatever she has . Any questions ?
KAFFEE: The flight to Cuba , was that 0600 in the morning , sir ?
WHITAKER: It seems important to Division that this one be handled by the book , so I 'm assigning co-counsel . Any volunteers ?
SAM: No .
WHITAKER: Sam .
SAM: I have a stack of paper on my desk
WHITAKER: Work with Kaffee on this .
SAM: Doing what ? Kaffee 'll finish this up in four days .
WHITAKER: Do various administrative you know things . Back-up . Whatever .
SAM: In other words I have no esponsibilities whatsoever .
WHITAKER: Right .
SAM: My kinda case .
KAFFEE: Hi . I 'm Daniel Kaffee . I was told to meet with Commander Galloway .
JO: You 're the attorney that Division assigned ?
KAFFEE: I 'm lead counsel . This is Sam Weinberg .
SAM: I have no responsibilities here whatsoever . JO 's deeply puzzled .
JO: Come in , please , have a seat KAFFEE and SAM come into the office and sit .
KAFFEE: Going on nine months now .
JO: And how long have you been out of law school ?
KAFFEE: A little over a year .
JO: I see .
KAFFEE: Have I done something wrong ?
JO: No . It 's just that when I petitioned Division to have counsel assigned , I was hoping I 'd be taken seriously . KAFFEE and SAM exchange a look .
KAFFEE: No offense taken , if you were wondering .
SAM: Commander , Lt. Kaffee 's generally considered the best litigator in ou office . He 's successfully plea argained 44 cases in nine months .
KAFFEE: One more , and I got a set of steak knives .
JO: Have you ever been in a courtroom ?
KAFFEE: I once had my drivers license suspended .
SAM: Danny
KAFFEE: Commander , from what I understand , if this thing goes to court , they wo n't need a lawyer , they 'll need a priest .
JO: No . They 'll need a lawyer .
KAFFEE: Sure , if you feel like it . JO takes another beat to size this guy up .
JO: One of the people you 'll be speaking to down there is the barracks C.O. , Colonel Nathan Jessep , I assume you 've heard of him .
KAFFEE: Who has n't ?
SAM: He 's been in the papers lately . He 's expected to be appointed Director of Operations for the National Security Counsel . Passing KAFFEE another file
JO: These are letters that Santiago wrote in his 8 months at GITMO
SAM: Guantanamo Bay .
KAFFEE: I know that one .
JO: He wrote to his recruiter , the fleet commander , HQ , Atlantic , even his senator . He wanted a transfer . Nobody was listening . You with me ?
KAFFEE: Yes .
JO: This last letter to the Naval investigative Service She hands it to KAFFEE who hands it to Sam
KAFFEE: Right . Is that all ?
JO: Lieutenant , this letter makes it look like your client had a motive to kill Santiago .
KAFFEE: Gotcha . And Santiago is who ?
JO: The victim .
KAFFEE: Write that down . Am I correct in assuming that these letters do n't paint a flattering picture of marine corps life in Guantanamo Bay ?
JO: Yes , among other
KAFFEE: And am I further right in assuming that a protracted investigation of this incident might cause some embarrassment for the security counsel guy .
JO: Colonel Jessep , yes , but
KAFFEE: Twelve years .
JO: I 'm sorry ?
KAFFEE: Twelve years . I can get it knocked down to Involuntary Manslaughter . Twelve years .
JO: You have n't talked to a witness , you have n't looked at a piece of paper .
KAFFEE: Pretty impressive , huh ?
JO: You 're gon na have to go deeper than just
KAFFEE: Commander , do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know about ?
JO: My job is to make sure you do you job . I 'm special counsel for Internal Affairs , so my jurisdiction 's pretty much in your face . Read the letters . You 're not under any obligation , but I 'd appreciate a report when you get ack from Cuba .
KAFFEE: Sure .
JO: You 're dismissed .
KAFFEE: Sorry , I always forget that . KAFFEE 's gone . SAM 's standing in the doorway .
SAM: He 's a little preoccupied . The team 's playing Bethesda Medical next week .
JO: Tell your friend not to get cute down there . The marines in Guantanimo are fanatical .
SAM: About what ? And in VOICE OVER we HEAR
JO: About being marines .
JESSEP: Who the fuck is PFC William T. Santiago .
KENDRICK: Sir , Santiago is a member of Second Platoon , Delta .
JESSEP: Yeah , well , apparently he 's not very happy down here at Shangri-La , cause he 's written letters to everyone but Santa Claus asking for a transfer . And now he 's telling tales about a fenceline shooting .
MARKINSON: I 'm appalled , sir .
JESSEP: You 're appalled ? This kid broke the Chain of Command and he ratted on a man of his unit , to say nothing of the fact that he 's a U.S. Marine and it would appear that he ca n't run from here to there without collapsing from heat exhaustion . What the fuck 's going on over at Windward , Matthew ?
MARKINSON: Colonel , I think perhaps it would be etter to hold this discussion in private .
KENDRICK: That wo n't be necessary , Colonel , I 'll handle the situation .
MARKINSON: The same way you handled the Curtis Barnes incident ? You 're doing something wrong , Lieutenant this
KENDRICK: My methods of leadership are
MARKINSON: Do n't interrupt me , I 'm still you superior officer .
JESSEP: And I 'm yours , Matthew . The room calms down for a moment .
MARKINSON: I think Santiago should be transferred off the base . Right away .
JESSEP: He 's that bad , huh ?
MARKINSON: Not only that , but word of this letter 's bound to get out . The kid 's gon na get his ass kicked .
JESSEP: Transfer Santiago . Yes I suppose you 're right . I suppose that 's the thing to do . Wait . Wait . I 've got a etter idea . Let 's transfer the whole squad off the base . Let 's on second thought Windward . The whole Windward division , let 's transfe 'em off the base . Jon , go on out there and get those boys down off the fence , they 're packing thei ags . Tom ! The ORDERLY cones in from the outer office .
ORDERLY: Sir !
JESSEP: Got me the President on the phone , we 're surrendering our position in Cuba .
ORDERLY: Yes sir !
JESSEP: Wait a minute , Tom . The ORDERLY stops .
KENDRICK: Yes sir .
MARKINSON: I think that 's a mistake , Colonel .
JESSEP: Matthew , I believe I will have that word in private with you now . Jon , that 's all . Why do n't you and I have lunch at the `` O '' club , we 'll talk about the training of young William .
KENDRICK: Yes sir , I 'd be delighted to hea any suggestions you have .
JESSEP: Dismissed . KENDRICK is gone .
MARKINSON: I do n't know that
JESSEP: I think he 's kind of a weasel , myself . But he 's an awfully good officer , and in the end we see eye to eye on the best way to run a marine corps unit . We 're in the business of saving lives , Matthew . That 's a esponsibility we have to take pretty seriously . And I believe that taking a marine who 's not yet up to the jo and packing him off to anothe assignment , puts lives in danger . MARKINSON starts to stand
DOWNEY: Hal ? DAWSON does n't say anything .
KAFFEE: Alright , let 's get tough out there ! JO walks up from behind the backstop .
JO: Excuse me .
KAFFEE: You want to suit up ? We need all the help we can get .
JO: No , thank you , I ca n't throw and catch things .
KAFFEE: That 's okay , neither can they .
JO: I wanted to talk to you about Corporal Dawson and Private Downey .
KAFFEE: Say again ?
JO: Dawson and Downey .
KAFFEE: Those names sound like they should mean something to me , but I 'm just not
JO: Dawson ! Downey ! Your clients !
KAFFEE: The Cuba thing ! Yes ! Dawson and Downey . Right . I 've done something wrong again , have n't I ?
JO: I was wondering why two guys have een in a jail cell since this morning while their lawyer is outside hitting a ball .
KAFFEE: We need the practice .
JO: That was n't funny .
KAFFEE: It was a little funny .
JO: Lieutenant , would you feel very insulted if I recommended to you supervisor that he assign different counsel ?
KAFFEE: Why ?
JO: I do n't think you 're fit to handle this defense .
KAFFEE: You do n't even know me . Ordinarily it takes someone hours to discove I 'm not fit to handle a defense . Jo just stares .
JO: I do know you . Daniel AlliStai Kaffee , born June 8th , 1964 at Boston Mercy Hospital . Your father 's Lionel Kaffee , former Navy Judge Advocate and Attorney General , of the United States , died 1985 . You went to Harvard Law on a Navy scholarship , probably ecause that 's what your father wanted you to do , and now you 're just treading water for the three years you 've got ta serve in the JAG Corps , just kinda layin ' low til you can get out and get a real job . And if that 's the situation , that 's fine , I wo n't tell anyone . But my feeling is that if this case is handled in the same fast-food , slick-ass , Persian Bazaar manner with which you seem to handle everything else , something 's gon na get missed . And I would n't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary , ecause their attorney had pre- determined the path of least esistance .
KAFFEE: Wow . I 'm sexually aroused , Commander .
JO: I do n't think your clients murdered anybody .
KAFFEE: What are you basing this on ?
JO: There was no intent .
KAFFEE: The doctor 's report says that Santiago died of asphyxiation brought on by acute lactic acidosis , and that the nature of the acidosis strongly suggests poisoning . Now , I do n't know what any of that means , but it sounds pretty bad .
JO: Santiago died at one a.m. At three the doctor was unable to determine the cause of death , but two hours later he said it was poison .
KAFFEE: Oh , now I see what you 're saying . It had to be Professor Plum in the library with the candlestick .
JO: I 'm gon na speak to your supervisor .
KAFFEE: Okay . You go straight up Pennsylvania Avenue . It 's a big white house with pillars in front .
JO: Thank you .
KAFFEE: I do n't think you 'll have much luck , though . I was assigned by Division , emember ? Somebody over there thinks I 'm a good lawyer . So while I appreciate your interest and admire your enthusiasm , I think I can pretty much handle things myself .
JO: Do you know what a code red is ? KAFFEE does n't , but he does n't say anything .
DAWSON: Sir , Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson , sir . Rifle Security Company Windward , Second Platoon , Delta .
KAFFEE: Someone has n't been working and playing well with others , Harold .
DAWSON: Sir , yes sir !
DOWNEY: Sir , PFC Louden Downey .
KAFFEE: I 'm Daniel Kaffee , this is Sam Weinerg , you can sitdown .
DAWSON: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: You do n't have to call me sir . Is this your signature ?
DOWNEY: Sir , yes sir .
KAFFEE: And you certainly do n't have to do it twice in one sentence . Harold , what 's a Code Red ?
DAWSON: Sir , a Code Red is a disciplinary engagement .
KAFFEE: What does that mean , exactly ?
DAWSON: Sir , a marine falls out of line , it 's up to the men in his unit to get him back on track .
KAFFEE: What 's a garden variety Code Red ?
DAWSON: Sir ?
KAFFEE: Harold , you say sir and I turn around and look for my father . Danny , Daniel , Kaffee . Garden variety ; typical . What 's a basic Code Red ?
DAWSON: Sir , a marine has refused to bathe on a regular basis . The men in his squad would give him a G.I . shower .
KAFFEE: What 's that ?
DAWSON: Scrub brushes , brillo pads , steel wool
SAM: Beautiful .
KAFFEE: Was the attack on Santiago a Code Red ?
DAWSON: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: Do you ever talk ?
DAWSON: Sir , Private Downey will answer any direct questions you ask him .
KAFFEE: Swell . Private Downey , the rag you stuffed in Santiago 's mouth , was there poison on it ?
DOWNEY: No sir .
KAFFEE: Silver polish , turpentine , anti- freeze
DOWNEY: No sir . We were gon na shave his head , sir .
KAFFEE: When all of a sudden ?
DOWNEY: We saw blood drippinq out of his mouth . Then we pulled the tape off , and there was blood all down his face , sir . That 's when Corporal Dawson called the ambulance .
KAFFEE: Did anyone see you call the ambulance ?
DAWSON: No sir .
KAFFEE: Were you there when the ambulance got there ?
DAWSON: Yes sir , that 's when we were taken under arrest .
SAM: On the night of August 2nd , did you fire a shot across the fenceline into Cuba ?
DAWSON: Yes sir .
SAM: Why ?
DAWSON: My mirror engaged , sir .
KAFFEE: His mirror engaged ?
SAM: For each American sentry post there 's a Cuban counterpart . They 're called mirrors . The corporal 's claiming that his mirror was about to fire at him .
KAFFEE: Santiago 's letter to the NIS said you fired illegally . He 's saying that the guy , the mirror , he neve made a move . DAWSON says nothing .
DAWSON: Because he broke the chain of command , sir .
KAFFEE: He what ?
DAWSON: He went outside his unit , sir . If he had a problem , he should 've spoken to me , sir . Then his Sergeant , then Company Commander , then
KAFFEE: Yeah , yeah , alright . Harold , did you assault Santiago with the intent of killing him ?
DAWSON: No sir .
KAFFEE: What was your intent ?
DAWSON: To train him , sir .
KAFFEE: Train him to do what ?
DAWSON: Train him to think of his unit before himself . To respect the code .
SAM: What 's the code ?
DAWSON: Unit Corps God Country .
SAM: I beg your pardon ?
DAWSON: Unit Corps God Country , sir .
KAFFEE: The Goverrment of the United States wants to charge you two with murder . You want me to go to the prosecuto with unit , corps , god , country ? DAWSON stares at KAFFEE .
DAWSON: That 's our code , sir .
KAFFEE: We 'll be back . You guys need anything ? Books paper , cigarettes , a ham sandwich ?
DAWSON: Sir . No thank you . Sir . KAFFEE smiles at DAWSON .
KAFFEE: Harold , I think there 's a concept you better start warming up to .
DAWSON: Sir ?
KAFFEE: I 'm the only friend you 've got .
ROSS: Dan Kaffee .
KAFFEE: Sailin ' Jack Ross .
ROSS: Welcome to the big time .
KAFFEE: You think so ?
ROSS: I hope for Dawson and Downey 's sake you practice law better than you play softball .
KAFFEE: Unfortunately for Dawson and Downey , I do n't do anything better than I play softball . What are we lookin ' at ?
ROSS: They plead guilty to manslaughter , I 'll drop the conspiracy and the conduct unbecoming . 20 years , they 'll e home in half that time .
KAFFEE: I want twelve .
ROSS: Ca n't do it .
KAFFEE: They called the ambulance , Jack .
ROSS: I do n't care if they called the Avon Lady , they killed a marine .
KAFFEE: The rag was tested for poison . The autopsy , lab report , even the initial E.R . and C.O.D . reports . They all say the same thing Maybe , maybe not .
ROSS: The Chief of Internal Medicine at the Guantanamo Bay Naval hospital says he 's sure .
KAFFEE: What do you know about Code Reds ? ROSS smiles and shakes his head .
ROSS: Oh man . He closes the office door .
KAFFEE: You tell me .
ROSS: I 'm gon na give you the twelve years , ut before you go getting yourself into trouble tomorrow , you should know this The platoon commander Lt. Jonathan Kendrick , had a meeting with the men . And he specifically told them not to touch Santiago .
KAFFEE: I 'll talk to you when I get back .
ROSS: Hey , we got a little four-on-fou going tomorrow night . When does you plane get in ?
JO: Hi there .
KAFFEE: Any luck getting me replaced ?
JO: Is there anyone in this command that you do n't either drink or play softball with ?
KAFFEE: Commander
JO: Listen , I came to make peace . We started off on the wrong foot . What do you say ? Friends ?
KAFFEE: Look , I do n't
JO: By the way , I brought Downey some comic books he was asking for . The kid , Kaffee , I swear , he does n't know where he is , he does n't even know why he 's been arrested .
KAFFEE: Commander
JO: You can call me Joanne .
KAFFEE: Joanne
JO: or Jo .
KAFFEE: Jo ?
JO: Yes .
KAFFEE: Jo , if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission , I 'll have you disbarred . Friends ?
JO: I had authorization .
KAFFEE: From where ?
JO: Downey 's closest living relative , Ginny Miller , his aunt on his mother 's side .
KAFFEE: You got authorization from Aunt Ginny ?
JO: I gave her a call like you asked . Very nice woman , we talked for about an hour .
KAFFEE: You got authorization from Aunt Ginny .
JO: Perfectly within my province .
KAFFEE: Does Aunt Ginny have a barn ? We can hold the trial there . I can sew the costumes , and maybe his Uncle Goobe can be the judge .
JO: I 'm going to Cuba with you tomorrow .
KAFFEE: And the hits just keep on comin ' . HOLD on KAFFEE and Jo . JO smiles .
LUTHER: Another day , another dollar , captain .
KAFFEE: You got ta play 'em as they lay , Luther .
LUTHER: What comes around , goes around , you know what I 'm sayin ' .
KAFFEE: If you ca n't beat 'em , join 'em .
LUTHER: Hey , if you 've got your health , you got everything .
KAFFEE: Love makes the world go round . I 'll see you tomorrow , Luther . And we
SAM: When Nancy gets back , you 're my witness . The baby spoke . My daughte said a word .
KAFFEE: Your daughter made a sound , Sam , I 'm not sure it was a word .
SAM: Oh come on , it was a word .
KAFFEE: Okay .
SAM: You heard her . The girl sat here , pointed , and said `` Pa '' . She did . She said `` Pa '' .
KAFFEE: She was pointing at a doorknob .
SAM: That 's right . Pointing , as if to say , `` Pa , look , a doorknob '' . SAM joins KAFFEE in the living room .
KAFFEE: Jack Ross came to see me today . He offered me twelve years .
SAM: That 's what you wanted .
KAFFEE: I know , and I 'll I guess , I mean I 'll take it .
SAM: So ?
KAFFEE: It took albout 45 seconds . He barely put up a fight .
SAM: Danny , take the twelve years , it 's a gift . KAFFEE finishes off his beer , and stands .
KAFFEE: You do n't believe their story , do you ? You think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives .
SAM: I believe every word they said . And I think they ought to go to jail fo the rest of their lives .
KAFFEE: I 'll see you tomorrow .
SAM: Remember to wear your whites , it 's hot down there .
KAFFEE: I do n't like the whites .
SAM: Nobody likes the whites , but we 're going to Cuba in August . You got Dramamine ?
KAFFEE: Dramamine keeps you cool ?
SAM: Dramamine keeps you from throwing up , you get sick when you fly .
KAFFEE: I get sick when I fly because I 'm afraid of crashing into a large mountain , I do n't think Dramamine 'll help .
SAM: I 've got some oregano , I hear that works pretty good .
KAFFEE: Yeah , right .
SAM: So ?
KAFFEE: I never mentioned Kendrick . I do n't even know who he is . What the hell . I 'll see you tomorrow .
HOWARD: Lieutenants Kaffee and Weinberg ?
KAFFEE: Yeah .
JO: Commander Galloway .
HOWARD: I 'm Corporal Howard , ma'am , I 'm to escort you to the Windward side of the base .
JO: Thank you .
HOWARD: I 've got some camouflage jackets in the back of the jeep , sirs , I 'll have to ask you both to put them on .
KAFFEE: Camouflage jackets ?
HOWARD: Regulations , sir . We 'll be riding pretty close to the fenceline . The Cubans see an officer wearing white , they think it 's someone they might wan na take a shot at . KAFFEE turns and glares at SAM .
KAFFEE: Good call , Sam .
HOWARD: We 'll just hop on the ferry and be over there in no time .
KAFFEE: Whoa ! Hold it ! We got ta take a boat ? !
HOWARD: Yes sir , to get to the other side of the bay .
KAFFEE: Nobody said anything about a boat .
HOWARD: Is there a problem , sir ?
KAFFEE: No . No problem . I 'm just not that crazy about boats , that 's all .
JO: Jesus Christ , Kaffee , you 're in the Navy for cryin ' out loud !
KAFFEE: Nobody likes her very much .
HOWARD: Yes sir . The jeep drives on and we
JESSEP: Nathan Jessep , come on in and siddown .
KAFFEE: Thank you . I 'm Daniel Kaffee , I 'm the attorney for Dawson and Downey . This is Joanne Galloway , she 's observing and evaluating
JO: Colonel .
JESSEP: Pleased to meet you , Commander .
KAFFEE: Sam Weinberg . He has no responsibility here whatsoever .
JESSEP: I 've asked Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick to join us .
MARKINSON: Lt. Kaffee , I had the pleasure of seeing your father once . I was a teenager and he spoke at my high school . KAFFEE smiles and nods .
JESSEP: Lionel Kaffee ?
KAFFEE: Yes sir .
JESSEP: Well what do you know . Son , this man 's dad once made a lot of enemies down in your neck of the woods . Jefferson vs. Madison County School District . The folks down there said a little black girl could n't go to an all white school , Lionel Kaffee said we 'll just see about that . How the hell is your dad ?
KAFFEE: He passed away seven years ago , colonel .
JESSEP: Well do n't I feel like the fuckin , asshole .
KAFFEE: Not at all , sir .
JESSEP: Well , what can we do for you , Danny .
KAFFEE: Not much at all , sir , I 'm afraid . This is really a formality more than anything else . The JAG Corps insists that I interview all the relevant witnesses .
JO: The JAG Corps can be demanding that way . JESSEP smiles .
JESSEP: Jonanthan 'll take you out and show you what you wan na see , then we can all hook up for lunch , how does that sound ?
KAFFEE: Fine , sir .
KENDRICK: Yes .
KAFFEE: What 'd you guys talk about ?
KENDRICK: I told the men that there was an informer among us . And that despite any desire they might have to seek etribution , Private Santiago was not to be harmed in any way .
KAFFEE: What time was that meeting ?
KENDRICK: Sixteen-hundred . KAFFEE turns around and looks at SAM .
SAM: Four o'clock .
KAFFEE: Sam , somebody should see about getting this stuff to his parents . We do n't need it anymore .
KENDRICK: Actually , the uniforms belong to the marine corps . The LAWYERS take a moment .
KAFFEE: Lt. Kendrick can I call you Jon ?
KENDRICK: No , you may not .
KAFFEE: Have I done something to offend you ?
KENDRICK: No , I like all you Navy boys . Every time we 've got ta go someplace and fight , you fellas always give us a ide .
JO: Lt. Kendrick , do you think Santiago was murdered ?
KENDRICK: Commander , I believe in God , and in his son Jesus Christ , and because I do , I can say this Private Santiago is dead and that 's a tragedy . But he 's dead because he had no code . He 's dead because he had no honor . And God was watching . SAM turns to KAFFEE .
SAM: How do you feel about that theory ?
KAFFEE: Sounds good . Let 's move on .
JO: You planning on doing any investigating or are you just gon na take the guided tour ?
KAFFEE: I 'm pacing myself .
JESSEP: And they spent the next three hours running around , looking fo Americans to surrender to .
STEWARDS: That was delicious , men , thank you .
STEWARD: Our pleasure , sir .
KAFFEE: Colonel just need to ask you a couple of questions about August 6th .
JESSEP: Shoot .
KAFFEE: On the morning of the sixth , you were contacted by an NIS angent who said that Santiago had tipped him off to an illegal fenceline shooting .
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: Santiago was gon na reveal the person 's name in exchange for a transfer . An I getting this right ?
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: If you feel there are any details that I 'm missing , you should free to speak up .
JESSEP: Thank you .
KAFFEE: Now it was at this point that you called Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick into your office ?
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: And what happened then ?
JESSEP: We agreed that for his own safety , Santiago should be transferred off the base .
KAFFEE: Santiago was set to be transferred ?
JESSEP: On the first available flight to the states . Six the next morning . Three hours too late as it turned out . KAFFEE nods .
KAFFEE: Yeah . There 's silence for a moment .
KENDRICK: The corporal 's got the jeep outside , he 'll take you back to the airstrip .
KAFFEE: Thank you .
JO: Wait a minute , I 've got some questions .
KAFFEE: No you do n't .
JO: Yes I do .
KAFFEE: No you do n't .
JO: Colonel , on the morning that Santiago died , did you meet with Doctor Stone etween three and five ?
KAFFEE: Jo
JESSEP: Of course I met with the doctor . One of my men was dead .
KAFFEE: See ? The man was dead . Let 's go .
JO: I was wondering if you 've ever heard the term Code Red .
KAFFEE: Jo
JESSEP: I 've heard the term , yes .
JO: Colonel , this past February , you eceived a cautionary memo from the Naval Investigative Service , warning that the practice of enlisted men disciplining their own was n't to be condoned by officers .
JESSEP: I submit to you that whoever wrote that memo has never served on the working end of a Soviet-made Cuban Ml-Al6 Assault Rifle . However , the directive having come from the NIS , I gave it its due attention . What 's your point , Jo ?
KAFFEE: She has no point . She often has no point . It 's part of her charm . We 're outta here . Thank you .
JO: My point is that I think code reds still go on down here . Do Code Reds still happen on this base , colonel ?
KAFFEE: Jo , the colonel does n't need to answe that .
JO: Yes he does .
KAFFEE: No , he really does n't .
JO: Yeah , he really does . Colonel ?
JESSEP: You know it just hit me . She outranks you , Danny .
KAFFEE: Yes sir .
JESSEP: I want to tell you something Danny and listen up 'cause I mean this You 're the luckiest man in the world . There is , believe me gentlemen , nothing sexier on earth than a woman you have to salute in the morning . Promote 'em all I say .
JO: Colonel , the practice of code Reds is still condoned by officers on this base , is n't it ?
JESSEP: You see my problem is , of course , that I 'm a Colonel . I 'll just have to keep taking cold showers 'til they elect some gal President .
JO: I need an answer to my question , sir .
JESSEP: Take caution in your tone , Commander . I 'm a fair guy , but this fuckin ' heat 's making me absolutely crazy . You want to know about code reds ? On the record I tell you that I discourage the practice in accordance with the NIS directive . Off the record I tell you that it 's an invaluable part of close infantry training , and if it happens to go on without my knowledge , so be it . I run my base how I run my base . You want to investigate me , roll the dice and take your chances . I eat breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill me . So do n't fo one second think you 're gon na come down here , flash a badge , and make me nervous . A moment of tense silence before
KAFFEE: Let 's go . Colonel , I 'll just need a copy of Santiago 's transfer order .
JESSEP: What 's that ?
KAFFEE: Santiago 's transfer order . You guys have paper work on that kind of thing , I just need it for the file .
JESSEP: For the file .
KAFFEE: Yeah .
JESSEP: Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order . For the file . I 'm here to help anyway I can .
KAFFEE: Thank you .
JESSEP: You believe that , do n't you ? Danny ? That I 'm here to help anyway I can ?
KAFFEE: Of course .
JESSEP: The corporal 'll run you by Ordinance on your way out to the airstrip . You can have all the transfer orders you want .
KAFFEE: Let 's go . The LAWYERS start to leave .
JESSEP: But you have to ask me nicely .
KAFFEE: I beg your pardon ?
JESSEP: You have to ask me nicely . You see , Danny , I can deal with the bullets and the bombs and the blood . I can deal with the heat and the stress and the fear . I do n't want money and I do n't want medals . What I want is for you to stand there in that faggoty white uniform , and with your Harvard mouth , extend me some fuckin ' courtesy . You got ta ask me nicely .
KAFFEE: Colonel Jessep if it 's not too much trouble , I 'd like a copy of the transfer order . Sir . JESSEP smiles .
JESSEP: No problem . HOLD for a moment . JO 's very disappointed .
KAFFEE: Who is it ?
JO: Markinson resigned his commission .
KAFFEE: When ?
JO: This afternoon . Sometime after we left .
KAFFEE: I 'll talk to him in the morning .
JO: I already tried , I ca n't find him .
KAFFEE: You tried ? Joanne , you 're coming dangerously close to the textbook definition of interfering with a government investigation . JO hands KAFFEE the file she 's been holding .
JO: I 'm Louden Downey 's attorney .
KAFFEE: I suppose it 's way too much to hope that you 're just making this up to other me .
JO: Do n't worry , I 'm not gon na make a motion for separation , you 're still lead counsel . KAFFEE hands her back the file .
KAFFEE: Splendid .
JO: I think Kendrick ordered the Code Red . So do you .
DAWSON: Officer on deck , ten hut . KAFFEE starts in immediately .
KAFFEE: Did Kendrick order the code red ?
DAWSON: Sir ?
KAFFEE: Do n't say sir like I just asked you if you cleaned the latrine . You heard what I said . Did Lt. Kendrick orde you guys to give Santiago a code ed ?
DAWSON: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: Did he ?
DOWNEY: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: You mind telling me why the hell you never mentioned this before ?
DAWSON: You did n't ask us , sir .
KAFFEE: Cutie-pie shit 's not gon na win you a place in my heart , corporal , I get paid no matter how much time you spend in jail .
DAWSON: Yes sir . I know you do , sir .
KAFFEE: Fuck you , Harold .
JO: Alright . Let 's sort this out . There was a platoon meeting on August 6th at four in the afternoon . And Lt. Kendrick , he gave strict instructions that nothing was to happen to Santiago . Now is that true ? I want you to speak freely .
DAWSON: Ma'am , that 's correct . But then he dismissed the platoon and we all went to our rooms .
JO: And what happened then ?
DAWSON: Lt. Kendrick came to our room , ma'am .
KAFFEE: When ?
DAWSON: About five minutes after the meeting oke , sir . About 16 20 .
KAFFEE: And what happened then ?
DAWSON: Lt. Kendrick ordered us to give Santiago a Code Red .
KAFFEE: Jack ! But ROSS is into the game
ROSS: Hang on
KAFFEE: They were given an order .
JO: How long have you known about the order ?
ROSS: I did n't Who is this ?
KAFFEE: This is Jo Galloway she 's Downey 's lawyer . She 's very pleased to meet you .
ROSS: What exactly are you accusing me of , commander ?
JO: I 'm accusing you of They 're in the
KAFFEE: Jack did n't know about the order . Because if he did and he had n't told us , Jack knows he 'd be violating about 14 articles of the code of ethics . As it is , he 's got enough to worry about . God forbid our clients decide to plead not guilty and testify for the record that they were given an order .
ROSS: Kendrick specifically told the men not to touch Santiago .
KAFFEE: That 's right . And then he went into Dawson and Downey 's room and specifically told them to give him a code red .
ROSS: That 's not what Kendrick said .
KAFFEE: Kendrick 's lying .
ROSS: You have proof ?
KAFFEE: I have the defendants .
ROSS: And I have 23 marines who are n't accused of murder and a lieutenant with four letters of commendation .
KAFFEE: Why did Markinson resign his commission ?
ROSS: We 'll never know .
KAFFEE: You do n't think I can subpoena Markinson .
ROSS: You can try , but you wo n't find him . You know what Markinson did for the first 17 of his 21 years in the corps ? Counter Intelligence . Markinson 's gone . There is no Markinson .
KAFFEE: How much room ?
ROSS: I 'll knock it all down to assault . Two years . They 're home in six months .
JO: No deal , we 're going to a jury .
KAFFEE: Jo
ROSS: No you 're not .
JO: Why not ?
ROSS: 'Cause you 'll lose , and Danny knows it . And he knows that if we go to court , I 'll have to go all the way , they 'll be charged with the whole truckload . Murder , Conspiracy , Conduct Unbecoming , and even though he 's got me by the balls out here , Dan knows that in a courtroom , he loses this case . Danny 's an awfully talented lawyer , and he 's not about to send his clients go to jail for life when he knows they could be home in six months . This is now clear Ross is as good as Kaffee .
KAFFEE: Here 's the story The Goverment 's offering Assault and Conduct Unbecoming . Two years . You 'll be home in six months . DAWSON and DOWNEY say nothing .
DAWSON: I 'm afraid we ca n't do that , sir .
KAFFEE: Do what ?
DAWSON: Make a deal , sir .
KAFFEE: What are you talking about ?
DAWSON: We did nothing wrong , sir . We did our job . If that has consequences , then I accept them . But ' I wo n't say I 'm guilty , sir .
KAFFEE: Did you Did she put you up to this ?
JO: No .
DAWSON: We have a code , sir .
KAFFEE: Well zippity-doo-dah . You and you code plead not guilty and you 'll be in jail for the rest of your life . Do what I 'm telling you and you 'll e home in six months . DAWSON just stares at him .
DAWSON: Permission to
KAFFEE: Speak !
DAWSON: What do we do then , sir ?
KAFFEE: When ?
DAWSON: After six months . We 'd be dishonorably discharged , right sir ?
KAFFEE: Yes .
DAWSON: What do we do then , sir ? We joined the corps 'cause we wanted to live our lives by a certain code . And we found it in the corps . And now you 're asking us to sign a piece of pape that says we have no honor . You 're asking us to say we 're not marines . If a judge and jury decide that what we did was wrong , I 'll accept whateve punishment they give . But I believe I was riqht , sir . I believe I did my job . And I wo n't dishonor myself , my unit , or the Corps , so that I can qo home in six months . Sir . HOLD ON the four of them for a moment , then
KAFFEE: Commander , I want to talk to corporal Dawson alone for a minute .
JO: Let 's go in another room . Louden , everything 's gon na be alright .
KAFFEE: You do n't like me that much , do you ? Forget it , do n't answer that , it does n't matter .
DAWSON: Do you think we were right ?
KAFFEE: It does n't matter what I
DAWSON: Do you think we were right ? KAFFEE gets up .
KAFFEE: I think you 'd lose .
DAWSON: You 're such a coward , I ca n't believe they let you wear a uniform . KAFFEE stares at DAWSON .
KAFFEE: I 'm not gon na feel responsible fo this , Harold . I did everything I could . You 're going to Levenworth for the better part of your life , and you know what ? I do n't give a shit . KAFFEE calls out
SAM: You just make a motion tomorrow morning at the arraignment . The judge 'll ask you if you want to ente a plea . You tell him you want new counsel assigned .
KAFFEE: Then that 's that .
JO: Yeah . One thing , though . When you ask the judge for new counsel , Danny , e sure and ask nicely .
KAFFEE: What do you want from me ?
JO: I want you to let 'em be judged ! I want you to stand up and make an argument !
SAM: An argument that did n't work fo Calley at My Lai , an argument that did n't work for the Nazis at Nuremberg .
KAFFEE: For Christ sake , Sam , do you really think that 's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine orde that they never believed would result in harm ? These guys are n't the Nazis . There 's a pause in the room .
JO: Do n't look now , Danny , but you 're making an argument .
KAFFEE: Yeah . Tomorrow morning I 'll get them a new attorney .
JO: Why are you so afraid to be a lawyer ? Were daddy 's expectations really that high ?
KAFFEE: Please , spare me the psycho-babble father bullshit . Dawson and Downey 'll have their day in court , but they 'll have it with another lawyer .
JO: Another lawyer wo n't be good enough . They need you . You know how to win . You know they have a case . And you know how to win . You walk away from this now , and you have sealed thei fate .
KAFFEE: Their fate was sealed the moment Santiago died .
JO: Do you believe they have a defense ?
KAFFEE: You and Dawson both live in the same dreamland . It does n't matter what I elieve , it only matters what I can prove . So please do n't tell me what I know and do n't know . I know the law .
JO: You know nothing about the law . You 're a used car salesman , Daniel . You 're an ambulance chaser with a rank . You 're nothing . Live with that .
YUPPIE LAWYER: So I told duncan if we leverage the acquisition of Biotech , the interrogatories would be there on demand . All I have to do is not pick up the phone and it 'll run Flaherty ten thousand a day in court costs .
RANDOLPH: Where are we ?
KAFFEE: Yeah . They 're not guilty .
RANDOLPH: Enter a plea of not guilty for the defendants . We 'll adjourn until ten- hundred , three weeks from today , at which time this Court will reconvene as a General Court-Martial . He raps the gavel .
KAFFEE: Why does a junior grade with six months experience and a track record for plea bargaining get assigned a murder case ? Would it be so that it never sees the inside of a courtroom ?
JO: Yeah .
KAFFEE: So this is what a courtroom looks like . He walks out the door , and we
SAM: She said if Markinson does n't want to be found , we 're not gon na find him . She said I could be Markinson and you would n't know it .
KAFFEE: Are you Markinson ?
SAM: No .
KAFFEE: Well , I 'm not Markinson , that 's two down . SAM does n't laugh .
SAM: I was wondering , now that Joanne 's working on this I was wondering if you still need me .
KAFFEE: They were following an order , Sam .
SAM: An illegal order .
KAFFEE: You think Dawson and Downey know it was an illegal order ?
SAM: It does n't matter if they know , any decent human being would 've refused to
KAFFEE: They 're not permitted to question orders .
SAM: Then what 's the secret ? What are the magic words ? I give orders every day , and nobody follows them .
KAFFEE: We have softball games and marching ands . They work at a place where you have to wear camouflage or you might get shot . Sam looks away . He does n't buy it .
JO: I 've got medical reports and Chinese food . I say we eat first .
SAM: Did you get any dumplings ?
KAFFEE: This is our defense . Intent No one can prove there was poison on the aq . Code Red They 're common and accepted in Guantanamo Bay . The Order A ) Kendrick gave it . B ) They had no choice but to follow it . That 's it .
SAM: What about motive ?
KAFFEE: We 're a little weak on motive . They had one .
JO: Just because a person has a motive does n't mean
KAFFEE: Relax . We 'll deal with the fenceline shooting when it comes up . For now we start here I do n't know what made Santiago die , I do n't want to know . I just want to e able to show it could 've been something other than poison . Jo , talk to doctors . Find out everything there is to know about lactic acidosis . Let 's start prepping fo Stone .
JO: As long as we 're on the subject of the doctor
KAFFEE: Here we go .
JO: Listen to me , three o'clock he does n't know what killed Santiago , then he meets with Jessep , and at five o'clock he says it was poison ? The doctor 's covering up the truth .
KAFFEE: Oh , that 's a relief . I was afraid I would n't be able to use the `` Liar , Liar , Pants on Fire '' defense . We ca n't prove coercion ! ! Alright , fitness reports and biographical information .
SAM: Cartons 3 and 4 .
KAFFEE: No Cliff-Notes on these things ?
JO: Captain Hill , this is Lt. Commande Galloway , I 'm an internal affairs officer with the JAG Corps in Washington , D.C . I 'm trying to track down a Captain Matthew Andrew Markinson , USMC
KAFFEE: Doctor , other than the rope marks , was there any other sign of external damage ?
SAM: No .
KAFFEE: No scrapes ?
SAM: No .
KAFFEE: No cuts ?
JO: He resigned his commission a week ago Thursday .
KAFFEE: Bruises ? Broken bones ?
SAM: No .
JO: No , please do n't put me on hold
KAFFEE: Doctor , was there any sign of violence ?
SAM: You mean other than the dead body ?
KAFFEE: Fuck ! ! I walk into that every goddam time !
SAM: Do n't ask the last question .
KAFFEE: Lt. Kendrick , the type of disciplinary action , or `` training '' as you say
JO: Object .
KAFFEE: Please the Court , I maintain that nothing could be more relevant than what the defendants learned by the example of , among others , the witness .
JO: Nice .
DOWNEY: He ordered me and Corporal Dawson to give Willy a Code Red .
SAM: His answers still have to come faster , Jo . The Iowa farmboy thing 'll play for a while , but in the end it looks like he 's searching for the truth .
KAFFEE: He 's right , and from now on , `` Willy '' is Private Santiago . You start calling him Willy and all of a sudden he 's a person who 's got a mother who 's gon na miss him .
JO: Really !
KAFFEE: I was talking to Sam .
SAM: What time is it ?
KAFFEE: Time to go home . Try to get some sleep tonight .
JO: I 'll give you a ride .
KAFFEE: You 're a good man , Charlie Brown .
SAM: See you in court .
JO: Danny
KAFFEE: I know what you 're gon na say . You do n't have to . We 've had ou differences . I 've said some things I did n't mean , you 've said some things you did n't means but you 're happy that I stuck with the case . And if you 've gained a certain respect fo me over the last three weeks that you did n't have before , well , of course I 'm happy about that , but we do n't have to make a whole big deal out of it . You like me . I wo n't make you say it .
JO: I was just gon na tell you to wea matching socks tomorrow .
KAFFEE: Oh . Okay . Good tip .
JO: We 're ready .
KAFFEE: Bet your ass .
MAN: You 're gon na save our son , are n't you ?
KAFFEE: I 'll do my best .
JO: Danny , I want you to meet Ginny Miller , Louden 's aunt .
KAFFEE: You 're Aunt Ginny ?
GINNY: Uh-huh .
KAFFEE: I 'm sorry , I was expecting someone older .
GINNY: So was I .
KAFFEE: Last chance . I 'll flip you for it . RANDOLPH enters .
ROSS: Too late . KAFFEE walks back to his table as
KAFFEE: No objection .
RANDOLPH: Is the Government prepared to make an opening statement ?
ROSS: Yes sir . ROSS walks to the jury box .
RANDOLPH: Lt. Kaffee ?
KAFFEE: There was no poison on the rag and there was no intent to kill and any attempt to prove otherwise is futile ecause it just ai n't true . When Dawson and Downey went into Santiago 's room that night , it was n't ecause of vengeance or hatred , it was n't to kill or harm , and it was n't ecause they were looking for kicks on a Friday night . It 's because it was what they were ordered to do . Let me say that again It 's because it was what they were ordered to do . Now , out in the real world , that means nothing . And here at the Washington Navy Yard , it does n't mean a whole lot more . But if you 're a marine assigned to Rifle Security Company Windward , Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , and you 're given an order , you follow it or you pack your bags . Make no mistake about it , Harold Dawson and Louden Downey are sitting efore you in judgement today because they did their job .
RANDOLPH: Is the Government ready to call its first witness ?
ROSS: Please the Court , the Government calls Mr. R.C McGuire .
KAFFEE: How you doin ' ? DAWSON does n't change his expression .
ROSS: Mr. McGuire , would you state you full name and occupation for the ecord , please ?
MCGUIRE: Robert C. McGuire , Special Agent , Naval Investigative Service .
ROSS: Mr. McGuire , did your office receive a letter from PFC William Santiago on 3 August of this year ?
MCGUIRE: We did .
ROSS: What did the letter say ?
MCGUIRE: That a member of Private Santiago 's unit had illegally fired his weapon over the fenceline .
ROSS: Was that marine identified in the letter ?
MCGUIRE: No sir . I notified the barracks C.O. , Colonel Jessep , that I would be coming down to investigate .
ROSS: And what did you find ?
MCGUIRE: For the shift reported , only one sentry returned his weapon to the switch with a round of ammunition missing .
ROSS: And who was that ?
MCGUIRE: Lance Corporal Harold Dawson .
ROSS: Your witness . ROSS goes back to his table . KAFFEE stands .
KAFFEE: Mr. McGuire , have you questioned Corporal Dawson about the fenceline shooting ?
MCGUIRE: Yes . He claims to have been engaged in some manner by the enemy .
KAFFEE: But you do n't believe him .
MCGUIRE: It 's not my place
KAFFEE: Corporal Dawson 's been charged with a number of crimes , why was n't he charged with firing at the enemy without cause ?
MCGUIRE: There was n't enough evidence to support such a charge .
KAFFEE: Thank you . KAFFEE sits .
ROSS: Mr. McGuire , I do n't understand what you mean when you say there was n't enough evidence to support such a charge . You had Willy Santiago 's letter .
MCGUIRE: Santiago was the only witness , but I never had a chance to interview him . So I do n't know what he saw .
ROSS: And now we wo n't ever know , will we , Mr. McGuire ?
MCGUIRE: No .
ROSS: No more questions .
HAMMAKER: Corporal Carl Edward Hammaker , Marine Barracks , Rifle Security Company Windward , Second Platoon Charlie .
ROSS: Corporal , were you present at a meeting that Lt. Kendrick held on the afternoon of August 6th with the members of second platoon .
HAMMAKER: Yes sir .
ROSS: Would you tell the Court the substance of that meeting ?
HAMMAKER: Lt. Kendrick told us that we had an informer in our group . That Private Santiago had gone outside the chain of command and reported to the NIS on a member of our platoon .
ROSS: Did that make you mad ? You can tell the truth , corporal , it 's alright . Did it make you mad ?
HAMMAKER: Yes sir .
ROSS: How mad ?
HAMMAKER: Private Santiago betrayed a code that we believe in very deeply , sir .
ROSS: Were the other members of the squad angry ?
KAFFEE: Object
ROSS: Were Dawson and Downey ?
KAFFEE: Please the Court , is the judge advocate honestly asking this witness to testify as to how the defendant felt on August 6th ?
RANDOLPH: Sustained .
ROSS: Corporal , did Lt. Kendrick leave a standing order at that meeting ?
RANDOLPH: Yes sir .
ROSS: What was it ?
HAMMAKER: Well it was clear that he did n't want us to take matters into our own hands , sir .
ROSS: What was the order ?
HAMMAKER: Sir , he said that Santiago was n't to e touched .
ROSS: Your witness .
KAFFEE: Corporal Hammaker , were you in Dawson and Downey 's barracks room ten minutes after this meeting ?
HAMMAKER: No sir .
KAFFEE: Thanks , I have no more questions .
ROSS: The Government calls Corporal Raymond Thomas
KAFFEE: Please the Court , I understand Lt. Ross is planning on calling all the other members of Rifle Security Company Windward to testify .
ROSS: In light of the defense that Lt. Kaffee is planning to mount , the explicit instructions of the platoon leader seems particularly relevant testimony .
KAFFEE: The defense is willing to concede that all 23 witnesses will testify substantially as Corporal Hammake did , if the Government is willing to concede that none of them were in Dawson and Downey 's room at 16 20 on August 6th .
RANDOLPH: Lieutenant ?
ROSS: The Government 'll agree to the stipulation , sir .
RANDOLPH: Then we 'll adjourn for the day . You can call your next witness in the morning .
STONE: And he was pronounced dead at zero-zero-thirty-seven .
ROSS: Dr. Stone , what 's lactic acidosis ?
STONE: If the muscles and other cells of the body burn sugar instead of oxygen , lactic acid is produced . That lactic acid is what caused Santiago 's lungs to bleed .
ROSS: How long does it take for the muscles and other cells to begin burning oxygen instead of sugar ?
STONE: Twenty to thirty minutes .
ROSS: And what caused Santiago 's muscles and other cells to start burning sugar ?
STONE: An ingested poison of some kind .
KAFFEE: Your Honor , we object at this point . The witness is speculating .
ROSS: Commander Stone is an expert medical witness , in this courtroom his opinion is n't considered speculation .
KAFFEE: Commander Stone is an internist , not a criminologist , and the medical facts here are ultimately inconclusive .
RANDOLPH: A point which I 'm confident you 'll illustrate to the jury under cross- examination , so I 'm sure you wo n't mind if his opinion is admitted now .
KAFFEE: Not at all , sir . Objection withdrawn . KAFFEE sits .
ROSS: Doctor Stone , did Willy Santiago die of poisoning ?
STONE: Absolutely .
ROSS: Are you aware that the lab report and the coroners report showed no traces of poison ?
STONE: Yes I am .
ROSS: Then how do you justify
STONE: There are literally dozens of toxins which are virtually undetectable , oth in the human body and on a fabric . The nature of the acidosis is the compelling factor in this issue .
ROSS: Thank you , sir . KAFFEE gets up .
KAFFEE: Commander , you testified that it takes lactic acidosis 20 to 30 minutes efore it becomes lethal .
STONE: Yes .
KAFFEE: Let me ask you , is it possible for a person to have an affliction , some sort of condition , which might , in the case of this person , actually speed up the process of acidosis dramatically ? STONE says nothing for a moment .
STONE: Certainly .
KAFFEE: What might some of those conditions e ?
STONE: If a person had a coronary disorder or a cerebral disorder , the process would be more rapid .
KAFFEE: Commander , if I had a coronary condition , and a perfectly clean rag was placed in my mouth , and the rag was accidentally pushed too far down , is it possible that my cells would continue burning sugar after the rag was taken out ?
STONE: It would have to be a very serious condition .
KAFFEE: Is it possible to have a serious coronary condition , where the initial warning signals were so mild as to escape a physician during a routine medical exam ?
STONE: Possibly . There would still be symptoms though .
KAFFEE: What kind of symptoms ?
STONE: There are hundreds of symptoms of a
KAFFEE: Chest pains ?
STONE: Yes .
KAFFEE: Shortness of breath ?
STONE: Yes .
KAFFEE: Fatigue ?
STONE: Of course .
KAFFEE: Doctor , is this your signature ?
STONE: Yes it is .
KAFFEE: This in an order for Private Santiago to be put on restricted duty . Would you read your hand written remarks at the bottom of the page , please , sir .
STONE: `` Initial testing negative . Patient complains of chest pains , shortness of breath , and fatigue . Restricted from running distances over five miles for one week . ''
KAFFEE: Commander , is n't it possible that Santiago had a serious coronary condition , and it was that condition , and not some mysterious poison , that caused the accelerated chemical eaction ?
STONE: No . I personally give the men a physical examination every three months . And every three months Private Santiago got a clean bill of health .
KAFFEE: And that 's why it had to be , poison , ight , Commander ? 'Cause Lord knows , if you put a man with a serious coronary condition back on duty with a clean bill of health , and that man died from a heart related incident , you 'd have a lot to answer for , would n't you , doctor ?
ROSS: Object . Move to strike .
RANDOLPH: Sustained . Strike it .
KAFFEE: No more questions , judge . ROSS stands immediately .
ROSS: Dr. Stone , you 've held a license to practice medicine for 21 years , you are Board Certified in Internal Medicine , you are the Chief of Internal Medicine at a hospital which serves over 8000 men . In you professional opinion , was Willy Santiago poisoned ? Jo stands .
JO: Your Honor , we re-new our objection to Commander Stone 's testimony , and ask that it be stricken from the ecord . And we further ask that the Court instruct the jury to lend no weight to this witness 's testimony .
RANDOLPH: The objection 's overruled , counsel .
JO: Sir , the defense strenuously objects and requests a meeting in chambers so that his honor might have an opportunity to hear discussion before uling on the objection .
RANDOLPH: The objection of the defense has een heard and overruled .
JO: Exception .
RANDOLPH: Noted . The witness is an expert and the court will hear his opinion .
ROSS: Doctor , in your expert , professional opinion , was Willy Santiago poisoned ?
STONE: Yes .
ROSS: Thank you , sir , I have no more questions .
RANDOLPH: Commander , you may step down .
ROSS: Please the Court , while we reserve the right to call rebuttal witnesses if the need arises , the Government ests .
RANDOLPH: We 'll stand in recess until ten- hundred hours this Monday , the l9th at which time the defense will call it 's first witness . RANDOLPH raps his gavel .
SAM: I strenuously object ? Is that how it works ? Objection . Overruled . No , no , no , no , I strenuously object . Oh , well if you strenuously object , let me take a moment to reconsider .
JO: I got it on the record .
SAM: You also got it in the jury 's head that we 're afraid of the doctor . You object once so they can hear you say he 's not a criminologist . You keep after it and it looks like this great cross we did was just a bunch of fancy lawyer tricks . It 's the difference between paper law and trial
KAFFEE: Sam
SAM: Christ , you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert !
KAFFEE: Sam , she made a mistake . Let 's not elive it . There 's an uncomfortable silence .
SAM: I 'm gon na go call my wife . I 'll meet you tonight . Sam starts to leave . JO turns and says
JO: Why do you hate them so much ? Sam stops and turns around .
SAM: They beat up on a weakling , and that 's all they did . The rest is just smokefilled coffee-house crap . They tortured and tormented a weaker kid . They did n't like him . And they killed him . And why ? Because he could n't un very fast . A long silence . KAFFEE makes a decision .
KAFFEE: Alright . Everybody take the night off .
SAM: I apologize , I ,
KAFFEE: It 's alright . We 've been working 20 hour days for three and a half weeks straight . Take the night off . Go see your wife , see your daughter . Jo , do whatever it is you do when you 're not here . What day is tomorrow ?
SAM: Saturday .
KAFFEE: We 'll start at ten . KAFFEE picks up his stuff and walks out .
SAM: Why do you like them so much ?
JO: 'Cause they stand on a wall . And they say `` Nothing 's gon na hurt you tonight . Not on my watch . ''
SAM: Do n't worry about the doctor . This trial starts Monday .
JO: I 'm sorry to bother you , I should 've called first .
KAFFEE: No , I was just watching a baseball game .
JO: I was wondering if how you 'd feel about my taking you to dinner tonight .
KAFFEE: Jo , are you asking me out on a date ?
JO: No .
KAFFEE: It sounded like you were asking me out on a date .
JO: I was n't .
KAFFEE: I 've been asked out on dates before , and that 's what it sounded like .
JO: Do you like seafood ? I know a good seafood place .
KAFFEE: Nine weeks on a D and D ? What was the prosecutor offering ?
JO: 15 days .
KAFFEE: Well , you sure hustled the shit outta him .
JO: After that , they moved me to internal affairs .
KAFFEE: Tough to blame them .
JO: Where I 've earned two distinguished service medals and two letters of commendation .
KAFFEE: Why are you always giving me you esume ?
JO: Because I want you to think I 'm good lawyer .
KAFFEE: I do .
JO: No you do n't . I think you 're an exceptional lawyer . I watch the jurors , they respond to you , they like you . I see you convincing them . I think Dawson and Downey are gon na end up owing thei lives to you .
KAFFEE: Jo I think you have to prepare yourself for the fact that we 're gon na lose . Ross 's opening speech , it was all true . I mean , let 's pretend for a minute that it would actually matter to this jury that the guys were given an order . We ca n't prove it eve happened . We 'll keep doing what we 're doing , and we 'll put on a show , but at the end of the day , all we have is the testimony of two people accused of murder .
JO: We 'll find Markinson .
KAFFEE: Jo , we 're gon na lose . And we 're gon na lose huge .
HOWARD: Being late for platoon or company meetings , keeping his barracks in disorder , falling back on a run
KAFFEE: Have you ever received a code red ?
HOWARD: Yes sir . We were doing seven man assault drills , and my weapon slipped . It 's just cause it was over a hundred degrees and my palms were sweaty and I 'd forgot to use the resin like we were taught .
KAFFEE: And what happened ?
HOWARD: That night the guys in my squad threw a blanket over me and took turns punching me in the arm for five minutes . Then they poured glue on my hands . And it worked , too , 'cause I ai n't never dropped my weapon since .
KAFFEE: Was Private Santiago ever late fo platoon meetings ?
HOWARD: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: Was his barracks ever in disorder ?
HOWARD: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: Did he ever fall back on a run ?
HOWARD: All the time , sir .
KAFFEE: Did he ever , prior to the night of August 6th , receive a code red ?
HOWARD: No sir .
KAFFEE: Never ?
HOWARD: No , sir .
KAFFEE: You got a code red 'cause your palms were sweaty . Why did n't Santiago , this burden to his unit , ever get one ?
HOWARD: Dawson would n't allow it , sir .
KAFFEE: Dawson would n't allow it .
HOWARD: The guys talked tough about Santiago , ut they would n't go near him . They were too afraid of Dawson , sir .
ROSS: Object . The witness is characterizing .
KAFFEE: I 'll rephrase . Jeffrey , did you eve want to give Santiago a code red ?
HOWARD: Yes sir .
KAFFEE: Why did n't you ?
HOWARD: 'Cause Dawson 'd kick my butt , sir .
KAFFEE: Good enough . Lt. Ross is gon na ask you some questions now .
ROSS: Corporal Howard , I hold here The Marine Guide and General Information Handbook for New Recruits . Are you familiar with this book ?
HOWARD: Yes sir .
ROSS: Have you read it ?
HOWARD: Yes sir .
ROSS: Good . Would you turn to the chapter that deals with code reds , please .
HOWARD: Sir ?
ROSS: Just flip to the page in that book that discusses code reds .
HOWARD: Sir , you see , Code Red is a term we use it 's just used down at GITMO , sir . I do n't know if it actually ROSS has produced another book .
ROSS: We 're in luck , then . The Marine Corps Guide for Sentry Duty , NAVY BASE Guantanamo Bay , Cuba . I assume we 'll find the term code red and its definition in this book , am I correct ?
HOWARD: No sir .
ROSS: No ? Corporal Howard , I 'm a marine . Is their no book , no manual o pamphlet , no set of orders o egulations that let me know that , as a marine , one of my duties is to perform code reds ?
HOWARD: No sir . No books , sir .
ROSS: No further questions .
KAFFEE: Corporal , would you turn to the page in this book that says where the enlisted men 's mess hall is ?
HOWARD: Lt. Kaffee , that 's not in the book , sir .
KAFFEE: I do n't understand , how did you know where the enlisted men 's mess hall was if it 's not in this book ?
HOWARD: I guess I just followed the crowd at chow time , sir .
KAFFEE: No more questions . KAFFEE chucks the book back on ROSS 's desk .
RANDOLPH: Corporal Howard , you can step down .
HOWARD: Thank you , sir .
KAFFEE: Seven tonight , we 'll do a final Kendrick review . I want to slam- dunk this guy .
KAFFEE: Hey , Luther .
LUTHER: Admiral , how 's the big case goin ' ?
KAFFEE: Nose to the grindstone .
LUTHER: No flies on you .
KAFFEE: A rolling stone gathers no moss .
LUTHER: Yeah , well it ai n't over til the fat lady sings .
KAFFEE: Ai n't that the truth . Catch you tomorrow .
MARKINSON: You left the door unlocked .
KAFFEE: Scared the shit outta me .
MARKINSON: Drive .
KAFFEE: Are you aware you 're under subpoena ?
MARKINSON: Yes . I 'm also aware that the lives of two marines are in your hands . If there was something I could do about that , I would , but since I ca n't , all I can do is help you . Why do n't you drive , Lieutenant . KAFFEE begins driving down the street .
KAFFEE: What do you know ?
MARKINSON: I know everything .
KAFFEE: Was it a code red ?
MARKINSON: Yes .
KAFFEE: Did Kendrick give the order ?
MARKINSON: Yes .
KAFFEE: Did you witness it ?
MARKINSON: I did n't need to
KAFFEE: Did you witness it ? !
MARKINSON: No .
KAFFEE: Then how do you know ?
MARKINSON: I know .
KAFFEE: You know shit .
MARKINSON: He was never gon na be transferred off the base .
KAFFEE: We 've got the transfer order . It 's got your signature .
MARKINSON: I know . I signed it the morning you arrived in Cuba . Six days afte Santiago died . KAFFEE 's wheels are spinning . He 's pumped .
KAFFEE: I 'm gon na get you a deal . Some kind of immunity with the prosecutor . In about four days , you 're gon na appea as a witness for the defense , and you 're gon na tell the court exactly what you told me . Right now I 'm gon na check you into a motel , and we 're gon na start from the beginning .
MARKINSON: I do n't want a deal . And I do n't want immunity . KAFFEE shakes his head and laughs .
JO: Where is he ?
KAFFEE: The Route 23 Best Western . JO picks up the phone .
JO: I want him guarded .
KAFFEE: That 's probably a good idea .
JO: This is Lt . Commander Joanne Galloway . My clearance code is 411273 . KAFFEE is impressed . He turns to SAM
KAFFEE: Clearance code ?
JO: Thank you .
KAFFEE: I do n't have a clearance code . Do you have a
JO: It 's Jo Galloway . I need to secure a witness .
KAFFEE: He also said that Jessep 's lying about the transportation off the ase . Jessep said six the next morning was the first flight Santiago could 've left on , Markinson says there was a plane that left seven hours earlier . JO hangs up the phone .
JO: Damn .
KAFFEE: That was impressive . Did you hea what I just said about the flight ?
JO: Yes .
KAFFEE: Sam , when a plane takes off from a ase , there 's got ta be some kind of ecord kept , right ?
SAM: We need the Tower Chief 's Log fo
KAFFEE: Get it .
JO: We 're gon na win .
KAFFEE: Jo , do n't get crazy about this . We do n't know who Markinson is . We do n't know what the log book 's gon na say . You just concentrate on Downey . I 'm gon na talk to Ross and tell him where we are .
JO: `` Kaffee 's got his case now , Kaffee 's got his case now . ''
KAFFEE: You are like seven of the strangest women I have ever met .
ROSS: That was nice work today . The redirect on Howard .
KAFFEE: I have Markinson . ROSS only takes a moment digest this .
ROSS: Where is he ?
KAFFEE: A motel room in Arlington with 14 Federal Marshals outside his door . Take a sip of your drink .
ROSS: Damn .
KAFFEE: The transfer order that Parkinson signed is phoney . And Jessep 's statement that the six a.m. flight was the first available is a lie , we 're checking the tower chief 's log . But in the meantime I 'm gon na put the Apostle Jon Kendrick on the stand and see if we ca n't have a little fun .
ROSS: I have an obligation to tell you that if you accuse Kendrick or Jessep of any crime without proper evidence , you 'll be subject to Court-Martial for professional misconduct . And that 's something that 'll be stapled to every job application you eve fill out . Markinson 's not gon na hold up , he 's a crazy man . I 'm not saying this to intimidate you . I 'm being your lawyer .
KAFFEE: Thanks , Jack . And I wan na tell you that I think the whole fuckin ' bunch of you are certifiably insane . And this code of honor of yours makes me wan na beat the shit outta something .
ROSS: Do n't you dare lump me in with Jessep and Markinson and Kendrick because we wear the same uniform . I 'm you friend , Danny , and I 'm telling you , I do n't think your clients belong in jail . But I do n't get to make that decision . I represent the Government of the United States . Without passion or prejudice . And my client has a case . I want you to acknowledge that the judge advocate has made you aware of the possible consequences involved in accusing a marine officer of a felony without proper evidence .
KAFFEE: I 've been so advised .
ROSS: You got bullied into that courtroom , Danny . By everyone . By Dawson , by Galloway , shit , I practically dared you . Not for a second have you elieved you could win . You got ullied into that room by the memory of a dead lawyer .
KAFFEE: You 're a lousy softball player , Jack .
ROSS: Your boys are going down . I ca n't stop it anymore .
KAFFEE: Batter up , J.J .
KENDRICK: I 'd say he was about average .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant , you signed three fitness eports on Santiago . On all three eports you indicated a rating of Below Average .
KENDRICK: Yes . Private Santiago was Below Average I did n't see the need in trampling on a man 's grave .
KAFFEE: We appreciate that , but you 're unde oath now , and I think unpleasant as it may be , we 'd all just as soon hear the truth .
KENDRICK: I 'm aware of my oath . KAFFEE 's handed some more files .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant , these are the last three fitness reports you signed for Lance Corporal Dawson and PFC Downey . Downey eceived three straight marks of Exceptional . Dawson received two marks of Exceptional , but on this most recent report , dated June 9th of this year , he received a rating of Below Average . It 's this last eport that I 'd like to discuss fo a moment .
KENDRICK: That 's fine .
KAFFEE: Lance Corporal Dawson 's ranking afte Infantry Training School was perfect . Records indicate that over half that class has since been promoted to full corporal , while Dawson has emained a lance corporal . Was Dawson 's promotion held up because of this last fitness report .
KENDRICK: I 'm sure it was .
KAFFEE: Do you recall why Dawson was given such a poor grade on this report ?
KENDRICK: I 'm sure I do n't . I have many men in my charge , Lieutenant , I write many fitness reports .
KAFFEE: Do you recall an incident involving a PFC Curtis Barnes who 'd been found stealing liquor from the Officer 's Club ?
KENDRICK: Yes .
KAFFEE: Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities ?
KENDRICK: I have two books at my bedside , Lieutenant , the Marine Code of Conduct and the King James Bible . The only proper authorities I 'm aware of are my Commanding Officer , Colonel Nathan R. Jessep and the Lord our God .
KAFFEE: Lt. Kendrick , at your request , I can have the record reflect your lack of acknowledgment of this court as a proper authority .
ROSS: Objection . Argumentative .
RANDOLPH: Sustained . Watch yourself , counselor .
KAFFEE: Did you report Private Barnes to your superiors ?
KENDRICK: I remember thinking very highly of Private Barnes , and not wanting to see his record tarnished by a formal charge .
KAFFEE: You preferred it to be handled within the unit .
KENDRICK: I most certainly did .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant , do you know what a Code Red is ?
KENDRICK: Yes I do .
KAFFEE: Have you ever ordered a code red ?
KENDRICK: No , I have not .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant , did you order Dawson and two other men to make sure that Private Barnes receive no food o drink except water for a period of seven days ?
KENDRICK: That 's a distortion of the truth . Private Barnes was placed on barracks estriction . He was given water and vitamin supplements , and I assure you that at no time was his health in danger .
KAFFEE: I 'm sure it was lovely for Private Barnes , but you did order the barracks estriction , did n't you ? And you did order the denial of food .
KENDRICK: Yes .
KAFFEE: Would n't this form of discipline be considered a code red ?
KENDRICK: Not necessarily .
KAFFEE: If I called the other 8000 men at Guantanamo Bay to testify , would they consider it a Code Red ?
ROSS: Please the court , the witness ca n't possibly testify as to what 8000 other men would say . We object to this entire line of questioning as argumentative and irrelevant badgering of the witness .
RANDOLPH: The Government 's objection is sustained , Lt. Kaffee , and I would emind you that you 're now questioning marine officer with an impeccable service record .
ROSS: Thank you judge .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant , was Dawson given a rating of Below Average on this last fitness eport because you learned held been sneaking food to Private Barnes ? Not so fast . Lieutenant ?
KENDRICK: Corporal Dawson was found to be Below Average because he committed a crime .
KAFFEE: What crime did he commit ? Lieutenant Kendrick ? Dawson brought a hungry guy some food . What crime did he commit ?
KENDRICK: He disobeyed an order .
KAFFEE: And because he did , because he exercised his own set of values , ecause he made a decision about the welfare of a marine that was in conflict with an order of yours , he was punished , is that right ?
KENDRICK: Corporal Dawson disobeyed an order .
KAFFEE: Yeah , but it was n't a order , was it ? After all , it 's peacetime . He was n't eing asked to secure a hill o advance on a beachhead . I mean , surely a marine of Dawson 's intelligence can be trusted to determine on his own , which are the really important orders , and which orders might , say , e morally questionable . Lt. Kendrick ? Can he ? Can Corporal Dawson determine on his own which orders he 's gon na follow ?
KENDRICK: No , he can not .
KAFFEE: A lesson he learned after the Curtis Barnes incident , am I right ?
KENDRICK: I would think so .
KAFFEE: You know so , do n't you , Lieutenant .
ROSS: Object !
RANDOLPH: Sustained .
KAFFEE: Lieutenant Kendrick , one final question if you ordered Dawson to give Santiago a code red
ROSS: please the court
KENDRICK: I told those men not to touch Santiago .
KAFFEE: is it reasonable to think that he would 've disobeyed you again ?
ROSS: Lieutenant , do n't answer that .
KAFFEE: You do n't have to , I 'm through . ROSS does n't even wait before he says
ROSS: Lieutenant Kendrick , did you orde Corporal Dawson and Private Downey to give Willy Santiaga code red ?
KENDRICK: No I did not .
ROSS: Thank you .
KAFFEE: What 's the word ?
SAM: This is the tower chief 's log fo that night . Jessep was telling the truth . The six a.m. flight was the first plane out . KAFFEE lets the ball drop out of his hands .
KAFFEE: Let me see that .
AGENT #1: Workin ' late , lieutenant ?
KAFFEE: There was no flight out at eleven o'clock . What the fuck are you trying to pull ?
MARKINSON: The first flight stateside left Guantanamo Bay at eleven and arrived at Andrews Airforce Base , Maryland , at a few minutes past two .
KAFFEE: Then why the hell is n't it listed in the Tower Chief 's log ? !
MARKINSON: Why the hell did you think it would e ? ! !
KAFFEE: What are you telling me ? He fixed the log book ? Setback . Big setback .
MARKINSON: Nathan Jessep is about to be named Director of Operations for the National Security Council . You do n't get to that position without knowing how to side-step a few land mines . And putting me on the stand is n't gon na make him step on one . KAFFEE stares at him .
KAFFEE: You 're taking the stand . Thursday . KAFFEE leaves . HOLD on MARKINSON .
SAM: Do you have any idea how many planes take off and land every day ? A kid from the ground crew is n't gon na emember a flight that landed fou weeks ago .
KAFFEE: Forget the flight . We 'll put Markinson on the stand and we 'll deal with Jessep 's refusal to transfer Santiago and he 'll testify to the forged transfer order . That 'll be enough . That and Downey 's testimony really oughta be enough .
JO: Private Downey , why did you go into Santiago 's room on the night of the 6th ?
DOWNEY: To give Private Santiago a Code Red , ma'am .
JO: And why did you give him a Code Red ?
DOWNEY: I was ordered to give him a Code Red y the Executive officer for Rifle Security Company Windward , Lieutenent Jonathan James Kendrick . JO smiles .
JO: You 're gon na do fine . DOWNEY smiles .
DOWNEY: You think they 'll let us go back to our platoon soon , ma'am ?
JO: Absolutely .
KAFFEE: Yes .
JO: Are you sure ?
KAFFEE: Yes .
JO: And you 'll use small words ?
KAFFEE: Yes .
JO: He gets rattled when he does n't understand something .
KAFFEE: Jo
JO: I 'm just saying go slow .
KAFFEE: I 'm gon na go slow .
JO: Okay .
KAFFEE: Alright .
JO: And get him off as fast as you can .
KAFFEE: Joanne !
JO: What ?
KAFFEE: He 's gon na be fine .
DOWNEY: A code red was ordered by my platoon commander , Lt. Jonathan James Kendrick .
KAFFEE: Thank you . Your witness .
ROSS: Private , for the week of 2 August , the switch log has you down at Post 39 , is that correct ?
DOWNEY: I 'm sure it is , sir , they keep that log pretty good .
ROSS: How far is it from Post 39 to the Windward barracks ?
DOWNEY: It 's a ways , sir , it 's a hike .
ROSS: About how far by jeep ?
DOWNEY: About ten , fifteen minutes , sir .
ROSS: Have you ever had to walk it ?
DOWNEY: Yes sir . That day , sir . Friday . The Pick-up Private sir , that 's what we call the fella who drops us at our posts and picks us up also , 'cause he can get girls in New York City the Pick-up Private got a flat
ROSS: And if it 's ten or fifteen minutes y jeep , I 'm guessing it must be a good hour by foot , am I right ?
DOWNEY: Pick-up and me did it in 45 flat , sir .
ROSS: Not bad . Now you say your assault on Private Santiago was the result of an order that Lt. Kendrick gave in your barracks room at 16 20 .
DOWNEY: Yes sir . JO . Helpless . Panicked .
ROSS: But you just said that you did n't make it back to Windward Barracks until 16 45 .
DOWNEY: Sir ?
ROSS: If you did n't make it back to you arracks until 16 45 , then how could you be in your room at 16 20 ?
DOWNEY: You see sir , there was a flat tire .
ROSS: Private , did you ever actually hea Lt. Kendrick order a Code Red ?
DOWNEY: No , sir . Jo leaps to her feet .
JO: Please the court , I 'd like to request a recess in order to confer with my client .
ROSS: Why did you go into Santiago 's room ?
JO: The witness has rights .
ROSS: The witness has been read his rights , commander .
DOWNEY: Hal ?
RANDOLPH: The question will be repeated .
ROSS: Why did you go into Santiago 's room ?
JO: Your honor
DOWNEY: Hal ?
ROSS: Did Corporal Dawson tell you to do it ? Everyone is frozen .
DOWNEY: Hal ?
ROSS: Do n't look at him .
DOWNEY: Hal ?
DAWSON: Private . Answer the Lieutenant 's question .
DOWNEY: Yes , Lieutenant . I was given an orde y my squad leader , Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps . And I followed it .
JO: Where do you think he is ?
KAFFEE: Do n't worry about it .
JO: Sam and I were just talking about how all we really have to do is call some witnesses who 'll talk about implied orders or maybe we put Downey back on the stand before we get to Dawson .
KAFFEE: Maybe if we work at it we can get Dawson charged with the Kennedy assassination . JO studies KAFFEE for a moment .
JO: Are you drunk ?
KAFFEE: Pretty much . Yeah .
JO: I 'll make a pot of coffee . We have a long night 's work ahead .
KAFFEE: She 's gon na make coffee . That 's nice . He was n't in his room . He was n't even there . That was an important piece of information , do n't you think ?
JO: Danny , it was just a setback . I 'm sorry . But we 'll fix it and then move on to Markinson .
KAFFEE: Markinson 's dead . JO and SAM are frozen .
JO: I still think we can win .
KAFFEE: Then maybe you should drink a little .
JO: Look , we 'll go to Randolph in the morning and make a motion for a continuance . 24 hours .
KAFFEE: Why would we want to do that ?
JO: To subpoena Colonel Jessep .
KAFFEE: What ?
JO: Listen for a second
KAFFEE: No .
JO: Just hear me out
KAFFEE: No . I wo n't listen to you and I wo n't hear you out . Your passion is comforting , Jo . It 's also useless . Private Downey needed a trial lawye today .
JO: You chicken-shit . You 're gon na use what happened today as an excuse to give up .
KAFFEE: It 's over !
JO: Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order ?
KAFFEE: What are you
JO: In Cuba . Why did you ask Jessep fo the transfer order ?
KAFFEE: What does it matter
JO: Why ? !
KAFFEE: I wanted the damn transfer order !
JO: Bullshit ! You could 've gotten it by picking up the phone and calling any one of a dozen departments at the Pentagon . You did n't want the transfe order . You wanted to see Jessep 's eaction when you asked for the transfer order . You had an instinct . And it was confirmed by Markinson . Now damnit , let 's put Jessep on the stand and end this thing !
KAFFEE: What possible good could come from putting Jessep on the stand ?
JO: He told Kendrick to order the Code Red .
KAFFEE: He did ? ! Why did n't you say so ! ? That 's qreat ! And of course you have proof of that .
KAFFEE: Ah , I keep forgetting You were sick the day they taught law at law school .
JO: You put him on the stand and you get it from him !
KAFFEE: Yes . No problem . We get it from him . Colonel , is n't it true that you ordered the Code Red on Santiago ?
SAM: Look , we 're all a little
KAFFEE: I 'm sorry , your time 's run out . What do we have for the losers , Judge ? Well , for our defendants it 's a lifetime at exotic Fort Levenworth . And for defense counsel Kaffee ? That 's ight it 's a court martial . Yes , Johnny , after falsely accusing a marine officer of conspiracy , Lt. Kaffee will have a long and prosperous career teaching typewriter maintenance at the Rocco Columbo School for Women . Thank you for playing `` Should We o Should-We-Not Follow the Advice of the Galacticly Stupid '' .
JO: I 'm sorry I lost you your set of steak knives .
KAFFEE: Stop cleaning up . But Sam continues .
SAM: Yeah . SAM takes a swig from the bottle .
KAFFEE: Is your father proud of you ?
SAM: Do n't do this to yourself .
KAFFEE: I 'll bet he is . I 'll bet he bores the shit outta the neighbors and the elatives . `` Sam , made Law Review . He 's got a big case he 's making He 's arguing making an argument . '' I think my father would 've enjoyed seeing me graduate from law school . I think he would 've liked that an awful lot .
SAM: Did I ever tell you that I wrote a paper on your father in college ?
KAFFEE: Yeah ?
SAM: He was one of the best trial lawyers ever .
KAFFEE: Yes he was .
SAM: And if I were Dawson and Downey and I had a choice between you or you father to represent me in this case , I 'd take you any day of the week and twice on Sunday . You should have seen yourself thunder away at Kendrick .
KAFFEE: Would you put Jessep on the stand ?
SAM: No .
KAFFEE: You think my father would 've ?
SAM: With the evidence we 've got ? Not in a million years . But here 's the thing and there 's really no way of getting around this neither Lionel Kaffee nor Sam Weinberg are lead counsel for the defense in the matter of U.S. versus Dawson and Downey . So there 's only one question . What would you do ? We HOLD on the two of them for a moment , then
KAFFEE: Joanne .
JO: I say we hit him with the phoney transfer order .
SAM: What 's the transfer order without a witness ?
KAFFEE: We have a witness .
SAM: A dead witness .
KAFFEE: And in the hands of a lesser attorney , that 'd be a problem .
SAM: Look at this . Last night he was swimming in his Jack Daniels , now he can leap tall buildings in a single ound .
KAFFEE: I 'm getting my second wind . Siddown . Both of you .
SAM: And you think you can got him to just say it ?
KAFFEE: I think he wants to say it . I think he 's pissed off that he 's got ta hide from us . I think he wants to say that he made a command decision and that 's the end of it . He eats eakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill him , and no one 's gon na tell him how to un his base . Least of all the pushy oad , the smart Jew , and the Harvard clown . I need to shake him and put him on the defensive . SAM and JO are silent for a moment .
SAM: That 's it ? That 's the plan ?
KAFFEE: That 's the plan .
SAM: You 're gon na trip Jessep and he 's gon na confess .
KAFFEE: I 'm not gon na trip him . I 'm gon na lead him right where he 's dying to go .
SAM: And how are you gon na do that ?
KAFFEE: I have no idea . I need my bat .
JO: What ?
KAFFEE: I need my bat . I think better with my bat . Where 's my bat ?
JO: I put it in the closet .
KAFFEE: You put it in the closet . KAFFEE heads to the closet .
JO: I was tripping over it .
KAFFEE: Stay here , I 'm going to the office for a while . KAFFEE storms out .
SAM: Boy , he does think better with that at .
KAFFEE: Sam . I need you to do something .
JO: What 's goin ' on ?
SAM: I 've got ta go out to Andrews .
KAFFEE: Is Sam here ?
JO: Not yet .
KAFFEE: Where is he ?
JO: He 's on his way .
KAFFEE: Did he got the guys ?
JO: Yes . Listen , can I talk to you for a second ?
KAFFEE: I think he 's gon na have his hands full today .
JO: Listen . Danny . When you 're out there . If it 's not gon na happen he 's not gon na say it do n't go for it . KAFFEE looks at her .
KAFFEE: Why Lt . Commander Galloway are you suggesting I back off a material witness ?
JO: If you think you ca n't get him . Yeah .
KAFFEE: Do you think I can get him ?
JO: I think it does n't matter what I think . I 'm an administrator . I ca n't seem to defend people .
KAFFEE: You 're my hero , Joanne . From the first day , you were a lawyer . Live with that .
RANDOLPH: Call your witness .
KAFFEE: Where 's Sam ?
JO: He 'll be here .
RANDOLPH: Lieutenant , call your witness .
KAFFEE: Defense calls Colonel Nathan Jessep .
ROSS: Colonel , do you solemnly swear that the testimony you will give in this General Court-Martial will be the truth , the whole truth , and nothing ut the truth so help you God ?
JESSEP: Yes I do .
ROSS: Would you state your name , rank , and current billet for the record please , air ?
JESSEP: Colonel Nathan R. Jessep , Commanding officer , Marine Ground Forces , Guantanamo Bay , Cuba .
ROSS: Thank you , sir , would you have a seat , please . JESSEP sits .
KAFFEE: Colonel , when you learned of Santiago 's letter to the NIS , you had a meeting with your two senio officers , is that right ?
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: The Executive Officer , Lt. Jonathan Kendrick , and the Company Commander , Captain Matthew Markinson .
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: And at present , Captain Markinson is dead , is that right ?
ROSS: Objection . I 'd like to know just what defense counsel is implying ?
KAFFEE: I 'm implying simply that , at present , Captain Markinson is not alive .
ROSS: Surely Colonel Jessep does n't need to appear in this courtroom to confirm that information .
KAFFEE: I just was n't sure if the witness was aware that two days ago , Captain Markinson took his own life with a .45 caliber pistol .
JESSEP: I told Kendrick to tell his men that Santiago was n't to be touched .
KAFFEE: And did you give an order to Captain Markinson as well ?
JESSEP: I ordered Markinson to have Santiago transferred off the base immediately .
KAFFEE: Why ?
JESSEP: I felt that his life might be in danger once word of the letter got out .
KAFFEE: Grave danger ?
JESSEP: Is there another kind ? KAFFEE holds up a document from his table .
KAFFEE: We have the transfer order that you and Markinson co-signed , ordering that Santiago be lifted on a flight leaving Guantanamo at six the next morning . Was that the first flight off the bass ?
JESSEP: The six a.m. flight was the first flight off the base . KAFFEE nods and decides to move on .
KAFFEE: Colonel , you flew up to Washington early this morning , is that right ?
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: I notice you 're wearing your Class A appearance in dress uniform for court today .
JESSEP: As are you , Lieutenant .
KAFFEE: Did you wear that uniform on the plane ?
ROSS: Please the Court , is this dialogue elevant to anything in particular ?
KAFFEE: The defense did n't have an opportunity to depose this witness , your honor . I 'd ask the Court for a little latitude .
RANDOLPH: A very little latitude .
KAFFEE: Colonel ?
JESSEP: I wore fatigues on the plane .
KAFFEE: And you brought your dress uniform with you .
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: And a toothbrush ? A shaving kit ? Change of underwear ?
ROSS: Your honor .
KAFFEE: Is the Colonel 's underwear a matte of national security ?
RANDOLPH: Gentlemen . You better get somewhere fast with this , Lieutenant .
KAFFEE: Yes sir . Colonel ?
JESSEP: I brought a change of clothes and some personal items .
KAFFEE: Thank you . KAFFEE gets a document from his table .
ROSS: Please the Court , is there a question anywhere in our future ?
RANDOLPH: Lt. Kaffee , I have to
KAFFEE: I 'm wondering why Santiago was n't packed . That landed . On the JURY , RANDOLPH , ROSS
JESSEP: I called Colonel Fitzhuqhes in Quantico , Va . I wanted to let him know I 'd be in town . The second call was to set up a meeting with Congressman Ramond of the House Armed Services Committee , and the third call was to my sister Elizabeth .
KAFFEE: Why did you make that call , sir ?
JESSEP: I thought she might like to have dinner tonight .
ROSS: Judge
RANDOLPH: I 'm gon na put a stop to this now .
KAFFEE: Your honor , these are the telephone ecords from GITMO for August 6th . And these are 14 letters that Santiago wrote in nine months requesting , in fact begging , for a transfer . Upon hearing the news that he was finally getting his transfer , Santiago was so excited , that do you know how many people he called ? Zero . Nobody . Not one call to his parents saying he was coming home . Not one call to a friend saying can you pick me up at the airport . He was asleep in his ed at midnight , and according to you he was getting on a plane in six hours , yet everything he owned was hanging neatly in his closet and folded neatly in his footlocker . You were leaving for one day and you packed a bag and made three phone calls . Santiago was leaving for the est of his life , and he had n't called a soul and he had n't packed a thing . Can you explain that ? The fact is there was no transfer order . Santiago was n't going anywhere , is n't that ight , Colonel .
ROSS: Object . Your Honor , it 's obvious that Lt. Kaffee 's intention this morning is to smear a high ranking marine officer in the desperate hope that the mere appearance of impropriety will win him points with the jury . It 's my recommendation , sir , that Lt. Kaffee receive an official reprimand from the bench , and that the witness be excused with the Court 's deepest apologies . RANDOLPH ponders this a moment .
RANDOLPH: Overruled .
ROSS: Your honor
RANDOLPH: The objection 's noted .
KAFFEE: Colonel ? Jessep 's smiling
JESSEP: No . It 's not . It 's tragic .
KAFFEE: Do you have an answer ?
JESSEP: Absolutely . My answer is I do n't have the first damn clue . Maybe he was an early morning riser and he liked to pack in the nq . And maybe he did n't have any friends . I 'm an educated man , but I 'm afraid I ca n't speak intelligently about the travel habits of William Santiago . What I do know is that he was set to leave the base at 0600 . Now are these really the questions I was called here to answer ? Phone calls and footlockers ? Please tell me you 've got something more , Lieutenant . Please tell me there 's an ace up your sleeve . These two marines are on trial for thei lives . Please tell me their lawye has n't pinned their hopes to a phone ill. Do you have any other questions fo me , counselor ?
RANDOLPH: Lt. Kaffee ?
JESSEP: Thanks , Danny . I love Washington .
KAFFEE: Excuse me , I did n't dismiss you . JESSEP turns around .
JESSEP: I beg your pardon .
KAFFEE: I 'm not through with my examination . Sit down .
JESSEP: Colonel .
KAFFEE: What 's that ?
JESSEP: I 'd appreciate it if he addressed me as Colonel or Sir . I believe I 've earned it .
RANDOLPH: Defense counsel will address the witness as Colonel or Sir .
JESSEP: I do n't know what the hell kind of an outfit you 're running here .
RANDOLPH: And the witness will address this Court as Judge or Your Honor . I 'm quite certain I 've earned it . Take your seat , Colonel . Jessep goes back to the stand .
JESSEP: What would you like to discuss now ! My favorite color ?
KAFFEE: Colonel , the six a.m. flight , was the first one off the base ?
JESSEP: Yes .
KAFFEE: There was n't a flight that left seven hours earlier and landed at Andrews Airforce Base at 2 a.m. ?
RANDOLPH: Lieutenant , I think we 've covered this , have n't we ?
KAFFEE: Your Honor , these are the Towe Chief 's Logs for both Guantanamo Bay and Andrews Airforce Base . The Guantanamo log lists no flight that left at eleven p.m. , and the Andrews log lists no flight that landed at 2 a.m . I 'd like to admit them as Defense Exhibits `` A '' and `` B '' .
RANDOLPH: I do n't understand . You 're admitting evidence of a flight that neve existed ?
KAFFEE: We believe it did , sir . Defense 'll be calling Airman Cecil O'Malley and Airman Anthony Perez . They were working the ground crew at Andrews at two a.m. on the seventh .
ROSS: Your Honor , these men were n't on the list . Rebuttal witnesses , Your Honor , called specifically to refute testimony offered under direct examination .
RANDOLPH: I 'll allow the witnesses .
JESSEP: This is ridiculous .
KAFFEE: Colonel , a moment ago
JESSEP: Check the Tower Logs for christ 's sake .
KAFFEE: We 'll get to the airmen in just a minute , sir . A moment ago said that you ordered Kendrick to order his men not to touch Santiago .
JESSEP: That 's right .
KAFFEE: And Kendrick was clear on what you wanted ?
JESSEP: Crystal .
KAFFEE: Any chance Kendrick ignored the order ?
JESSEP: Ignored the order ?
KAFFEE: Any chance he just forgot about it ?
JESSEP: No .
KAFFEE: Any chance Kendrick left your office and said , `` The 'old man 's wrong '' ?
JESSEP: No .
KAFFEE: When Kendrick spoke to the platoon and ordered them not to touch Santiago , any chance they ignored him ?
JESSEP: Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit , son ?
KAFFEE: No sir .
JESSEP: Ever served in a forward area ?
KAFFEE: No sir .
JESSEP: Ever put your life in another man 's hands , ask him to put his life in yours ?
KAFFEE: No sir .
JESSEP: We follow orders , son . We follow orders or people die . It 's that simple . Are we clear ?
KAFFEE: Yes sir .
JESSEP: Are we clear ?
KAFFEE: Crystal .
JESSEP: Private Santiago was a sub-standard marine . He was being transferred off the base because
KAFFEE: But that 's not what you said . You said he was being transferred because he was in grave danger .
JESSEP: Yes . That 's correct , but
KAFFEE: You said , `` He was in danger '' . I said , `` Grave danger '' . You said
JESSEP: Yes , I recall what
KAFFEE: I can have the Court Reporter read ack your
JESSEP: I know what I said . I do n't need it ead back to me like I 'm a damn
KAFFEE: Then why the two orders ? Colonel ? Why did you
JESSEP: Sometimes men take matters into thei own hands .
KAFFEE: No sir . You made it clear just a moment ago that your men never take matters into their own hands . You men follow orders or people die . So Santiago should n't have been in any danger at all , should he have , Colonel ? Everyone 's sweating now . Everyone but KAFFEE .
JESSEP: You little bastard .
ROSS: Your Honor , I have to ask for a recess to
KAFFEE: I 'd like an answer to the question , Judge .
RANDOLPH: The Court 'll wait for answer .
KAFFEE: If Kendrick told his men that Santiago was n't to be touched , then why did he have to be transferred ? Jessep is looking at O'MALLEY and PEREZ .
ROSS: Object !
RANDOLPH: Counsel .
KAFFEE: And when it went bad , you cut these guys loose .
ROSS: Your Honor
RANDOLPH: That 'll be all , counsel .
KAFFEE: You had Markinson sign a phony transfer order
ROSS: Judge
KAFFEE: You doctored the log books .
ROSS: Damnit Kaffee ! !
KAFFEE: I 'll ask for the forth time . You ordered
JESSEP: You want answers ?
KAFFEE: I think I 'm entitled to them .
JESSEP: You want answers ? !
KAFFEE: I want the truth .
JESSEP: You ca n't handle the truth ! And nobody moves .
KAFFEE: Did you order the code red ?
JESSEP: I did the job you sent me to do .
KAFFEE: Did you order the code red ?
JESSEP: You 're goddamn right I did .
KAFFEE: Please the court , I suggest the jury e dismissed so that we can move to an immediate Article 39a Session . The witness has rights . Silence . RANDOLPH looks to ROSS .
RANDOLPH: Lt. Ross ? ROSS is frozen . He does n't know what to do .
KAFFEE: Jack .
RANDOLPH: The Sergeant at Arms will take the jury to an ante-room where you 'll wait until further instruction .
JESSEP: What the hell 's going on ?
RANDOLPH: M.P . 's , guard the prisoner .
ROSS: Guard the prisoner .
JESSEP: What the hell
ROSS: Colonel Jessep , you have the right to remain silent . Any statement you do make can be used against you in a trial by court-martial or othe judicial or administrative proceeding . You have the right
JESSEP: I 'm being charged with a crime ? I 'm that 's what this is Marine ! Marine ! ! I 'm being charged with a crime ? I 'm that 's what 's happening ? This I 'm this is funny , you know that , this is
ROSS: Colonel Jessep , do you understand those rights as I have just read then to you ?
JESSEP: I saved lives . That boy was there was a weak link . I saved lives , you hear me ?
KAFFEE: Do n't call me son . I 'm a lawyer , and an officer of the United States Navy . And you 're unde arrest you sonofabitch .
RANDOLPH: Have the jurors reached a verdict ?
JURY FOREMAN: We have , sir .
RANDOLPH: On the charge of Murder , the Members find the defendants Not Guilty .
DAWSON: Why ?
KAFFEE: Harold , I 'm sorry .
DAWSON: Why ? !
DOWNEY: I do n't understand . Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red .
JO: I know , but
DOWNEY: Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red , what did we do wrong ?
JO: It 's not as simple as
DOWNEY: What did we do wrong ?
DAWSON: We did nothing wrong . SAM slaps his hands down on the table
SAM: Yes you did ! A jury just said you conduct was unbecoming a marine . What does that mean ? !
DAWSON: You 're the lawyer .
SAM: You 're the marine .
DAWSON: Not anymore .
KAFFEE: Harold ! They stop and turn around .
DAWSON: Sir !
KAFFEE: You do n't need to wear a patch on your arm to have honor . DAWSON stares at KAFFEE for a long moment .
DAWSON: Ten-hut . DAWSON and DOWNEY come to attention .
ROSS: Airmen Cecil O'Malley and Anthony Perez ? What exactly were these guys gon na testify to ?
KAFFEE: Unless I 'm mistaken they were gon na testify , under oath , that they have absolutely no recollection of anything . ROSS smiles .
ROSS: Strong witnesses .
KAFFEE: And very handsome , too , do n't you think ?
ROSS: I 'll see you around the campus . I 've got ta go arrest Kendrick .
KAFFEE: Tell him I say `` Hi '' .
ROSS: Will do .
JO: What do you say we take the rest of the day off . Go out someplace . Sam ? Champagne ? Yoo-Hoo ?
SAM: Thanks , I ca n't . I 'm gon na go home and talk to my daughter . I think she 's got ta be bilingual by now . And SAM heads off toward his car .
JO: So what 's next for you ?
KAFFEE: Staff Sargeant Henry Williamson . He went to the movies on company time . What about you ?
JO: Me ? Oh you know the usual .
KAFFEE: Just pretty much generally annoying people ?
JO: Yeah . So what do you say ? How 'bout a celebration ?
KAFFEE: No . How 'bout a date . A real date . Dinner . Attractive clothes . The works .
JO: Sounds good . Who do you think I should call ?
KAFFEE: I 'll pick you up at seven .
JO: What are you gon na do now ?
KAFFEE: I 'm gon na get started on Henry Williamson . Stand my post for a while .
JO: Wear matching socks .
JULIAN: Good morning .
ABEL: Ready ?
ANNA: Yes .
ABEL: You look very nice .
ANNA: Thank you .
ABEL: You sure ?
ANNA: Yes .
ABEL: We do n't have any more money so what else could I do .
ANDREW WALSH: So how are we this morning ?
ANDREW WALSH: Well I woke up feeling very good about this .
ABEL: Really ? They both take a look at their watches .
ANDREW WALSH: Well we are going all in so now I love it .
JOSEPH: So why is it you want this land ?
ABEL: I 'm sorry ?
JOSEPH: It has been difficult for you to get me here , no ? Over a year ?
ABEL: Almost two .
JOSEPH: There are many like it around ? And thanks to all these tests you paid for , we now know it is as much of a mess below the ground as it is above . My people have looked at your books , I know this is a lot of money for you , so why have you kept on us so just for this ugly and polluted little piece of the earth .
ABEL: I have been looking over my fence at this property for a very long time .
JOSEPH: So it is just proximity ?
ABEL: No I imagine I want it for the same reason you did .
JOSEPH: And what 's that ?
ABEL: To grow .
JOSEPH: Well , I am in the garment business so I appreciate that sentiment . But I inherited this land from my uncle . Sadly he had no children of his own . He was the one that let them build these tanks here . So this place can do little for me in fact thanks to all those tests you 've done it may be a liability . As you know I offered to lease the site to you at a fair price , but you were not interested ?
ABEL: No .
JOSEPH: Why not ?
ABEL: I like to own the things I use .
JOSEPH: I can see that . Long pause .
ABEL: So .
JOSEPH: Yes . This contract here , you lawyers have fully reviewed it ?
ANDREW WALSH: Of course .
JOSEPH: And you have brought the money ? So you realize you have only thirty days to close this transaction ?
ABEL: I understand .
JOSEPH: I want you to know this up front . I am a very fair man but I believe in honoring contracts . You will fulfill your end of this contract and the property is yours . If you ca n't we will keep your money and will sell it to your competitor who has been chasing us almost as badly as you have . I like you , but know that the only reason I am choosing you is because of the favorable terms of this contract . So this is usiness and when you sign this .
ABEL: I understand .
JOSEPH: Well then , let 's see this money , and then I will sign these papers .
ANDREW WALSH: Congratulations .
ABEL: It 's not ours yet .
ANDREW WALSH: Well , it was a hell of a job just getting them to this point . It 's a good day for us . Take a walk around . Enjoy it for a second .
CONTRACTOR: Hello ?
ABEL: There he is .
CONTRACTOR: Thank you .
ABEL: I mean it . You and your men should e very proud .
CONTRACTOR: We are .
ABEL: Most people do n't have anything eautiful like this to show fo their day 's work . You are a lucky man .
CONTRACTOR: I am .
ABEL: Well I thank you my family will e very happy here .
CONTRACTOR: I hope so .
ABEL: Now I think I owe you some money .
CONTRACTOR: That may be true .
ABEL: It is .
CONTRACTOR: Yes .
ABEL: Well , I 'll let you go . He says this as he leads him to the door .
CONTRACTOR: It 's being replaced , as I mentioned to your wife , that was an error on our part . Congratulations on you home .
ABEL: Thank you .
ANNA: They broke his jaw .
ABEL: Have they found the truck ?
ANNA: Yes .
ABEL: Are you alright ?
ABEL: Have the police been here yet ?
ANNA: He was left in the middle of the highway without a truck , they ought him in .
ABEL: Can you speak ? ANNA 'S temper is rising .
ANNA: Not for a couple days Can I speak with you outside ?
ABEL: Yes .
ANNA: And took the deposit ?
ABEL: Yes .
ANNA: So it 's a go ?
ANNA: Congratulations .
ABEL: To you as well .
ANNA: We have thirty days ?
ABEL: These fucking guys . This poor kid has been working his ass off .
ANNA: Do you want me to speak to my Brother about this ?
ABEL: Nodo n't talk to him or you father .
ANNA: This ca n't continue .
ABEL: It wo n't .
ANNA: It will if we do n't do something .
ABEL: I 'm meeting with the D.A . in the morning .
ANNA: Oh , fuck the D.A . He 's more interested in coming after us than helping us .
ABEL: No we are not .
ANNA: Really because they are .
ABEL: Well I 'm not .
ANNA: And you 're going out to check on the new house ?
ABEL: Yes .
BEAT COP: Excuse me ?
ABEL: May I take it now ?
BEAT COP: Is it yours ?
ABEL: Yes .
BEAT COP: Well , I 'm sorry about that . Once the owner or an owner 's epresentative files the claim form in Corona she 's yours again .
ABEL: So you guys have done what you needed to ?
BEAT COP: Yes .
ABEL: And what was that ?
BEAT COP: I 'm sorry ?
ABEL: You just said you 've done what you needed to so what was it that you 've done ?
ABEL: Did you fingerprint or anything ?
BEAT COP: No need , these guys always wea gloves .
ABEL: So you 've done nothing .
BEAT COP: I 'm not exactly sure , I just got here at four . My shift is actually up .
ABEL: So who 's coming ?
BEAT COP: Sorry .
ABEL: They stole the $ 6,000 of fuel that was in it .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Andrew .
ANDREW WALSH: Lawrence . Thank you for seeing us on such short notice .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Of course . And Mr. Morales . Please sit . I did n't realize you were coming as well .
ANDREW WALSH: Yes
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: So what can I do for you ?
ANDREW WALSH: We need your help .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: In what way ?
ANDREW WALSH: Our trucks . They are being robbed .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: ( he looks over at DEPUTY
ANDREW WALSH: We have a serious security issue .
DEPUTY LANGE: There have been a series of hijackings of bulk-fuel delivery vehicles .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yes .
ANDREW WALSH: Our drivers are being put in danger .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Mr. Walsh , as I know you know , this office has been investigating you entire industry .
ANDREW WALSH: Of course .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: And as much as I 'd like to be able to help you , you know this is a police issue . It 's not what we do here .
ANDREW WALSH: I understand . But this is turning into an urgent and pressing matte for us .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Urgent ?
ANDREW WALSH: Yes .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'm not sure what you mean . There were more murders and rapes in this city last year then there ever have een , so if you have come to tell me that we have a urgent security issue here , trust me I 'm aware . ABEL cuts in . He ca n't help himself .
ABEL: My people are at risk just driving around in this city , just trying to do their jobs . And I I have done everything you have asked of me . It 's been two years since you first started investigating my company and I have spent thousands of dollars hiring lawyers for this and that to provide you with every piece of information your office has requested . And I expect that you have been asking the same from my competitors . So with all this information that you have gained We are just asking if you have any idea who has been doing this to us ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I do n't . This sits unanswered .
ABEL: First , please know that we respect the work you are doing to try to help our business and the city . But also know I have never taken anything I have n't earned from anyone so when you say you 've He pulls himself back .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Well yes and no . See , all that I can do is to try and put people away in the simplest and most economical way possible with the limited resources at my disposal . It does n't really matter to us who it is or how we do it as long as it 's progress .
ABEL: Well , it makes a difference to me .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I know it does . This city is a very difficult place to do business ight now .
ABEL: Yes .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: You know Mr. Morales you seem like a decent man , and because of that I 'm really not comfortable just sitting here with you pretending that the elephant perched on the corner of my desk is n't there .
ABEL: I understand .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'm sure you will .
ABEL: I 'm sorry ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'm just looking here through these eports . It looks like out of the nineteen registered heating oil companies in the city your trucks have been getting hit three to one .
ABEL: Yes ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: So are you maybe doing something to ing this on yourself ?
ANDREW WALSH: Like what ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Like enter a new market ?
ABEL: I am always trying to expand my usiness .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Of course . But I think you understand what I 'm saying there are always some markets that are more difficult than others to enter .
ABEL: Every new market is a difficult market .
MORE: 22
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I have a lot of problems coming across my desk every day Mr. Morales .
ABEL: I 'm sure you do .
ANDREW WALSH: Abel . Abel . He stops and turns .
ABEL: Exactly .
ANDREW WALSH: No let 's not overreact . We do n't even know what they are bringing against us . It could be total ullshit , and they are just trying to use us along the way . This is n't anything yet .
ABEL: I know .
ANNA: How 'd it go ?
ABEL: The DA He said he 's going to ing down charges on us next week .
ANNA: For what ?
ABEL: We do n't know yet .
ANNA: Who else ?
ABEL: Right now they are just saying us . Beat .
ANNA: We follow standard industry practice on every front .
ABEL: Anna ?
ANNA: I need to know what they are saying we did . Beat .
ABEL: Okay .
JULIAN: Abel ? ABEL turns and looks at him .
ABEL: I do n't .
JULIAN: I I 'm not sure I will be able
ABEL: You will . JULIAN changes the subject .
JULIAN: Did you get the truck back ?
ABEL: Yes . They took the load .
JULIAN: This is the sixth one ?
ABEL: Seventh you get some rest .
ARNOLD KLINE: Well , look who it is .
ABEL: Arnold .
ARNOLD KLINE: Just a touch off the side Jimmy . Not all of us are as lucky as Mr. Morales here in terms of keeping our hair .
BARBER JIMMY: You 're a good looking man .
ARNOLD KLINE: I know I am . So I hea congratulations are in order ?
ABEL: What 's that ?
ARNOLD KLINE: You got yourself in contract ove there .
ABEL: We are working on it .
ARNOLD KLINE: Thirty day close I hear , you bette e .
ABEL: We are , thanks for your concern .
ARNOLD KLINE: I saw a couple of your trucks ove in Rego Park the other day .
ABEL: Really ? When was that ?
ARNOLD KLINE: A couple times .
ABEL: It 's possible .
ARNOLD KLINE: Is it ?
ABEL: Yes .
ARNOLD KLINE: That 's a tough market .
ABEL: It is .
ARNOLD KLINE: My father struggled for years efore he broke in there .
ABEL: Any new market is a tough one . I 'll see you .
ANNA: I know it has been a long road , and that not all of you wanted to do this , but thank you . For me
ABEL: A toast . All six raise a glass .
PETER FORENTE: So you made the move ?
ABEL: Peter it 's official as of yesterday .
COUNTER PERSON: Sir .
PETER FORENTE: So I heard about your rig getting picked off again .
ABEL: Yes .
PETER FORENTE: We should probably get together to discuss this and go over some of the preventative measures that we 've been taking . We have n't had an incident since November . It does n't do any of us any good to have this kind of attention brought to us . They both stare out at the court for beat .
ABEL: That 's possible .
PETER FORENTE: The driver looked like a member of the Hitler Youth . I have n't seen a teamster that blond and blue-eyed since I was a kid .
ABEL: He 's from Ohio . Played football . I like my drivers to fit in with the neighborhood
PETER FORENTE: That 's new territory for you , no ?
ABEL: Just picked up a few new accounts over there . Weekend houses of some old clients from in the city .
PETER FORENTE: Which one is yours ?
ABEL: Right there . They look out .
PETER FORENTE: She 's beautiful .
ABEL: Thank you .
PETER FORENTE: Welcome to the neighborhood . You should be proud .
ABEL: Proud ?
PETER FORENTE: Yes .
ANNIE: Dad . Mr. Walsh is here .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm sorry for the dramatic drop in ut your phone does n't seem to be working .
ABEL: It 's not set up yet So I am guessing this is n't good news here on a Sunday night .
ANDREW WALSH: No It looks like they are coming after us .
ABEL: That describes many people at this point . Slight smile .
ANDREW WALSH: The D.A .
ABEL: How bad ?
ANDREW WALSH: I still have n't seen it yet . But my guy in his office just gave me a heads up an hour ago . It 's not good .
ABEL: Where are we exposed ?
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm not sure , a couple places probably .
ABEL: A couple places ?
ANNA: Andrew .
ANDREW WALSH: Anna sorry you 've got no phone .
ABEL: As of tomorrow I 'll have my new adio hooked up though so you should be able to reach me whereve I am
ANDREW WALSH: The D.A . is going to bring down charges on us tomorrow .
ANNA: For what ?
ANDREW WALSH: We do n't know yet .
ANNA: Who else ?
ANDREW WALSH: Right now they are just saying us .
ABEL: Where are we exposed ? ABEL looks at his wife . She looks at ANDREW .
ANNA: We follow standard industry practice on every front .
ABEL: What does that mean ?
ANNA: You know what that means .
ANDREW WALSH: It means we may have some accounting exposure where we have pushed things a little too far .
ABEL: How far ?
ANDREW WALSH: You always told us to push until we could n't push any further . Well , we may have hit that line . So we will handle it and move on .
ABEL: Anna ? ABEL shoots her a stinging worried glance .
ANNA: I need to know what they are saying we did .
ANDREW WALSH: Let 's not get ahead of ourselves here . You have always followed standard industry practices . We are n't even sure what this is yet . I just wanted to make sure you had all the information I do . This is a adge of honor , it means we are big enough to give a shit about now . Do n't worry . That sits for a beat .
ABEL: Okay .
ANNA: Thank you for coming by Andrew .
ANDREW WALSH: Very impressive .
ABEL: Thank you .
ANNA: It only cost him a year of the kid 's tuition .
ANDREW WALSH: And one more thing . I got a call from the union O'Leary . This grabs both their attention .
ANNA: What word ?
ANDREW WALSH: There is real concern about thei safety .
ABEL: Who ?
ANNA: All of them .
ANDREW WALSH: The drivers are feeling unprotected .
ANNA: Because they are .
ANDREW WALSH: I just think you should talk to them about it . Before it grows into something .
ABEL: Okay .
ANDREW WALSH: Good night .
ANNA: What 's he doing ?
ABEL: Quiet do n't worry . It 's nothing . ANNA tries to go back to sleep .
ANNA: Where were you ?
ABEL: A lot of help you were .
ANNA: Abel ?
ABEL: What do you mean , how am I supposed to know who it was ? She gives him a look .
ANNA: If you
ABEL: Ouch ! If they had wanted to send a message he could have and he did n't .
ANNA: Seems like a message was sent loud and clear .
ABEL: Please . Do n't get going on this . We are a big new house . He probably wanted the TV . He did n't have a gun , he had nothing . The alarm will e in on Monday . It was some kid . They are n't coming back . She looks at him with considerable concern .
MORE: 38
INSTRUCTOR: Do you hear that noise that 's the noise .
ABEL: It means you are close Then after sitting in silence way longe than is comfortable , you turn . And say `` I 'd love to run a few numbers for you . Is there somewhere more comfortable we could sit . '' They will almost always take you to the dining room table and will offe you something . And whatever it is you always take the fancy option .
INSTRUCTOR: Can I get you a coffee or tea ?
ABEL: A tea please .
INSTRUCTOR: We have some homemade lemonade or a soda .
ABEL: I 'd love a lemonade , thank you .
BACK: Yes , Eddy .
ABEL: We have been in constant contact with the union and they are n't considering any new course of action at this time .
ANNA: Catherine Catherine . Katie !
CATHERINE: Mommy .
ANNA: Where did you get this ? Catherine where did you find this ?
CATHERINE: Right here .
ANNA: Show me .
CATHERINE: It was just sitting right here . ANNA turns to the middle daughter , ELIZABETH .
ANNA: Did you see this ?
ELIZABETH: Yeah , she went under there to get that ball and came out with it .
ANNA: Maria ! ANNA yells towards in the house .
ELIZABETH: What is it ?
ANNA: Maria !
ELIZABETH: Mom , is it real ?
ABEL: What is that ?
ANNA: A gun It 's a gun Abel .
ABEL: Where did you get it ?
ANNA: Your youngest daughter found it in the bushes outside our front door . She was playing with it . ABEL is totally speechless .
ABEL: Let me see that . I 'll take care of this .
ANNA: Damn right we will . Who is this ?
ABEL: I do n't know , but I will take care of it .
ANNA: What does that mean you will take care of it . This is n't a brick through our car window or some other cute little warning that I 've put up with in the past . This is your daughter playing with a loaded gun ! He turns back quickly . And stares at her .
ABEL: I know what it is !
ANNA: You better . Because you wo n't like what 's going to happen once I start getting involved .
ABEL: You are not to tell your fathe about this .
ANNA: I wo n't . ANDREW comes to the door and knocks .
ANDREW WALSH: Can I talk with you both ?
ANNA: I found a gun outside our front door . Somebody left it there last night .
ANDREW WALSH: Who ?
ABEL: I do n't know .
ANDREW WALSH: Well
ABEL: That truck just went out filthy .
ANNA: Abel !
ANDREW WALSH: We are going to owe them some money . This brings him back .
ABEL: How much ?
ANDREW WALSH: That depends on a bunch of factors . But that 's an accounting question . They both look to ANNA
ABEL: You need to get home and start going through our set of books . How far back are they going ?
ANDREW WALSH: Seems like all the way back to when you bought out Anna 's father .
ANNA: I 'll get into it .
ABEL: What is O'Leary doing here ? . Abel looks to ANDREW .
ANDREW WALSH: He 's been wanting to talk to you for days .
ABEL: Jesus .
ANNA: Andrew can I talk to you for a minute . ABEL leaves and they stay .
ABEL: How are you Bill ?
BILL O'LEARY: I 'm ok. Ca n't say I 'm used to making house calls like this anymore though .
ABEL: I would have come to see you .
BILL O'LEARY: That 's alright . You 've got bigge things to worry about . So , I ca n't have this situation with your guys continuing .
ABEL: My guys .
BILL O'LEARY: Your drivers .
ABEL: Good . I would love you to help on this . Because I ca n't have it going on any longer either .
BILL O'LEARY: So let them protect themselves , that would stop all this very quickly .
ABEL: I respectfully disagree .
BILL O'LEARY: They are picking on your men ecause they are just sitting there weak .
ABEL: They are taking shots at me because I am growing , expanding , getting stronger not weaker .
BILL O'LEARY: It 's quite simple for me I ca n't have my drivers getting hit like this . It looks like I ca n't protect them .
ABEL: Well , it appears that you ca n't .
BILL O'LEARY: I can . And will . Because of all my job descriptions that is the one I consider most sacred .
ABEL: I agree . But these are truck drivers , not soldiers , this will lead to chaos .
BILL O'LEARY: It will stop immediately .
ABEL: No , it wo n't .
BILL O'LEARY: You seem to be under pressure from many sides right now which I understand . Trust me I understand . So let me think this through . But whatever decision I make on this , it stands . Those men show up every morning for you because I tell them to . It 's important for you to ealize that these are very dangerous times , and we need to adapt . It 's not like when we were driving .
ABEL: Yes .
BILL O'LEARY: Sometimes the weak man is the stronger man if he has the right tools .
ABEL: It may seem that way but if you are weak eventually it will show it always does . And if you want this to all be behind us , help me find out who is doing this . You know a lot of people , and that would be the most help to me .
BILL O'LEARY: It 's not always as simple as it appears .
ABEL: I 'm sure that 's true .
BILL O'LEARY: It is well , I got to get going .
ABEL: Thank you for coming Bill .
ANDREW WALSH: How did that go ?
BILL O'LEARY: Not well .
ANDREW WALSH: He feels very strongly about this .
BILL O'LEARY: I can see that .
ANDREW WALSH: I do n't think he fully understands it .
BILL O'LEARY: What 's to understand ?
ANDREW WALSH: It 's illegal .
BILL O'LEARY: It 's not illegal if I say it is n't . My responsibility is to provide safe and timely passage of goods and products into and around this city . And because of this situation it is appearing to those whose opinions I care about that I ca n't do my job . That can not and will not continue .
ANDREW WALSH: I understand .
BILL O'LEARY: So talk to him . You need to protect yourself . This is very serious . Just know that . ANDREW thinks this through .
ANDREW WALSH: How would this work ?
BILL O'LEARY: What does that mean ?
ANDREW WALSH: I guess I 'm not even sure exactly what you are suggesting .
BILL O'LEARY: Are you kidding me with this ?
ANDREW WALSH: No .
BILL O'LEARY: Every driver in your fleet gets a handgun .
ANDREW WALSH: And a permit ? O'LEARY nods yes .
BILL O'LEARY: By Friday .
ANDREW WALSH: Are the permits legit ?
BILL O'LEARY: That depends what they do with it . If they kill their wife with them , then no . Then that is a very fake permit , and I 'll walk away very quickly . But they just need to show that they are defending themselves , and this will stop .
ANDREW WALSH: Who is it ?
BILL O'LEARY: I do n't fucking know
ANDREW WALSH: I 'll talk to him .
ANNA: He 's not here .
ANDREW WALSH: How did that go ?
BILL O'LEARY: Not well .
ANDREW WALSH: He feels very strongly about this .
BILL O'LEARY: I can see that .
ANDREW WALSH: I do n't think he fully understands it .
BILL O'LEARY: What 's to understand ?
ANDREW WALSH: It 's illegal .
BILL O'LEARY: It 's not illegal if I say it is n't . This takes ANDREW back a step .
ANDREW WALSH: I understand .
BILL O'LEARY: So talk to him . You need to protect yourself . As a company .
ANDREW WALSH: I will try to talk with him .
BILL O'LEARY: This is very serious . Just know that . ANDREW WALSH thinks this through .
ANDREW WALSH: How would this work ?
BILL O'LEARY: What does that mean ?
ANDREW WALSH: I guess I 'm not even sure exactly what you are suggesting .
BILL O'LEARY: Are you kidding me with this ?
ANDREW WALSH: No .
BILL O'LEARY: Every driver in your fleet gets a handgun .
ANDREW WALSH: And a permit ? O'LEARY nods yes .
BILL O'LEARY: By Friday .
ANDREW WALSH: Are the permits legit ?
BILL O'LEARY: That depends what they do with it . If they kill their wife with them , then no . Then that is a very fake permit , and I 'll walk away very quickly . But they just need to show that they are defending themselves , and this will stop .
ANDREW WALSH: Who is it ?
BILL O'LEARY: I do n't fucking know
ANDREW WALSH: They just got another truck .
ABEL: I know .
ANDREW WALSH: Who was driving ?
ABEL: Leo .
ANDREW WALSH: Is he alright ?
ABEL: Yes .
ANDREW WALSH: The drivers ' security aside this shit is starting to have a very significant financial effect on us here . It ca n't continue .
ABEL: I know .
ANDREW WALSH: How was your talk ? I spoke with him after . He 's going to keep going ` til he gets the answer he 's looking for .
ABEL: I said I would n't do it . They sit for a long beat .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm not sure we are in a position to say that .
ABEL: What 's that ? ANDREW looks around . He 's getting paranoid .
ANDREW WALSH: Do you want to go for a walk ?
ABEL: Are you really serious with this , this is what it 's come to , walking around outside like fucking gangsters ?
ANDREW WALSH: I am and it is .
ABEL: I must ? This gets a little personal .
ANDREW WALSH: They will shut you down .
ABEL: These men , they work for me . These trucks they drive , the customers they serve . They are here because we built this .
ANDREW WALSH: That 's true , until its not . And the last person in the world right now that we need working against us is the president of the fucking teamsters . This company is out of usiness in a month if he gets these guys to walk . We are running out of cash .
ABEL: What are you even talking about here ?
ANDREW WALSH: The union provides a handgun and a permit to every one of the drivers . And they think this whole thing is over in a week .
ABEL: These men are fucking truck drivers . This is insane . You know who is gon na get it in the end here , me . This comes back to me .
ANDREW WALSH: It does either way .
ABEL: I 'm not doing it .
ANDREW WALSH: Would you put everything at risk to stand by that . ABEL thinks this through .
ABEL: It will be the end of everything I have worked for . If one of these guys shoots somebody it 's me they will bring down for itI 'll talk to him And we need to close this deal . We ca n't stay like this any longer . We must close on that property We are so weak right now .
ANDREW WALSH: Why do you want this so badly ?
ABEL: Because I have my entire savings at isk with this deposit . It is everything .
ANDREW WALSH: That 's not what I mean . Why did you want it so badly in the first place ? It was a risk always . ABEL thinks this through .
ABEL: I do n't know .
ANDREW WALSH: You do n't know ? Have you eve thought about it ?
ABEL: I 've thought about it every day fo the last five years . This place was sitting over that fence mocking .
ANDREW WALSH: I did n't mean have you ever thought about that place
MORE: 57
ABEL: I do n't know what you mean .
ANDREW WALSH: That 's very simple .
ABEL: Yes With this he gives him a deadly serious look .
ANDREW WALSH: You take these risks
ABEL: Only when necessary .
ANDREW WALSH: We have to get going , we need them to show up .
ANNA: Arthur .
ARTHUR LEWIS: Anna , you look amazing as always .
ANNA: Thank you .
ARTHUR LEWIS: Gentlemen . Do you know Ian Thompson ? One of our new VP 's .
ANNA: Ian .
WAITER: So what can I get you to drink ?
ABEL: A lot . Awkward laughter .
WAITER: I 'll be right back .
ARTHUR LEWIS: So how are you ?
ABEL: We 've been better but we are good .
ARTHUR LEWIS: Yes I heard about that if you stay in business long enough it 's ound to happen eventually .
ANNA: Well that 's exactly right . And we wanted to sit down with you tonight to make sure we were being totally up-front with everything that is going on and make sure that you understand the nature of the complaints and are comfortable that it is not going to affect ou usiness in an adverse way .
ANDREW WALSH: Did you have a chance to look ove the outline that I sent over ?
ARTHUR LEWIS: Yes , we did .
ANNA: Hopefully it made clear that even in a worst case situation we will pay off any and all fines and be able to move forward with very comfortable capital on hand . ABEL jumps in taking some offense .
ABEL: But you should know Arthur that this man has been digging through our industry for over two years looking for anything he can find . And as you know probably bette than anyone , having worked with some of our competitors the thought that he would have singled us out is ridiculous . It reeks of everything that is wrong with this city right now . We run a fair and clean business and follow every standard industry practice and I will fight ` til my last day to prove that This silences the table for a long beat .
ARTHUR LEWIS: We 've always been there with you and know that we will continue to e .
ANNA: Well , that went about as well as could be expected .
ABEL: Yes . Arthur is a good man .
ANNA: Do you think they will close ?
ABEL: Of course .
ANNA: Yes you need to go put it out of its misery .
ABEL: Jesus .
ANNA: I mean it . We ca n't just leave it here .
ABEL: No .
ANNA: Well you need
ABEL: I know . He reaches down to open the trunk .
ANNA: What are you doing ?
ABEL: Getting the tire iron !
ANNA: Hello Maria , sorry we are a bit late . They were fine ?
NANNY MARIA: Oh yes . All is good .
ANNA: Great , thank you . We 'll see you in the morning then .
NANNY MARIA: Okay .
ANNA: What ?
ABEL: What ?
ANNA: Yes what ?
ABEL: Are you kidding ?
ANNA: No .
ABEL: Okay then what is this gun ?
ANNA: I told you I was n't going to just continue to stand around and let these people come and get me and my children . So unlike you who seems to be totally comfortable just standing around like some fucking pussy I did something about it .
ABEL: Where did you get it ?
ANNA: You know where I got it .
ABEL: Do you have a permit ?
ANNA: Not yet .
ABEL: You must be a bigger fucking idiot than I even thought . You are trying to protect your children ? Protect them ? Do you have any idea what happens if you get caught using that thing ? He is now standing right over her .
ANNA: You 've given me ? You ? Are you delusional ? Do you even understand how ridiculous that makes you sound ?
ABEL: Where is this thing ? Let me see it .
ANNA: Abel .
ABEL: Let me see it . Is this going to make you safe ?
HE SCREAMS: Whores !
ANNA: You need to protect us .
ABEL: That is what I 'm doing . He walks out the front door .
GROUP: Happy Birthday !
ABEL: I understand . But as you can see this is a terrible time for us . I am having my daughter 's birthday party .
POLICE OFFICER: I understand and I apologize , I do . But this is a warrant and we need to gain complete access to the property .
ANNA: What is this ?
POLICE OFFICER: Let me go check something .
ANNA: Are they serious ?
ABEL: I 'm going to kill this guy .
ANNA: Abel . ANNA is trying to get his attention quietly .
ABEL: Abel .
ANNA: Mr. Lawrence is it ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yes .
ANNA: Anna Morales .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yeah .
ANNA: I understand you and your men have a job to do here . But we are in the middle of a seven-year-old 's irthday party .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I understand , and I 'm sorry . But we are coming in . She turns a little on him .
ANNA: That 's not a problem , as we have nothing to hide from you . It 's just that , we recently moved to this area , and there are twenty guests in our house please can you give me five minutes so we can ask everyone to leave calmly before you come into my home ? He thinks this through .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: You can get them out of the house .
ANNA: Thank you .
ABEL: Bring the last few out .
ANNA: You 've got three minutes .
ABEL: What 's going on out there .
ANNA: Our guests are leaving .
ABEL: Do we even need to be doing this ? What exactly are we hiding here ? She thinks this through .
ANNA: I do n't want them going through all this before I 've had a chance to .
ABEL: Is that the last one . Get back out there . ABEL looks around for a place to stash them .
ANNA: Thank you for coming . Here you go . Bye , Rebecca . Thanks . I 'm sorry . Bye .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Excuse me ?
ANNA: My husband is a very honorable man . Coming on a Saturday ? It 's very aggressive .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: This is standard .
ANNA: Really ? I know you think you are just doing your job . But we are not what you think we are . And you have embarrassed him in front of his family and friends . She gives him a long , almost scary look .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I think I know your father .
ANNA: Good for you . My husband is not my father . Not even close . So if I were you I would start treating us with a little more respect or he 'll make it our only mission to ruin you . This was very disrespectful and you are not going to find a fucking thing .
ABEL: Hey , how are you ?
JULIAN: Thank you .
ABEL: Are you ready to get back to work ?
JULIAN: I think so .
ABEL: You are .
JULIAN: Thank you .
ABEL: Where are you heading ?
JULIAN: Bulk delivery to Chase .
ABEL: Manhattan . That 's a cakewalk .
JULIAN: I feel very vulnerable . ABEL jumps on this .
ABEL: Good Because you are . We all are . Someone came to my house a couple nights ago to rob me
MORE: 72
MRS. ROSE: Of course , come in .
HUSBAND: Hey .
MRS. ROSE: I 'm going to head up . Can I get you something to drink ? Coffee tea ?
HUSBAND: Please .
JULIAN: Cathy ! They are coming again . Over . Help . Help . On Bridge .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Whoa , whoa , whoa ! Take it easy there .
JULIAN: Get the fuck away from me !
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Okay , man .
THUG #2: Over here .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Where is he ?
THUG #2: Over here .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Get the car !
JULIAN: Fuck you .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Could n't just let us take the truck .
JULIAN: Fuck you !
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Hey man relax calm down . Did they see you come in here ?
JULIAN: I do n't think so .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Did they or not ? He thinks .
JULIAN: No .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Alright , there 's a door down here about four more flights . Do n't go out there , that 's the street . Go down about two more flights afte that and you 'll come out below the idge . They wo n't be there .
JULIAN: Fuck you !
LOUIS SERVIDIO: You 're welcome .
PETER FORENTE: It 's a pretty cool machine , is n't it ? ABEL nods .
ABEL: Peter .
PETER FORENTE: Yes .
ABEL: I need to speak with you .
PETER FORENTE: I see that .
ABEL: This has gotten out of control There was a guy with a gun at my house .
PETER FORENTE: Is everyone okay ?
ABEL: Yes . I managed to chase him off .
PETER FORENTE: Well , I 'm sorry , that must have een scary what can I do .
ABEL: I need to know who is doing this .
PETER FORENTE: Abel
ABEL: It 's one thing to come after my trucks and drivers and to steal from me but this it 's different .
PETER FORENTE: Yes .
ABEL: Have you ever dealt with anything like this ?
PETER FORENTE: Have you met my father ?
ABEL: I refuse to live my life that way . I wo n't do it I am going to ask for a meeting .
PETER FORENTE: Who ?
ABEL: Anyone with more than 20k of storage . Can I count on you being there ? PETER looks away for a long beat .
PETER FORENTE: Yes When are you closing on the terminal ?
ABEL: Monday .
PETER FORENTE: Congratulations .
ABEL: Hold that it 's not done yet you may be hearing from me .
PETER FORENTE: Well , good luck . ABEL stands up ready to go .
ABEL: Thank you for seeing me . I want more than this
PETER FORENTE: I know you do . My father is in jail as you know . And I have always wanted to conduct myself differently than he did .
ABEL: And you have .
PETER FORENTE: Almost exclusively , yes . But I know why he did what he did . Because at the time it 's easier .
ABEL: But it 's not .
PETER FORENTE: Yes it is . You are a good man . I will see what I can find out . This is n't good for any of us .
ABEL: Thank you .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I heard .
ABEL: I need to make sure you know that we had nothing to do with this . It 's not the way I do business . In fact I have been warning my men against doing this sort of thing . It is terrible for me .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: It 's not good for either of us .
ABEL: Yes .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: In my job we use whatever leverage we can gain , as I 'm sure you do in your business . It 's an ongoing investigation , and it will be just one piece of many . So while I appreciate you coming here I have nothing I can tell you .
ABEL: No but I 'll find him .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: You should . And when you do , bring him to us . A situation like this , happening in such a dangerous and public way , within an industry I 'm charged with cleaning up . It 's very ad for me professionally speaking .
ARTHUR LEWIS: Abel .
ABEL: Arthur .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I wanted to come and talk to you in person We are n't going to be able to show up for you on Monday . We ca n't do the loan .
ABEL: I ARTHUR LEWIS I wanted to let you know as soon as possible so that you could try to put something else together .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I know .
ABEL: What can I do ?
ARTHUR LEWIS: Nothing The loan review committee met this afternoon and wo n't meet again for two weeks .
ABEL: And you are aware of the position this is putting me in ?
ARTHUR LEWIS: I am .
ABEL: I paid off my first loan to you eleven years ago .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I know .
ABEL: Do you remember the term on that loan ?
ARTHUR LEWIS: I do n't .
ABEL: I had seven years to pay you back . They both nod knowing what 's coming next .
ARTHUR LEWIS: Seven months ?
ABEL: Six and a half .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I 'm sorry .
ABEL: I put 40 percent down as a deposit on this . It 's all we had .
ARTHUR LEWIS: You now have three separate serious pending legal cases against you . One with sixteen counts of misconduct ranging from fraud to tax evasion . And then in the middle of our meeting today I get a report saying you had armed your entire fleet of drivers which led to a shoot-out on the 59th Street Bridge .
ABEL: None of it is true .
ARTHUR LEWIS: That may be .
ABEL: May ? They look at each other .
ARTHUR LEWIS: It does n't matter .
ABEL: It does matter , that you know we did n't do this .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I do I do . But it does n't matter , I ca n't do anything . I 'm sorry . ABEL 's demeanor shifts .
ABEL: I 'll find it .
ARTHUR LEWIS: I know you will .
ANNA: It 's horrible .
ABEL: Yes .
ANNA: Where is he ?
ABEL: We 're looking for him .
ANNA: And they have n't gotten the othe guys ?
ABEL: Of course not .
ANNA: Are you okay ?
ABEL: No I 'm not They 're out . This gets her attention .
ANNA: Who ?
ABEL: The bank .
ANNA: So what does that mean ?
ABEL: It means we need to find the money somewhere else .
ANNA: We have two days !
ABEL: I 'll figure it out .
DAUGHTERS: Move .
ANNA: Quiet .
DAUGHTERS: You move .
ANNA: Stop . I 've told you guys not to push it this morning , this is not the morning to be doing this but since the second you all woke up . It 's this , it 's that . Just stop . The world does not revolve around you !
ABEL: You are thirteen years old . What are you doing ? Your mother asks you an hour ago to help her get out of the house smoothly and you are acting like an
ANNIE: Oh fuck you !
ABEL: What ? What ? What are you talking about ?
ANNIE: The world revolves around me ? Me ! What about her ? And what about you ? You 're both so totally obsessed with your stupid business . You walk around like you are saving the world but what are you doing nothing !
ABEL: First off I do n't walk around like I am saving anything . I chose this usiness because I looked at the world and said ` What 's the last ill people stop paying every month when they are low on cash ? ' ` Cause that 's a business I want to be in . ` Cause failure was n't much of an option for me . I lived in eality not whatever this world is you are living in . And we help people stay warm which is n't all that bad . Maybe you 've got grander ambitions ut for now this is how you eat , sleep , and get all dressed up So you better shape the fuck up and NEVER speak to me like this again !
ANNA: Stop ! !
ABEL: Hey . She looks up with a small but sweet smile .
ANNA: Hi .
ABEL: How 's it coming ?
ANNA: I 've made it to 1975 .
ABEL: That was a good year .
ANNA: I 'm not sure yet but it 's not as ad as they are saying it is Turns out I kinda knew what I was doing . They give each other a slight smile .
ABEL: I got us a three more days and one piece from Saul . But we 're still about a million short . They look at each other with concern .
ANNA: You 're going to see your little other ?
ABEL: First thing .
ANNA: And Peter ?
ABEL: Probably . As they look at each other ABEL
ANNA: This is all worth it . He pauses just long enough to think .
ABEL: Of course .
ANNA: I 'll be up .
ABEL: I love you .
ANNA: I love you too .
ANDREW WALSH: Is Julian here ?
LUISA: No .
ANDREW WALSH: Abel would like to speak with him . To help him .
LUISA: I will tell him . JULIAN steps into the frame from behind her .
JULIAN: He 's turning me in ? ANDREW looks at him without much remorse .
ANDREW WALSH: Of course we are turning you in . You have put everything that man has worked for for the last 20 years at risk . If it was up to me we would be dealing with this in a very different way .
JULIAN: But I know things
ANDREW WALSH: Really ?
JULIAN: Yes .
ANDREW WALSH: And what things do you know ? JULIAN looks back at him .
JULIAN: I 'm sorry .
ANDREW WALSH: I am too . ANDREW now changes his tone .
JULIAN: I do n't know .
ANDREW WALSH: Where 's the gun ? JULIAN stutters for a moment , then .
JULIAN: I threw it in the river .
ANDREW WALSH: Good . Your background check with us says you have never been arrested , is that true ?
JULIAN: Why is this putting everything at isk ?
ANDREW WALSH: Have you ever been arrested ?
JULIAN: No .
ANDREW WALSH: Because no bank will touch us right now . So we ca n't close on the new property . And he 's going to lose everything on his deposit .
JULIAN: I 'm sorry .
ABEL: I know .
JULIAN: I was scared .
ABEL: I know .
JULIAN: Are n't you scared ?
ABEL: Sometimes .
JULIAN: What do you do ? ABEL thinks this through long and hard .
ABEL: I have always been much more scared of failure than anything else .
ABEL: It was n't always like this .
JULIAN: Are you ruined ?
ABEL: Not today but by the end of the week maybe .
JULIAN: I 'm sorry .
ABEL: Good
JULIAN: No I am not strong .
ABEL: That does not have to be true .
JULIAN: Trust me I am not I 'm sorry .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm late . I will meet you at four .
ABEL: I 'm gon na try to get us a little more time .
COP 1: Hey . ABEL 'S face tells us he knows what is coming .
ABEL: Thank you for seeing me .
JOSEPH: Of course .
ABEL: I need more time .
JOSEPH: Of course you do .
ABEL: I know our agreement does n't allow for that . But I need more time .
JOSEPH: Why ? This takes ABEL back a bit .
ABEL: Thank you for asking . Many , many easons .
JOSEPH: It 's a difficult time to do usiness .
ABEL: Yes it is .
JOSEPH: I 'll give you three more days . Then it 's over .
ABEL: Thank you .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: So . I should start by thanking you for your assistance in in attempting to bring in your driver ?
ANDREW WALSH: We did n't think he 'd react that way .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yes Well , the officers there did n't set it up very well on thei end either .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm sorry .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: We are looking for him .
ANDREW WALSH: So are we it 's very sad . He was very close to Abel .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I understand . Well Ms. Lange .
DEPUTY LANGE: It has been brought to ou attention that it might be eneficial on your end to resolve this issue in a time sensitive way .
ANDREW WALSH: Possibly .
DEPUTY LANGE: So we have prepared an offer fo you to review .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'll show this to them . He 'll neve go for it , but it 's a start .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: This could get a lot worse for you all .
ANDREW WALSH: I know I will present it to him .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: And Andrew , one other thing . He turns . They are now alone in the hallway .
ANDREW WALSH: You need what to stop ?
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: This fucking bullshit with the open warfare . I wo n't put up with it . It 's starting to be a real problem .
ANDREW WALSH: Starting to be ? No shit .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Not for you but for me .
ANDREW WALSH: I understand . The kid went out and got his own gun . This was not us . No matter what you think of him , Abel does n't work this way .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I really could give a fuck , but you need to get your man to talk to these people , give in , stop doing whatever you are doing to bring this shit on you . It needs to stop .
ANDREW WALSH: He wants to talk to them . We 've een trying to set up a meeting . O'Leary has n't been able to get it done .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'll talk to him . ANDREW gives him a look .
ABEL: I talked to the Hasid , I got us three days . ANDREW nods .
ANDREW WALSH: Is that enough ?
ABEL: I do n't know .
ANDREW WALSH: Well here it is . It 's just a first pass .
ABEL: Felons ca n't vote . This takes ANDREW back .
ANDREW WALSH: I 'm sorry ?
ABEL: This plea has me
ANDREW WALSH: I know . It 's just a first offer .
ABEL: I would never take this .
ANDREW WALSH: I know . ABEL looks off and resets .
ABEL: Who ?
ANDREW WALSH: Lawrence , he 's tight with O'Leary .
ABEL: Of course he is .
ANDREW WALSH: Does Julian have anything ? ABEL gives him a look ?
ABEL: All the drivers could have us on scales . Why ?
ANDREW WALSH: If we are cutting deals , we ca n't have anything new come up at the last minute .
ABEL: He would never do that .
ANDREW WALSH: We need to find him Lawrence needs him .
ABEL: Thank you for letting me in .
LUISA: Of course .
ABEL: Have you seen Julian ?
LUISA: No . ABEL questions her with a look .
ABEL: We need to find him .
LUISA: I know .
ABEL: I am worried about him .
LUISA: So am I .
ABEL: You know we were going to support him . I do not know why he ran .
LUISA: He was scared . ABEL shakes his head .
ABEL: I know .
LUISA: He has always wanted to make you proud . You know that right ?
ABEL: Yes . Well this time that has n't worked out .
LUISA: No How did you do it ?
ABEL: Do what ?
LUISA: This . She motions towards his suit .
ABEL: I know . It makes me very sad , ecause he is a very talented young man . But there are some decisions that you can not come back from . I need to know where he is . And I need him to turn himself in . His actions are hurting me and my usiness . And I refuse to let othe people 's weaknesses hurt me . I do n't know how it has come to this , ut it has . If he does the right thing I will help to take care of his responsibilities . You and you family . When you see him . Tell him this . Please .
LUISA: I will .
ABEL: Does he have any money ?
LUISA: I 'm sorry ?
ABEL: Money ? Has he taken money out of your bank account ?
LUISA: I do n't know ?
ABEL: You need to start looking into these things . It is very important that we find him safely .
IN ENGLISH: Stop ! Stop running away ! Andrew ! He 's coming your way !
ABEL: I understand why you lied , but it is not smart .
MORE: 104
ANDREW WALSH: Fuck You ! You better run !
ABEL: Thank you both for agreeing to meet with me .
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: Of course .
ABEL: I think we have met before but I did n't realize you were Saul 's Granddaughter .
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: I am .
ABEL: I 'm sorry to ask but how old are you ?
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: I 'm 23 .
ABEL: Oh .
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: My Grandfather did n't trust any of his children to run the business .
ABEL: Yes .
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: I know that you tried to buy the company from my Grandfather several times .
ABEL: Yes .
LORRAINE LEFKOWITZ: His goal was to stay healthy long enough to be able to give the company to me . Which he thankfully did . They both give a slight smile .
ABEL: I understand . And I hope that you Grandfather was able to communicate to you how much I have always espected him . And it was only out of respect for the business he had uilt , and because I knew of his eservations and feelings about your uncles and your father that I made those offers .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: I understand .
ABEL: But , I am not here to offer to buy your company .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: Oh .
ABEL: As I 'm sure you will soon learn some years are good others not so . I am in contract with a significant hard deposit at risk to purchase the old Bayfront terminal .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: I see .
ABEL: And due to circumstances beyond my control my bank has left me at the altar .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: I 'm sorry .
ABEL: So , I am here , hat in hand , looking for a loan . I certainly expect the terms to be in your favor as I could not be at a weaker place . But , if your Grandfather trusted you with his company , I would be willing to trust you as my lien holder .
SAUL LEFKOWITZ: How much ?
ABEL: I need $ 500,000 .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: Would you give us a minute .
ABEL: Of course .
LEFKOWITZ RECEPTIONIST: You can go back in .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: We can offer you the 500k at 20 percent for a year .
MORE: 107
ABEL: Okay . Thank you .
LORAINE LEFKOWITZ: So , I guess we will see you tonight ?
ABEL: Tonight ? Oh yes , of course .
BILL O'LEARY: Abel . Please sit .
ABEL: Stop
PETER FORENTE: Um Abel we had a chance to meet for a little bit before you got here and of course everyone in this room is fully capable of lying to their own mothers on thei deathbeds , but the conclusion we have come to I should say we are fairly convinced after a very frank conversation that these guys who are doing this that they do n't actually work for anyone in this oom . As you know there are many other smaller providers in the area that might be responsible who are not here tonight .
ABEL: Peter thank you That may be true . He stops and thinks about how to continue .
ANNA: Hi .
ABEL: How 's it coming ?
ANNA: I 've made it to 1975 .
ABEL: That was a good year .
ANNA: I 'm not sure yet but it 's not as ad as they are saying it is I guess I knew what I was doing . They give each other a slight smile .
ABEL: I got us a three more days and one piece from Saul . But we 're still about a million short .
ANNA: You 're going to see your little other ?
ABEL: First thing .
ANNA: And Peter ?
ABEL: Probably . Abel is now sitting down on the chair .
ANNA: They 're fine .
ABEL: Of course .
ANNA: Look at usit is .
ABEL: I know .
ANNA: I 'll be up .
ABEL: I love you .
ANNA: I love you too .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: Please . Please . They stare at each other .
ABEL: Your friend is dead who do you work for .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: You know I could never tell you that .
ABEL: Stop just stop .
LOUIS SERVIDIO: This was it anyway . Okay Okay .
ARNOLD KLINE: Hey .
ABEL: Jimmy , can you give me a minute ? Jimmy looks around then walks into the back .
ARNOLD KLINE: Abel , that was well said .
ABEL: Thank you .
ARNOLD KLINE: What can I do for you ?
ABEL: I 've just come to collect that check you owe me . This takes him back a step .
ARNOLD KLINE: What check is that ?
ABEL: The one for $ 213,000 .
ARNOLD KLINE: I 'm sorry ?
ABEL: That 's how much has been taken from me over the last six months .
ARNOLD KLINE: I had nothing to do with that .
ABEL: Your Far Rockaway facility bought a load of fuel last week off one of my stolen trucks .
ARNOLD KLINE: That 's not possible .
ABEL: I was standing on top of one of my hi-jacked trucks a couple weeks ago thinking about the cowards who did this when I remembered I had bought the load of fuel off a friend 's tanker straight from Texas . As I 'm sure you know Texas # 4 is marked . But that was just one load , so every truck that has left my lot for the last two weeks has been marked with dye that I 've put in And luckily four more of my trucks got jacked since . My guess is there are at least 4600 gallons of marked fuel in your small tank ight now . No answer . Finally .
ARNOLD KLINE: How much ?
ABEL: I said213,000 .
ARNOLD KLINE: I 'll need a day .
ABEL: Okay . ABEL gets ready to leave .
ARNOLD KLINE: I 've just been buying this stuff off these guys , it was only a couple loads , I do n't know who they are . I would never do that .
ABEL: My goal was to have you out of usiness by the end of next year . And if you 're this fucking desperate it does n't seem like it will even take that long . He walks away .
ARNOLD KLINE: Abel , I was n't the only person uying this shit . He turns .
ABEL: I do n't care .
ARNOLD KLINE: It may ruin me .
ABEL: When you find out who else it was you can get them to pay you back the difference . Kinda makes you miss having your father around ? But I need the whole lot tomorrow o the feds will be at your doorstep y noon . He leaves .
ELIAS: I did n't know you were coming .
ABEL: I did n't either I did n't mean to take you away .
ELIAS: We 're done .
ABEL: Of course . You 've grown .
ELIAS: You saw me a month ago .
ABEL: I know but you have .
ELIAS: Yes .
ABEL: I do n't know how you get anything done around here .
ELIAS: I do n't . Slight smile at each other .
ABEL: I 'm in a bit of a rough patch .
ELIAS: Yes
ABEL: It happens .
ELIAS: I know .
ABEL: Good
ELIAS: What will ?
ABEL: Not having had one . Then he sits .
ELIAS: What is it ?
ABEL: I need to take out a short term mortgage on our apartment building .
ELIAS: That thing is n't worth more than 150 grand though ?
ABEL: 210 .
ELIAS: Since when do you need to be taking out sucker mortgages for 200 grand ?
ABEL: I 'm up against it a bit . It will be fine .
ELIAS: I love you .
ABEL: I love you too .
PETER FORENTE: Well here he is . The caped crusader .
ABEL: Yes .
PETER FORENTE: Come over . Are you alright ?
ABEL: I am .
PETER FORENTE: Did they catch any of them ? Sit .
ABEL: The one guy did n't make it out of the crash , and the other guy disappeared .
PETER FORENTE: That was very well said last night .
ABEL: Thank you . And thanks for seeing me .
PETER FORENTE: Of course . So what is it ?
ABEL: I need a loan .
PETER FORENTE: You do n't want to do that .
ABEL: No shit but I 'm here .
PETER FORENTE: What are we talking about here .
ABEL: Six hundred thousand .
PETER FORENTE: Jesus . Abel , that 's a problem .
ABEL: Yes but if I do n't get it
PETER FORENTE: What 's my collateral ?
ABEL: The terminal .
PETER FORENTE: Yeah me and how many other people will be coming after it . No way .
ABEL: You 'll get your money .
PETER FORENTE: Abel , you know I respect everything you 've done . Because of it we have n't come down on you the way I should have for coming into my service area and poaching my customers . You 're good at what you do , probably better than us , and I accept that . But this would be different . I do n't want you to be in this position . We are not nice people to borrow three quarters of million dollars from .
ABEL: I know that .
PETER FORENTE: Let 's sleep on this . Both of us .
ANNA: What a day .
ABEL: Yeah .
ANNA: Are you okay ?
ABEL: Yes .
ANNA: Car chases ?
ABEL: Yeah .
ANNA: Who knew ? She gives him a loving look .
ABEL: He seemed good But the girls up at that place are
ANNA: Stop .
ABEL: I can tell you the girls did n't look like that where I went to school
ANNA: Enough .
ABEL: How are we here ?
ANNA: It was a lot of things all at once .
ABEL: Yeah .
ANNA: How did it go ?
ABEL: We can probably pull it off . Three different parties it 'll be a mess and the terms Pete suddenly showed me his true colors . He lets out a brutal sigh .
ANNA: I 'm sorry .
ABEL: I spent my whole life trying not to ecome a gangster
ANNA: I know .
ABEL: And now on the biggest deal in my career they will all control me .
ANNA: It 's a bank account . ABEL just waits for more but gets nothing .
ABEL: Whose ?
ANNA: Ours .
ABEL: How much is in it ?
ANNA: A lot .
ABEL: What does that mean ?
ANNA: It will help . You could replace Peter 's money and get him out of the deal .
ABEL: Where did it come from ?
ANNA: Abel .
ABEL: Where did it come from ? She stops and thinks , then
ANNA: Since 1971 I have been skimming money out of the company . Some years a little others a lot . In the beginning it was just in case times got tough but then it was ecause you were taking all these chances I did n't know what else to do I could n't risk having us e left with nothing . This knocks him back .
ABEL: What do you expect me to do with this ?
ANNA: Use it . Abel
ABEL: Is it clean ?
ANNA: What does that mean ? He thinks that through .
ABEL: It means if you walked into the office of the people who have been trying to put us in jail right now and slapped a check from that account down on their desk would it push me further into hell or help to get me out ?
ANNA: It 's as clean as every other dolla we 've ever made .
ABEL: That 's a fucking bullshit answer .
ANNA: I can clear it on the books .
ABEL: Well it sounds like you should take this money and keep it right where it is because I 'm going to pretend that we never had this conversation . And you can use that when they drag me off to jail !
ANNA: So what 's your plan here ? He turns to her and squares off .
ABEL: I 'll get it done . And it wo n't be as a cheat .
ANNA: Oh you are too much . You 've been walking around your whole life like this all happened because of you hard work , good luck , and charm . Mr. Fucking American Dream . Well this is America but it 's not a dream , and that was n't good luck helping you out all those years IT WAS ME ! Doing the things you did n't want to know about
ABEL: You stole from me !
ANNA: Oh You have always been very good about not letting your ego get in the way of business . Do n't start now just because it 's me .
ABEL: We 'll use the money your money . It 's the smart play .
ANNA: It 's our money .
ABEL: I know
ANNA: These fucking guyswhat 's this additional $ 11,000 ?
ABEL: I guess there is still some fuel in two of the tanks they gave us a fair price on it .
JOSEPH: Mazel Tov .
ANDREW WALSH: Congratulations .
ABEL: To you too . Did you knowabout the money ?
ANNA: Abel . ANDREW looks him right in the eye .
ANDREW WALSH: Yes .
ABEL: You should have told me .
ANDREW WALSH: I know . I 'm sorry .
ANNA: Abelcongratulations . Now chee up . And can someone give me a tou of this place we just paid two million bucks for ?
ABEL: No .
ANDREW WALSH: I do n't know why but I guess I never realized we even had this view from back here . That line sits for a long beat .
ABEL: I did .
JULIAN: I did n't .
ABEL: I see that .
JULIAN: I have nowhere to go .
ABEL: Nowhere easy .
JULIAN: Fuck you . I have nothing . And somehow you 've ended up with everything you wanted . ABEL looks at the gun in his hand .
ABEL: It was n't meant to be .
JULIAN: What is that supposed to mean ?
ABEL: I know what you wanted . But you need to forget that . You are looking backward . Only look forward , that is what you can control .
JULIAN: I 'm sorry . You gave me a very good chance . Right ?
ABEL: Yes .
JULIAN: Probably a better chance than I deserved .
ABEL: No .
JULIAN: Please take care of my family .
ABEL: Julian .
JULIAN: Please
ABEL: I will .
ANDREW WALSH: What what should we do ?
ABEL: We call the police .
ANDREW WALSH: Really ?
ABEL: Yes ! With that he walks off behind the tanks .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'm very sorry . Did you know him well ?
ABEL: I did .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: He must have been under a hell of a lot of pressure .
ABEL: Yeah . For a while I thought he was it 's just
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I 'm sorry . They look out across the city .
ABEL: You really do have to be lucky .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yes so you are chasing down hijackers now ?
ABEL: I was right there I could n't help myself . LAWRENCE nods approval .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: No .
ABEL: You 'll find him .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Probably not .
ABEL: Well , thank you for coming . I wanted to make sure this was handled correctly .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Of course .
ABEL: I 'm not sure how I got here .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: Yeah .
ABEL: So I should tell you that I wo n't be able to take that deal you offered . There is no way I would ever accept a felony charge fo anything we 've done .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I know .
ABEL: I am not a felon .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: That 's probably true .
ABEL: But I also ca n't have you digging around my life and keeping this hanging around my neck for the next ten years . I love fighting a good attle but this it 's very bad for my business . This gets Lawrence 's attention .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: We can probably do that .
ABEL: Good . They both look out for a beat .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I hear you closed on this terminal today ?
ABEL: It looks that way .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I did n't realize that you had that in the works .
ABEL: For a very long time .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: That will put you in quite a powerful position .
ABEL: Within my business it has that potential . LAWRENCE shifts his tone ever so slightly .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: If you get this place up and unning again it will have significant influence politically speaking .
ABEL: Yes .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: And sometimes we need help to get there You 've come a very long way .
ABEL: Yes , I have .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: In a very short time .
ABEL: It does n't feel that way But please know that I have always chosen the path that was the most ight .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: The most right ?
ABEL: Yes .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: That one makes my head hurt a little .
ABEL: The result is never in question fo me . Just what path do I take to get there . And I have never questioned my path . There is always one that is most right . And that is what this is .
A.D.A. LAWRENCE: I hope so .
THUNDEROUS: FUCKING RUSH
FIRST OFFICER: You sign , na !
BILLY: I ca n't read Thai .
FIRST OFFICER: SIGN !
FIRST OFFICER: You steal , na .
BILLY: I bought those .
FIRST OFFICER: Drug dealer .
BILLY: No .
FIRST OFFICER: Yaba Death for you .
BILLY: Nofuck no .
FIRST OFFICER: For the weapons and phones .
BILLY: the Embassy
FIRST OFFICER: They no help you .
BILLY: I do n't speak Thai .
ELYIAS: Can make pain go ` way
ELYIAS: Me name Elyias . You sick , yes ? Billy nods , in great pain
BILLY: I 'll sit somewhere else . Guard # 2 shouts in Thai .
TIFFANY: No worry . Tomorrow he go . Many , many happy .
BILLY: Keep fuckin ' back ! And tuck that tackle in or I 'll fuckin ' rip it off .
TIFFANY: You like smokey ?
BILLY: ThanksYou speak good English .
TIFFANY: I speak nit-noy . I speak a little it .
BILLY: So what happened to him ?
TIFFANY: Who knows ? Just die , maybe two hour . You want his bed ? All yours .
BILLY: What about a pillow ? Blanket ? Some fuckin ' food I can eat ?
TIFFANY: Need money . Five hundred baht Lady- Boy sew you blanket . Prison shop sell food . All inmate work fo guards or other inmate to survive . No money ? You die like him . And a loud WHISTLE BLOWS .
GUARD #1: Farang , number you !
BILLY: Six ?
GUARD #1: In Thai !
BILLY: I do n't know
GUARD #1: Hok !
BILLY: Hok .
GUARD #1: Hok ! !
BILLY: Hok ! !
ELYIAS: YabaTiger . Horse . More you use , more you need Billy , in some otherworldy place .
BILLY: The fuck are you on about ?
ELYIAS: Now time , you pay me .
BILLY: I 'll pay when I can .
ELYIAS: Must pay now . No money , you pay other way
BILLY: I do n't do that . Fuck off .
ELYIAS: Then me sell your debt to supplier `` the Samurai . ''
KIAW: Okay , farang . You sleep here . Billy sits .
BILLY: Billy .
KIAW: Me hear of you
BILLY: Yeah , what 'd you hear ?
KIAW: That you crazy foreigner . Farang , a. I like that . Kiaw friend to you
KIAW: Now you .
BILLY: Fuck that .
KIAW: Best high like this . Billy , ill at ease , contemplates , then .
BILLY: I 'm sorrysorry , I did n't
NIGERIAN: Tramadol . Good for pain .
BILLY: Yeah ? It 's enough to do damage ?
NIGERIAN: Not like Dilaudid or Roxinol . But good enough .
BILLY: I 'm Billy Moore . What 's your name ?
NIGERIAN: Black Dildo .
BILLY: `` Black Dildo ? '' Got a Christian name , have n't you ?
BLACK DILDO: Free to all . Help get prisoners clean . Billy nods ;
BILLY: Where 's me pills ?
TRUSTEE #3: You pay .
BILLY: `` Pay ? '' The hell you mean ? It 's free , is n't it ?
TRUSTEE #3: You , farang . Pay five pack cigarette .
BILLY: What ? !
BLACK DILDO: Come back tomorrow . You no want trouble here .
BILLY: No , no . It 's alright , Dildo . I got this
TRUSTEE #3: No pill for you !
BILLY: I NEED these pills Trustee # 4 shouts in Thai again .
TRUSTEE #3: He say you go now !
BLACK DILDO: STOP ! CALM DOWN ! NO MORE !
BILLY: Okay ! Alright , Dildo . I 'm calm . I 'm calmed down .
TRUSTEE #6: Hey , farang . You no good boxer . Fight very bad .
BILLY: help me
JOM: You okay ? Billy is n't .
BILLY: Are you sayin ' I 'm not ?
JOM: So you like fight ? Billy is quiet , morose .
JOM: I spend next thirty-five years of my life herevery much afraid . I had boyfriend , say he love me . Then he lie and cheat , and I slit his throat when he beat me . Billy is silent .
JOM: Hello . How I can help you ?
BILLY: cigarettes
JOM: Five dollar .
BILLY: Can I buy ` em on credit ? Jom looks at him .
JOM: I know
BILLY: I never thanked you for fixin ' me head . So Billy nods `` thanks . ''
JOM: You want , I can be your sexy girlfriend
BILLY: `` Hi Billy .
KIAW: Someone killed
BILLY: Those are n't mine .
TRUSTEE'S VOICE: William Moore , yat yeimWilliam Moore , yat yeim No sign of Billy . Instead , he
NINDAM: Billyyou hear me ? Billy 's mouth moves no words come out .
BILLY: bye .
BILLY: Will you mail this ? Pi Sit does n't move .
JOM: Hi , Billy ! Missed you ! Long time , I thought you got eleased
BILLY: I , uhI need cigarettes . A lot of ` em .
JOM: You need for drugs ? Billy looks at Muscular Trustee .
BILLY: No , it 's not for that . Not this time .
JOM: I believe you .
BILLY: You speak English ?
NAN: Some .
BILLY: Let me train , and they 're yours .
NAN: Chok !
BILLY: Boxing , six years . As a kid , I won the Northwest area in England .
NAN: No Muay Thai ?
BILLY: Not much .
NAN: Father train you ?
BILLY: When he used me as a punching bag , I might 've learned some .
NAN: Why you want fight ? You in danger ?
BILLY: It helps me forget where I am . When the gloves are on , I do n't have pain .
NAN: Drugs no do that ?
BILLY: I do n't want to die . Nan stares at himnods . Then
NAN: One hundred years .
JOM: Hello , Billy ! How my Westerne oyfriend ?
BILLY: You do n't need to send me no more love letters . Jom 's smile falls .
NAN: You know what is Songkran ?
BILLY: No .
NAN: Thai New Year . In three weeks all prison celebratesBoxers fight to qualify for National tournament . Off Billy 's look
BILLY: The fuck ? Is the scale broke ?
BLACK DILDO: Lady-boys and gentlemen , iiiiittt 's
BILLY: How bad is it ? Is it bad ?
NAN: Not good .
BILLY: His elbow done it , the cunt .
NAN: Next round not for you . Your ea almost come off .
BILLY: Fuck that . I got another one .
NAN: Still there .
THAI BOXER: Hey Crazy farang , why you in prison ?
BILLY: Drugs
THAI BOXER: What kind ?
BILLY: All of ` em . The Team laughs . Billy ca n't help but smile .
THAI BOXER: No , I no do drugsI just kill .
LEK: Do you have father ? Billy pauses , then nods `` yes . ''
BILLY: nowe do n't talk anymore .
KIAW: When I heal .
BILLY: I have n't got time for this .
KIAW: Your hair look good
BILLY: What ?
KIAW: You take my shampoo bottle smoke all heroin inside it . Billy 's silent . Then
BILLY: So ? You was gon na throw me to the guardsNow we 're even .
KIAW: That heroin belong to Samurai . Cost much money !
BILLY: That 's your problem Kiaw persists , getting angry
KIAW: You pay now .
BILLY: I do n't owe you nothin ' .
KIAW: You know I have AIDS . You pay my debt to Samurai or I inject you with my blood .
JOM: You good fighters , not bad . My father want me to be Muay Thai , like him .
GERMAN INMATE: Well me , I like to fuck ` em younger . Much youngerDick or no dick , it do n't matter .
JOM: You , Westerner what you problem ? !
GERMAN INMATE: I have n't got a problem , I 've got cigarettes . Are you going to low me or not ? !
BILLY: Shut your mouth , or I 'll bash your fuckin ' skull in , nob head ! Jom is frozen . Surprised . But also flattered .
GERMAN INMATE: Fuck off , faggot !
BILLY: Open your eyes He does n't .
BILLY: You , you 're just a whore !
JOM: You make everything bad ! You fucking junkie ! Will never change ! You think too much ! Mi dong kit mak !
NAN: Ram Muaybefore each fight , we pledge respect to spirits .
BILLY: I 'm no dancer .
NAN: Can no compete tournament without .
BILLY: I `` believe . ''
NAN: No ! When you at peace , can control anything , and win . Anger lose everything .
BILLY: Pom chuu Billy khrap ? Khoun chuu aray ? . Noi giggles .
NAN: Tournament very soon . Must train twice as hard now . Do n't disappoint me . Billy nods , quietly comes alive .
BILLY: I forgot cigarettes .
NAN: I no more smoke . Bad for health .
BILLY: You need new shoes Noi does n't respond .
NOI: Roo lao !
BILLY: Pom Ja sue longtow mai hai khun na .
NAN: Faster ! Let hands and feet go ! Billy takes a labored breath , nods .
NAN: You okay ?
BILLY: yeah
NAN: Fear is good for fight . Like fire , inside you .
DR. ADI: Mr. Moore , I am Dr. Adi .
BILLY: Never seen you here before
DR. ADI: I come once a month to give medical aid to foreigners .
BILLY: I 'm not sure .
DR. ADI: You have a delineation of the esophagus .
BILLY: A what ?
DR. ADI: It 's a tear . Primary cause drug and alcohol abuse . Through years of this , it 's worn away the lining of your esophagus .
BILLY: Well I 'm sober now .
DR. ADI: You need to stay that way .
BILLY: So can I get out of hereget back to the gym ?
DR. ADI: You need to heal . After , exercise is good , but only moderate .
BILLY: I 've got a tournament comin ' up Muay Thai .
DR. ADI: Make other plans .
BILLY: Doc , I 'm in prison . I have n't got no `` other plans . ''
DR. ADI: Boxing is what caused the rupture . You vomited blood because you had at least a pint in there . Any more trauma , and you could hemorrhage . You 'll bleed to death . Billy looks at him . Dr. Adi starts to write on his clipboard .
BILLY: I 'll just , I 'll keep my guard up .
DR. ADI: Mr. Moore
BILLY: I 'll watch my pace .
DR. ADI: Mr. Moore . You must never fight again .
NAN: Nong Chai , Kub pai tum ngan khun na krub .
BILLY: fuck
BILLY: NO ! NO !
KENG: You have tournament come up , yes ? Billy frozen , wide-eyed , nods .
BILLY: They all here for the fight ?
NAN: Only boxers go to tournament .
BILLY: So where they headed ?
NAN: Some get transfer . Others go to death house .
NAN: It 's time .
BILLY: He 's too strong !
NAN: Breathe , Billy . Have calm .
BILLY: I ca n't keep him off me !
NAN: You can !
BILLY: No
NAN: Remember what I teach you ! Remember what you fight for !
NAN: You okay , Billy ? ! You alright ? !
BILLY: yeah
NAN: You SEE , Billy ? ! You FEEL it ? ! Muay Thai in HERE And HERE Now , FIGHT ! Khun samarth chna !
BILLY: I wo n't !
NAN: No go down , Billy ! Need last round to win !
BILLY: Okay .
NAN: Okay ? !
BILLY: Okay ! !
TRUSTEE'S VOICE: William Moore , yat yeimWilliam Moore , yat yeim .
GUARD: Sorry , Mister Moore . We no can find your son .
MR. MOORE: It 's okay . I 'll come back .
BILLY: Nurse . ` Think I should go to the loo .
DOCTOR: Going down ?
YOUNG PHARMACIST: Can I help you ? Billy just stands there . Staring . Realizes
BILLY: no
LEE: You 're alright .
MARCUS: You still love her , right ?
LEE: Of Of course I do . Pause .
MARCUS: You should tell her .
LEE: It 's ok . It 's ok ! Your safe .
EVELYN: It worked ?
LEE: It worked .
EVELYN: It worked it worked
LEE: I 'll find them .
EVELYN: Them ? ! EVELYN immediately tenses .
LEE: Rockets . EVELYN pauses .
EVELYN: Then he then he 's still there . He 'd know to
LEE: I 'm sure he is .
EVELYN: She 's smart she 'll have found a place to She 's smart
LEE: It 's a boy .
EVELYN: It 's a boy . Pause .
LEE: Evelyn
EVELYN: Who are we ? if we ca n't protect them . Who are we ?
LEE: I will .
EVELYN: Promise me . We ca n't You need to protect them .
NURSERY CLERK: Eating the bushes ? Could be aphids .
JERRY FABIN: Aphids ! Of course . Y'know , I started with `` A '' in my cyclopedia , yet somehow I must 've skipped right over aphids . It does start with `` A '' , right ? Aphids ?
NURSERY CLERK: Yes . Yes , it does , sir .
JERRY FABIN: Boy , those fuckers can really bite .
NURSERY CLERK: Aphids do n't bite people . Fabin just stares at the clerk .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey , Jerry , I was in the neighborhood looking to score , and I thought What the fuck are you doing in the shower with the goddamn dog ?
JERRY FABIN: I got to get the aphids .
CHARLES FRECK: I do n't see any aphids . What 's an aphid ?
JERRY FABIN: It eventually kills you . That 's what an aphid is . Freck nods sympathetically .
CHARLES FRECK: How come I ca n't see them though ?
JERRY FABIN: I 'll find an especially big one , cause they 're hard for many people to see .
CHARLES FRECK: Wow ! That is a big one !
JERRY FABIN: Help me find more for the doctor to see .
CHARLES FRECK: What do we get for these ? I mean , does the doctor pay a bounty o something ? A prize ? Any bread ?
JERRY FABIN: I get to help perfect a cure for them .
CHARLES FRECK: Jerry , these bugs sort of scare me . I do n't like it here by myself .
JERRY FABIN: You 're a chickenshit bastard , Freck .
CHARLES FRECK: Could n't you
JERRY FABIN: I got to take a leak and like that !
CHARLES FRECK: Can I wash them off and wait for you ?
FAT BUSINESSMAN: Gentlemen , we have a wonderful opportunity this afternoon . The county of Orange has provided us with the chance to hear from and put questions to an undercove narcotics agent from the Sheriff 's Office .
BOB ARCTOR: Nitwits . Pathetic , soulless morons .
FAT BUSINESSMAN: This man whom we will call Fred , ecause that is the code name unde which he reports the information he
FRED: If you saw me on the street , you 'd say , `` There goes a weirdo freak doper . '' And you 'd feel aversion and walk away .
BOB ARCTOR: What I fear , is that our children , your children and my children
BOB ARCTOR: calculatedly addicted , for profit , y those who would destroy this society . We do not yet know who these animals are who pray on our young , but one day we will .
FRED: We believe there is one source fo Substance D and a diversified distribution system making it accessible in all major drug using areas . It my job as an undercove officer to attain the confidence of low level dealers and work my way up through the network to arrive at the drug 's source . Now , the profits for
BOB ARCTOR: Well , it is n't the profits anyhow . It 's something else what you see
HEADPHONE VOICE: I think you 'd better go back to the prepared text , Fred .
BOB ARCTOR: I forgot it .
HEADPHONE VOICE: Riiight . I 'll read it to you . Repeat it after me , but try to make it sound casual . `` Each day the profits flow . Where they go we will soon determine . ''
BOB ARCTOR: I got a block against this stuff .
HEADPHONE VOICE: `` Then retribution will swiftly follow . And at that moment , for the life of me , I would not be in their shoes . ''
BOB ARCTOR: You know why I 've got a block against this stuff ? Because this bullshit is what gets people on dope .
FRED: `` D '' is for Substance D. Which is fo Dumbness , Despair , and Desertion , the desertion of your friends from you , you from them , everyone from everyone , isolation and loneliness and hating and suspecting each other . D is finally death . Slow Death , we we the dopers call it
BOB ARCTOR: Slow Death . From the head on down . Well , that 's it .
HEADPHONE VOICE: See me in my office when you get back .
FAT BUSINESSMAN: I forgot to tell you that Fred asked me in advance to make this lecture primarily a Q and A forum with only a short introductory statement . So any questions ? Arctor stands .
BOB ARCTOR: Just this . Do n't kick their asses after they 're on it . Half of them , especially the girls , did n't know they were getting on anything at all . See , the pushers dissolve some reds in a glass of wine , they give the booze to an underage little chick , she passes out , then they inject her with a mex hit half heroin , half Substance D. Thank you .
FRED: Kill the pushers .
CHARLES FRECK: Can you lay about ten Deaths on me ?
TELEPHONE VOICE: Christ , I 'm looking to score myself .
CHARLES FRECK: Christ . Christ . Christ Christ Christ .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey !
DONNA HAWTHORNE: No . Get lost .
CHARLES FRECK: Sure you are . I met you at his place .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I thought you were going to knock me down and bang me .
CHARLES FRECK: No . I just wondered if you , like , wanted a ride or Bang you on the sidewalk ? In broad daylight ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I thought you might pull me into a doorway or something .
CHARLES FRECK: I know you . Besides Arctor would snuff me if I did that .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Well , I did n't recognize you . I 'm sort of nearsighted .
CHARLES FRECK: You want a ride where you 're going ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You 'll bang me in the car .
CHARLES FRECK: Nah . Besides I ca n't get it up these days . Must be something they 're adulterating all the stuff with .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: That 's a neat-o line , but I 've heard it before . Everybody bangs me . At least they try to . That 's what it 's like to be a chick .
CHARLES FRECK: That really sucks .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I 'm suing one guy right now fo molestation and assault . We 're asking punitive damages in excess of forty thousand .
CHARLES FRECK: How far he get ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: A hand around my boob .
CHARLES FRECK: That 's not worth forty thousand .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I can get it .
CHARLES FRECK: Tabs , though . I do n't shoot up . Needles are a bummer to me .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Sixty dollars a hundred .
CHARLES FRECK: Jeez , man , that 's a burn .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: They 're super good . Take my word .
CHARLES FRECK: All right . A hundred , then .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Cool . How do I get in touch ?
CHARLES FRECK: Charles B. Freck
DONNA HAWTHORNE: V. Freck ?
CHARLES FRECK: Charles Freck .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I think I remember you now .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey , you want to go with me to see Jerry Fabin ? I 'm hauling some of his stuff over to the Number Three Federal Clinic where they took him last night .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I better not . Jerry thinks I contaminated him originally with those ugs .
CHARLES FRECK: They 're aphids .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Yeah , well , then he did n't know what they were .
BOB ARCTOR: Fucking McDonaldburger 's is taking over .
BOB ARCTOR: Oh , wow .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You know what the male wolf does when he defeats a foe ? He does n't snuff him . He pees on him ! Then he splits .
BOB ARCTOR: I peed on some people today .
BOB ARCTOR: Well , a pig is a chick that
BOB ARCTOR: I 'm in a bad place . I wan na turn myself in for treatment .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey , Barris , I 'm thinking of turning myself in to New-Path . Barris does n't seem at all interested .
JIM BARRIS: No shit .
CHARLES FRECK: But it 's tough , that cold turkey thing they do . They watch you night and day so you do n't snuff . But they neve give you anything , like a doctor will , like Valium or like that .
JIM BARRIS: Hey , what kind of bread is this on the patty melt , anyway ?
CHARLES FRECK: Look on the menu . It explains everything .
JIM BARRIS: If you go into New-Path , you 'll experience symptoms that emanate up from the basic fluids of the body , specifically those located in the ain . By that I refer to the catecholamines , such as noradrenaline and serotonin . You see , Substance D functions this way it interacts with the catecholamines in such a fashion that involement is locked in at a subcellular level . Biological counteradaptation has occurred . Nine-grain wheat .
WAITRESS: So is everything good , fellas ?
JIM BARRIS: Say , is your name Patty ?
WAITRESS: No . It 's Beth .
CHARLES FRECK: I wonder what the left one 's called .
WAITRESS: I 'm sorry , hon ?
CHARLES FRECK: No . Nothing .
JIM BARRIS: The waitress we had last time was named Patty . Same as the sandwich .
WAITRESS: That must have been a different Patty from the sandwich . I think she spells it with an i .
JIM BARRIS: Everything is super good .
CHARLES FRECK: Everything is not good with me . I got a lot of problems nobody else has .
WAITRESS: Oh , no . That 's too bad .
JIM BARRIS: More people than you think have such problems . This is a world of illness , and getting progressively worse .
WAITRESS: So would you guys like to orde dessert ? We have fresh peach pie .
CHARLES FRECK: No ! No , we do n't want any dessert !
BOB ARCTOR: This place is the only hope I could think of . I had a friend come in here . A black dude , in his thirties
JIM BARRIS: Tell me , why the debate regarding turning yourself in for residence therapy at a drug rehab facility ?
CHARLES FRECK: My friend Jerry Fabin and his aphids .
JIM BARRIS: Fabin was a special case .
CHARLES FRECK: There 's another reason . I 'm running low again , and I ca n't stand this always running low and not knowing if I 'm ever going to score again . Actually , though , I may have a new source . That Donna chick .
JIM BARRIS: Oh , Bob 's girl .
CHARLES FRECK: His old lady .
JIM BARRIS: No . He never got into her pants .
CHARLES FRECK: Really ? Ca n't Bob get it on ?
JIM BARRIS: It 's possible Donna 's on junk . He aversion to bodily contact junkies lose interest in sex , you see , due to their organs swelling up from vasoconstriction . And Donna shows inordinate failure of sexual arousal , not just to Bob , but to other males as well .
CHARLES FRECK: I never shot smack . Needles are a ummer to me .
JIM BARRIS: But I can show you how to lay Donna for ninety-eight cents .
CHARLES FRECK: I do n't want to lay her . I just want to buy from her .
JIM BARRIS: Donna does coke . Anybody who would give her a gram of coke she would undoubtedly spread her legs for .
CHARLES FRECK: I wish you would n't talk that way . Besides who has the money to procure a gram of coke ?
JIM BARRIS: I , my friend , can derive a gram of coke for a total cost to me of unde one dollar . From a product readily available at your neighborhood 7-11 .
CHARLES FRECK: That 's bullshit .
JIM BARRIS: That 's a fine 7-11 .
CHARLES FRECK: Although what about the one on 8th ? They have the wider aisles . A more spacious shopping experience .
JIM BARRIS: Let 's not forget the one on Katella with the foxy cashier to hit on .
CHARLES FRECK: What 's with Bob 's cephscope , his prize possession of the entire world ?
JIM BARRIS: Oh , it 's been sabotaged by person o persons unknown .
CHARLES FRECK: This is super unreal . I 'm flipping .
JIM BARRIS: Now I 'll freeze it , which causes the cocaine crystals to rise to the top ecause they are lighter than air . Barris pours the slime into a jar .
CHARLES FRECK: Even if you do get a gram of coke out of thisl , I ca n't use it to get into Donna 's pants . That 's like buying her .
JIM BARRIS: You give her a gift she gives you one . The most precious gift a woman has .
CHARLES FRECK: You 're talking about Bob Arctor 's girl , Barris . He 's my friend and the guy you and Luckman live with .
JIM BARRIS: There 's a great deal about Bob Arcto you 're not aware of . Your view is simplistic and naive , and you believe about him what he wants you to .
CHARLES FRECK: I do not .
HANK: That covers Barris and Freck . Let 's see , I guess we can write Jerry Fabin off .
FRED: I read his EEG analysis . Fabin 's over .
HANK: Good riddance . Any luck locating ou missing pusher friend Spade Weeks ?
FRED: New-Path would n't tell me shit . They 're very protective of their own .
HANK: Junkies , ex-junkies . It 's a club . What about Donna Hawthorne ?
FRED: I keep pumping her for more and more Death . Pretty soon she 'll have to efer me up to her source .
HANK: Fine . And what 's Arctor up to ?
BOB ARCTOR: Bob Arctor ? He 's not doing anything much . Working at his nowhere Blue Chip Stamp job , dropping a few tabs of meth cut with Death during the day .
HANK: That 's not what I hear . Arctor studies the vague blankness of Hank .
BOB ARCTOR: What do you mean ?
HANK: We have a tip that Arctor has funds above and beyond what he makes at the stamp redemption center . We move outside the suit and see Fred .
FRED: No shit , Hank . Is that true ?
HANK: And according to this information , Arctor comes and goes mysteriously . Have you observed any of this ?
FRED: Most likely he 's with his chick , Donna .
HANK: Most likely ? You 're supposed to know .
FRED: Yeah , it 's Donna . He 's over there anging her day and night . But I 'll let you know . So , who 's the informant ?
HANK: Hell , we do n't know . No voice print . He used one of those rinky-dink grids .
FRED: Christ , it 's that burned-out acid head Barris doing a schizy grudge job on Arctor 's head . I would n't give him the time of day as an informant .
HANK: We do n't know it 's Barris . Anyway , there may be more to Barris than meets the eye . We 're looking into him . Nothing I feel would be of use to you , at least so far .
FRED: Well , it 's one of Arctor 's friends .
HANK: Yeah . Undoubtedly a vengeance burn trip . But we need to know why Arctor 's making these kind of enemies .
FRED: Hank , I do n't see this as an avenue of
HANK: So I 'm taking you off Spade and , fo the time being , I 'm assigning you primarily to observe Bob Arctor .
FRED: You 're assigning me to watch Arctor ?
HANK: Covertly funded , covertly engaged , Fred . It 's worth checking into .
BOB ARCTOR: Fine . So I assume this means you 'll e bugging Arctor 's house and car ?
HANK: With the new holographic scanne system . This way you can study Arctor 's every move on the tapes , and eport back to us in detail .
FRED: Sounds good , then .
HANK: Good . You 'll need to get Arctor and the boys away from the house so we can install the equipment .
CHARLES FRECK: Why do you need a silencer , anyway , Jim ? I mean , they 're illegal .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Law abidance has always been of the utmost concern to Jim Barris .
JIM BARRIS: In this day and age , with the kind of degenerate society we live in and the depravity of the individual , every person of worth needs a gun at all times . To protect himself .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Just shut up and fire off the great eleven cent silencer of our times .
TELEVISION JINGLE: It 's real , it 's Coke , it 's really , eally real . Really really really
WIFE: Popcorn and Cokes , guys ?
DAUGHTERS: Yay , Popcorn and Cokes !
BOB ARCTOR: AH , FUCK ! !
WIFE: Oh my God !
BOB ARCTOR: FUCK !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Jesus , Barris . Y'know , you 're supposed to be fixing the cephscope . Bob 's lying in his bed right now thinking you 're fixing his cephscope .
JIM BARRIS: Hey , Bob . I thought you 'd be sleeping .
BOB ARCTOR: Why the fuck would I screw up my own cephscope ?
JIM BARRIS: No , no . You are looking at the person who did it . That was my complete , intended statement , which I was not allowed to utter .
BOB ARCTOR: You did it ?
JIM BARRIS: I mean it 's my theory that I did it . Under post-hypnotic suggestion . With an amnesia block so I would n't remembe
BOB ARCTOR: Oh , Jesus , Barris . Go fuck yourself .
JIM BARRIS: Do n't you see , Bob , I 've got the advanced , specialized , technical , electronic skills . I have access , ecause I live here . It all fits . What I ca n't figure out is my motive .
BOB ARCTOR: How about , you 're a fucked-up lunatic ?
JIM BARRIS: I might have been hired by secret forces . It could be as big as that , Bob . As huge as that .
BOB ARCTOR: Get lost .
JIM BARRIS: Oh , hold on , Bob . I forgot something . I forgot my antihistamine capsules .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Jim Barris does not have allergies .
BOB ARCTOR: You guys track down Andy and the hot scope . I 'll pick you up in two hours .
JIM BARRIS: And where are you off to ?
BOB ARCTOR: Dropping in on a friend .
JIM BARRIS: Mysterious Bob Arctor .
KIMBERLY: Yes ?
BOB ARCTOR: It 's me , Kimberly . Bob Arctor .
KIMBERLY: Dan and I had a fight and he split .
BOB ARCTOR: He beat you up ?
KIMBERLY: Thank God he did n't have his knife . His case-knife , which he now carries in a sheath on his belt .
BOB ARCTOR: Do you want him back ?
KIMBERLY: Well Who knows ? Arctor looks out the window at the street .
BOB ARCTOR: How long can you go without ?
KIMBERLY: Maybe . Maybe . Another day .
BOB ARCTOR: Ca n't you get it anywhere else ? Y'know the name of Dan 's supplier ? Maybe you could deal directly .
KIMBERLY: I dunno .
BOB ARCTOR: Yeah .
KIMBERLY: Probably has his case-knife with him . Y'know , he keeps it in a sheath on his elt now .
BOB ARCTOR: You should call the police .
KIMBERLY: No phone .
BOB ARCTOR: Kim , he 'll kill you .
KIMBERLY: No . I 'm with someone .
DAN: I 'll slash your tires , your fucking tires ! And then I 'll kill you !
KIMBERLY: I got to stop him ! I do n't have insurance ! Arctor grabs her , tries to hold her back .
BOB ARCTOR: Tires are n't
KIMBERLY: My tires !
BOB ARCTOR: That 's what he wants you to do .
KIMBERLY: Downstairs . They have a phone ! Let me go !
KIMBERLY: Open , please ? Please ? I need to call the police . Please let me call them .
BOB ARCTOR: Thank you .
KIMBERLY: Hi , yeah , my boyfriend and me got into a fight because of these cowboy boots which were worth seven dollars . See , I said , they 're mine , and he says , no , they 're mine 'cause you gave them to me as a present . And I say but I ought them . Which makes them mine . Right ? So he grabs 'em and I gra 'em , and I rip the backs of them with this can opener and yes , I 'll hold .
ARCTOR: This must be bad on you .
OLD MAN: It goes on all the time , them fighting , him saying he 'll kill her .
OLD WOMAN: We should have gone back to Denver . I told you that .
OLD MAN: These terrible fights . On and on . Smashing things and screaming . And what 's worse , every time
OLD WOMAN: Yes , tell him about that .
OLD MAN: Every time we go out , shopping or to mail a letter , we step in what dogs leave .
OLD WOMAN: Dog doo .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: You ought to pass that truck , man . The humper 's hardly moving .
JIM BARRIS: What the hell happened , Bob ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: The linkage from the pedal to the ca fell apart .
BOB ARCTOR: Should n't this locking ring hold the nut in place ?
JIM BARRIS: The idle screw has been turned all the way out . So when the linkage parted , the override went up instead of down .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Could it screw itself all the way out like that accidentally ?
JIM BARRIS: No . A special tool would be needed . A couple , in fact . I have the tools to fix this , but back at the house . Is Barris saying he did it ? Arctor looks over at Barris .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Hey , man , did this happen by accident or was it done deliberately ? Like the cephscope .
JIM BARRIS: It 's hard to say . You should 've cut the ignition as soon as you realized what happened .
BOB ARCTOR: For a second I could n't figure it out .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: MOTHERFUCKER ! Somebody did this intentionally ! They fucking almost killed us !
BOB ARCTOR: Maybe this is what 's fucking us up , messing up our brains .
JIM BARRIS: Dope ca n't screw up a carb-idle adjustment , my friend . You 'd better take at least three of these . They 're primo , but mild .
BOB ARCTOR: Put the fucking snuffbox away !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Hey , do you smell something , man ? A clue ? Some engine smell that
BOB ARCTOR: Dog shit ! Do you smell dog shit ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: No . Were there any psychedelics in that dope ?
BOB ARCTOR: It 's an illusion , right ? There 's no dog shit smell . How could there be dog shit in the eng
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Hey , man , you 're getting a flashback .
JIM BARRIS: Free theater tickets .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Now just take it easy . Nobody got killed and now we 're warned . It 's okay . It 's okay . Everything 's okay . Arctor closes his eyes .
JIM BARRIS: Hey , Bob , want a lump of dog shit ? To chew on ?
BOB ARCTOR: What , Jim ? What 'd you say ? Barris begins to laugh and laugh .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Leave him alone , man . Fuck off .
BOB ARCTOR: What did Barris say just now ? What the hell exactly did he just say ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I do n't know , man . I ca n't figure out half the things he lays on people .
BOB ARCTOR: You goddamn Barris ! I know you did it , screwed over the cephscope and now my car ! You kinky freak mothe astard !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Take it easy , Bob .
BOB ARCTOR: I know it 's him , man . I know .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: That does n't make any sense . He 'd have snuffed himself too .
JIM BARRIS: Hell , I took some too . And so did you . Did n't give us a bad trip . Besides it was so soon . Your stomach ca n't even absorb Arctor 's head jerks up to face Barris .
BOB ARCTOR: YOU FUCKING POISONED ME !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I wonder what 's been going on back at the house .
BOB ARCTOR: Yeah , I hope .
JIM BARRIS: Oh , I would n't worry too much about that , gents .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Christ , Barris , they may have ripped off everything we got , or stomped all our animals , or
JIM BARRIS: But I left a little surprise fo anyone entering the house . An electronic surprise , if you will .
BOB ARCTOR: What kind of surprise ? It 's my house , Jim , you ca n't start rigging up
JIM BARRIS: Easy . Be cool .
BOB ARCTOR: Well , what is it ?
JIM BARRIS: If the front door is opened , my tape ecorder starts recording .
BOB ARCTOR: You should 've told me .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: What if they come in the window o through the back door ?
JIM BARRIS: To increase the chance of them making their entry via the front door , I providentially left it unlocked . They drive in silence .
BOB ARCTOR: Well , they 're not going to expect it to be unlocked , so they 'll go in the window .
JIM BARRIS: But I put a note on the front door .
BOB ARCTOR: You 're jiving me .
JIM BARRIS: Yes .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Are you fucking jiving us or not ? I ca n't tell with you , man . Is he jiving us or not , Bob ?
BOB ARCTOR: We 'll see when we get back . If there 's a note on the door and it 's unlocked , we 'll know he 's not jiving us . More silence .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: But they 'd probably take the note down and lock the door after vandalizing and robbing us . So we 'll never know . It 's that gray area again . Damn it !
JIM BARRIS: Of course I 'm kidding , guys ! Only a psychotic would leave the front doo open with a note on it . Silence .
BOB ARCTOR: So what did you write on the note , Jim ?
JIM BARRIS: I wrote `` Donna , come on in , the door 's unlocked . We '' The note 's to Donna .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: He did do that . He really did it .
JIM BARRIS: This way , we 'll know who 's been messing with us , Bob . And that is of prime importance .
BOB ARCTOR: Jesus , Barris .
JIM BARRIS: Interesting . Everything is exactly as we left it . They 're very clever .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Well , Barris , I can see you 're right . There was definitely someone here . You see , the scrupulous covering-over of all signs they otherwise would 've left testifies to their Barris , you 're one paranoid fuck .
JIM BARRIS: Look at this !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: A still-hot butt . It sure is .
BOB ARCTOR: My God , who was here ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Wait , this is what 's hot . They lit a joint . But what 'd they do ? What the fuck did they do ?
JIM BARRIS: That roach may not be a slip-up . Maybe they were here specifically to plant dope , then phone in a tip later . Maybe there 's dope planted all ove this house . We 're going to have to go through and get this place clean .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I 'll check the wall sockets . You take apart the tv and stereo .
JIM BARRIS: Wait . If they see us scrambling around efore the raid
BOB ARCTOR: What raid ?
JIM BARRIS: then we ca n't allege , even though it 's true , that we did n't know the dope was there . Maybe that , too , is part of their ingenious plan .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: We 're fucked ! We ca n't do anything !
BOB ARCTOR: Did you forget about the recorder , Jim ?
JIM BARRIS: Oh yes . The tape should be extremely informational at this point . Well , it probably would n't ultimately have proven that important .
BOB ARCTOR: Forget to turn it on , did you ?
JIM BARRIS: No . The first thing they did upon entering was switch it to `` off '' .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: It 's off ? Fuck ! Those fuckers .
JIM BARRIS: They made their move swiftly , before so much as an inch of tape pasesd through the recording head .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Now what ? Now what the fuck do we do ?
JIM BARRIS: You know , Bob , there is one thing you could do , although it would take time .
BOB ARCTOR: Sell the house ? Barris nods gravely .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Does anybody know a good realtor ?
JIM BARRIS: I 've got an acquaintance in the field . Barris and Luckman look at Arctor .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: We should probably act fast , man .
JIM BARRIS: We do n't know how fast they 're gon na swoop down on us .
BOB ARCTOR: What reason should we give for selling ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Yeah , we ca n't tell the truth . We need a shuck . Barris , what 's a good shuck ?
BOB ARCTOR: We 'll just flat out say there 's narcotics planted all over the place and since we do n't know where , we decided to move out and let the new owner get busted instead of us .
JIM BARRIS: No . I do n't think we can afford to be that up front . Bob , you say you got a job transfer .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Where to , though ? Where the fuck to ?
JIM BARRIS: Cleveland .
BOB ARCTOR: I say we tell them the truth . In fact , we can put an ad in the Times `` Modern , three bedroom tract house , two bathrooms for easy flushing , with high grade dope stashed in all rooms . '' It 's a selling point .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: But they 'd be calling asking what kind of dope , and we do n't know . Man !
JIM BARRIS: Or how much . Prospective buyers might inquire about the quantity .
BOB ARCTOR: They appear to have us .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Christ , this is awful !
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Hey , I came in , like the note said . I waited for you for awhile , then I crashed . Why are you guys yelling ? The three guys look at each other .
BOB ARCTOR: Did you smoke a joint ? Before you crashed ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Of course . Otherwise I ca n't sleep . You should n't leave your place unlocked like that . You could get ipped off and it would be your own fault . That 's the main reason I came in when I saw the note . Somebody ought to be here if the place is unlocked with a note on it .
BOB ARCTOR: How long have you been here ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Well , you could 've taken down the note , locked the door , and left .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Approximately thirty-eight minutes . Hey , Bob , I got that wolf book , if you want to see it . It 's got a lot of heavy shit in it . Barris falls back into a ratty easy chair .
JIM BARRIS: Life is only heavy and none else ; heavy that leads to the grave . Fo everyone and everything .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Did you say you were selling the house ? Or was that me dreaming ?
BOB ARCTOR: Shit , I hope it was you dreaming .
HANK: Here are the locations of the eight scanners . We transmit to a safe house down the block from Arctor 's .
FRED: That 's where I do playback ?
HANK: Yeah . And we use also use it fo playback on five other houses . So you 'll be bumping into othe undercover people . Always wear you scramble suit .
FRED: Fine .
HANK: Make note of the scanner locations . If they need servicing , you can take care of it while you 're at Arctor 's . As long as nobody 's around .
FRED: I 'll have to edit myself out , so you wo n't see who 's fixing the scanners .
HANK: Right . Although we assume you 're Barris , or Luckman , or Freck , o Arctor or Donna Hawthorne
FRED: Donna ?
HANK: So do n't edit yourself from all tapes , or we 'll deduce who you are by process of elimination . Leave yourself in in places . Be creative . Have fun .
FRED: Okay .
HANK: This will help greatly in determining what the hell Arctor 's up to .
FRED: We do n't know he 's up to anything .
HANK: We 've got more recent information . There is no doubt any longer Arctor 's a phony , a three dollar bill . So keep on him until we have enough to arrest him and make it stick .
FRED: You think he 's high up in Death distribution ?
HANK: What we think is n't of any importance to you . You report ; we evaluate .
FRED: Well , Arctor is doomed if he 's up to anything . And I have a hunch from what you say that he is .
HANK: We should have a case on him soon . Then we can seize his house . I think you 'd like it . It 's rundown and dirty , but it 's big . Nice yard . The installation crew reported it has excellent possibilities .
FRED: For what ?
HANK: Well , the living room gives a view of the intersection , so passing vehicles could be graphed and but Burt What's-his-face , who headed the crew , felt that it 'd been allowed to deteriorate so badly that
FRED: Deteriorate in what way ?
HANK: The roof .
FRED: The roof 's perfect .
HANK: Interior and exterior paint . The condition of the floors .
FRED: Bullshit . It 's all fine .
HANK: Then you recommend we acquire it afte Arctor 's arrested and loses title ?
FRED: I have no opinion . Fred rises to leave .
HANK: You 're not splitting yet . You have to eport to room 203 .
FRED: Hank , if this is about the Lion 's Clu speech , I 've already explained
HANK: This is something different .
FRED: Yes .
FRED: Look , about the Lion 's Club
FRED: I see a Coke bottle , I guess . The two technicians exchange glances .
FRED: Okay .
FRED: It 's what ? What did you say it is ?
CHARLES FRECK: Okay okay okay . So I go to Barris , `` Hey , Barris , I bought a methedrine plant today , '' and he goes `` Methedrine is a benny , like speed , la la la . It 's made synthetically in a lab la la la . It is n't organic like pot . There 's no such thing as a methedrine plant , like there is a pot plant . '' Then I go `` I meant I inherited forty thousand dollars from an uncle and purchased a plant in this guy 's garage where he makes meth . It 's a factory . Plant in that sense ' Okay okay , I do n't have the phrasing exactly yet , but when I lay this on Barris , man , I 'm going to get him so good .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey , Jim , I bought a meth plant today .
JIM BARRIS: How big ?
CHARLES FRECK: What do you mean ?
JIM BARRIS: How big a plant ?
CHARLES FRECK: Um , well like , what do you mean ?
BOB ARCTOR: How much you pay , Freck ?
CHARLES FRECK: Uh , about ten bucks .
BOB ARCTOR: Jim could 've gotten it for you cheaper .
JIM BARRIS: They 're practically giving meth plants away .
CHARLES FRECK: This is a whole fucking garage ! A factory ! It turns out a million pills a day !
JIM BARRIS: All that for ten bucks ?
BOB ARCTOR: Where 's it located , Freck ?
CHARLES FRECK: Not around here . Hey , fuck it , you guys .
BOB ARCTOR: What about the carb ?
JIM BARRIS: Bent choke shaft . The whole ca needs to be rebuilt .
BOB ARCTOR: Why is it bent ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I phoned and they 're checking to see what a rebuilt carb will set you back . Hey , Freck .
CHARLES FRECK: Hey .
BOB ARCTOR: Freck bought a meth plant today .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Cool . How big ?
CHARLES FRECK: Fuck off .
JIM BARRIS: You could put a four barrel on instead of a two , while you 're at it .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: It would idle too high . And it would n't upshift .
JIM BARRIS: The idling jets could be replaced with smaller jets . And he could watch his pms with a tach . Usually just acking off the gas pedal causes it to upshift if the automatic linkage does n't do it .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: If he tromped down heavy on the step- down passing gear to get a lot of torque suddenly on the freeway , it 'd downshift and rev up so high it 'd blow the whole engine .
JIM BARRIS: The tach needle would jump and he 'd ack off .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: While passing a big semi ? He 'd have to blow the engine up or he 'd neve get around what he was trying to pass .
JIM BARRIS: Momentum would carry him past .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: What about uphill ?
JIM BARRIS: What does this car weigh , Bob ?
BOB ARCTOR: About a thousand pounds .
JIM BARRIS: Well , you 're right then . It would n't have much interia mass . A thousand pounds traveling eighty miles an hour
BOB ARCTOR: That 's a thousand pounds with passengers , a full tank of gas , and a carton of bricks in the trunk .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: How many passengers , Bob ?
BOB ARCTOR: Twelve .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: That 's six in the back and six
BOB ARCTOR: No . Eleven in the back and the drive alone up front . The extra weight is in the back so it does n't fishtail .
JIM BARRIS: This car fishtails ?
BOB ARCTOR: Unless you get eleven people in back .
JIM BARRIS: Be better , then , to have two three hundred pound bags of sand in the trunk . Then the passengers could be distributed more comfortably .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: What about one six hundred pound bag of gold , Jim ?
JIM BARRIS: If you bastards would n't rappity-rap on like a bunch of speed freaks , I could complete my computations and tell you how this car with its weight would handle a four barrel carb . So shut the fuck up , you assholes !
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I 'm going to read to you now , Barris . `` He to whom it is given to see Christ more real than any other reality
JIM BARRIS: What ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: `` than any other reality in the World , Christ everywhere present and everywhere growing more great , Christ the final determination and plasmatic Principle of the Universe ``
BOB ARCTOR: What is that , Luckman ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Teilhard de Chardin. `` that man indeed lives in a zone where no multiplicity can distress him and which is nevertheless the most active workshop of universal fulfillment . ''
CHARLES FRECK: Cool it , you guys .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Out of the way , Freck . I 'm going to coldcock Barris into tomorrow fo talking to his betters like that .
JIM BARRIS: I hear the phone ringing about the carb . I 'll get it . They watch him go .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I was just kidding .
CHARLES FRECK: What if he comes back with his gun and silencer ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Naw , stay , man , you 're a brother .
CHARLES FRECK: Naw , I 'm cutting out .
JIM BARRIS: It was a wrong number , man .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Hey , what 's the hammer for , Jimmy-Boy ?
BOB ARCTOR: To fix the engine . What else ?
JIM BARRIS: Thought I would bring it with me , since I was indoors and noticed it .
CHARLES FRECK: I 'm gon na split . I 'll see you guys .
BOB ARCTOR: The most dangerous kind of person is one who 's afraid of his own shadow .
CHARLES FRECK: Did Bob mean me afraid of my own shadow ? But that was turning into a super-bummer . Where 's the chicken into not wanting to be around that ? Everything 's changing , man . Used to be cool to hang out . Now its totally dark .
HEAD #1: Hey , Jerry 's gone .
CHARLES FRECK: Fuck ! I ca n't believe I forgot Jerry 's dead . What is wrong with me ?
HEAD #1: He 's not dead , man . He 's in the Numbe Three Federal Clinic .
CHARLES FRECK: Fuck , I ca n't believe I forgot Jerry 's not dead . What is wrong with me ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: You seem mellow , Bob . Having to spend a hundred bucks on a new carb would n't make me mellow .
BOB ARCTOR: I 'll cruise the streets until I come across an Olds , then unbolt the carb . Like everyone else I know .
JIM BARRIS: Especially Donna . That chick steals everything she can carry .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I 'll tell you a Donna story . One day she put a quarter in a stamp machine and it kept spitting out stamps , till she had like eighteen thousand stamps .
JIM BARRIS: At what individual price per stamp ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Fifteen cents per individual stamp .
JIM BARRIS: That 's twenty-seven hundred dollars , if my arithmetic is correct .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: And so what 's Donna gon na do with so many stamps ? She can barely write
ERNIE LUCKMAN: So she ripped off the whole stamp machine and remounted it , like , somewhere where the postal authorities would n't spot it and
JIM BARRIS: You realize our taxes were raised by her stealing those stamps ? It 's one thing to steal auto parts , but when you steal from Uncle Sam
BOB ARCTOR: I 'm going out to score some beans . Luckman , is your Falcon running ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: No . I do n't think so .
BOB ARCTOR: Barris ?
JIM BARRIS: I wonder , Bob , if you can handle my car ? By that mean there are
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Fuck , Barris . It 's an ordinary six cylinder . The parking lot jockeys park it all the time , for God 's sake .
JIM BARRIS: There are certain secret devices which have been incorporated
BOB ARCTOR: I 'll walk .
JIM BARRIS: It 's just that it has certain secret
BOB ARCTOR: Forget it . If I tried to drive you car , I 'd press the wrong button and float up over the greater L.A. area .
JIM BARRIS: I 'm glad you appreciate my position . Arctor exits .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: You 're fucked , Barris . You know that ?
FRED: Would if I could , but this is live .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Fucking McDonaldburger commercials .
FRED: Jesus fuck ! Barris !
JIM BARRIS: Operator , I need , I 'm not sure , is it called the inhalator squad or the esuscitation squad ?
OPERATOR: Is someone unable to breathe , sir ?
JIM BARRIS: It is , I believe , cardiac arrest . Either that or involuntary aspiration of a bolus within the
OPERATOR: What is the address , sir ?
JIM BARRIS: The address , the address . let 's see
FRED: Christ ! Just
JIM BARRIS: Uh , thank you . No assistance is needed after all . Good morrow . Barris hangs up .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: I must 've gagged . Did I pass out ?
JIM BARRIS: Not exactly . You did go into an altered state of consciousness for a few seconds . Probably an alpha state .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Fuck . I shit myself .
JIM BARRIS: You saw me on the phone , summoning the paramedics . I moved into action immedi
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Balls .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Did I scare you ? Heh heh .
BOB ARCTOR: I just did a freaky number , not like a fantasy trip , but So I 'm kinda
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I have your stuff .
BOB ARCTOR: My stuff ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Your Death .
BOB ARCTOR: Fucking Barris . You know how he kills you ? He does n't . He waits until a situation arises where you die , and he just sits there . In fact he sets you up to die . I do n't know how exactl
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Do you have the money ?
BOB ARCTOR: What ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I need the money right now .
BOB ARCTOR: Sure . Yeah .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I do n't like Barris , and I do n't trust him . He 's crazy . And you 're crazy when you 're around him . You 're crazy ight now .
BOB ARCTOR: I am ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Yeah .
BOB ARCTOR: Donna , I know I can count on you to tell me if I 'm getting weird or crazy or like that . Okay ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Hey , you wan na take me to a concert at Anaheim Stadium next weekend ?
BOB ARCTOR: Right on . Yeah . That sounds
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I 'm gon na bring some really oily hash and get really loaded . But you have to wear something neat , not those funky clothes you sometimes wear .
BOB ARCTOR: I 'll wear whatever you say .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I 'm taking us to my place . And you do have the money and you 'll give it to me . Then we 'll drop a few of the tabs and kick back . Maybe you could buy a fifth of Southern Comfort and we could get bombed as well .
BOB ARCTOR: Oh , wow . That sounds good .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You know what would be cool tonight , is to go to the Torrance Drive-in . They 're showing all eleven Planet of the Apes movies . From 7 30 to 8 00 tomorrow morning .
BOB ARCTOR: Can a drive-in show movies in the morning ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I have n't seen all the Ape movies in years . And the last one for longe than that , the one where they reveal
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Stay on the newspaper . I just had the ug shampooed .
BOB ARCTOR: Do you ever throw anything away ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Someday I 'm gon na get married and I 'm going to need all this stuff . When you get married , you need everything there is .
BOB ARCTOR: How much of what you 've got did you uy and how much did you steal ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Buy ? What do you mean `` buy '' ?
BOB ARCTOR: Like when you buy dope . Like a dope deal . When I mean by `` buy '' is an extension into the greater world of usiness transactions of what we have present now , with us , as dope deals .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I think I see what you 're saying .
BOB ARCTOR: Like when you rip off those Coca-Cola truck you tailgate . That 's stealing .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: No . It 's a form of barter .
BOB ARCTOR: Donna , look , you 're gon na get caught , and if you got drugs in your car when they catch you , there 's nothing I can do to protect you then .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You protect me ? What are you talking about ?
BOB ARCTOR: Nothing . I just Please take care . Donna lights the pipe .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: The Coca-Cola company is a capitalist monopoly . No one else can make it but them . That 's fucking wrong . C'mere , I 'll supercharge you . Arctor sits down at the table .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay , cool .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Yeah , I can dig it , you being in love with me .
BOB ARCTOR: Hey , Donna , man , do you like cats ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Dripping little things . Moving along about a foot above the ground .
BOB ARCTOR: No . On the ground .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Drippy . Behind furniture .
BOB ARCTOR: Little spring flowers , then ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Yes . Little spring flowers . With yellow in them . That first come up .
BOB ARCTOR: Before . Before anyone .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Yes . Before anyone stomps on them and they 're gone . Arctor 's eyes get wet .
BOB ARCTOR: Yeah . You know me exactly , Donna . You can read me . No one knows me but you . Donna draws on the pipe , but it 's out .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: No more . Her smile disappears .
BOB ARCTOR: What 's wrong ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Nothing .
BOB ARCTOR: Donna , can I put my arm around you . I want to hold you , okay ? Donna 's stoned eyes suddenly widen .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: No , you 're too ugly .
BOB ARCTOR: What ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: No ! Look , I snort a lot of coke ; I have to be super careful because I snort a lot of coke .
BOB ARCTOR: Ugly ? Fuck you , Donna .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Just leave my body alone .
BOB ARCTOR: Sure . Yeah . You better believe it . Arctor rises , disappears into the kitchen .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: I do n't like people to grope my body ! I have to watch out for that because I do so much coke . Someday I 'm gon na go over the Canadian border with fou pounds of coke in my snatch . I 'll say I 'm a Catholic and a virgin .
BOB ARCTOR: I 'm taking off .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You do n't have your car . I 'll drive you , man . But you can see why I have to protect my snatch
BOB ARCTOR: You 're too stoned to drive and you never let anyone else drive that little roller skate of yours . She jerks upright and glares wildly at him .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: That 's because no one else can fucking drive my car ! Nobody else ever gets it right , no man especially ! Driving or anything else ! Listen , you had your hands down into my Arctor is out the door .
BOB ARCTOR: Too ugly .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Sometimes I get really spaced . You wan na come back ? Or what ? You wan na go to the drive-in ? What about the Southern Comfort ? C'mon , I 'm sorry .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay . They turn and head back to the house .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: That sure is good hash though , huh ? They walk in silence .
BOB ARCTOR: You 'll have to save up for that .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: He 'll get me that . What's-his-name .
BOB ARCTOR: Who ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Mr . Right . He 'll drive an Aston- Martin and take me north in it . And that 's where the little old fashioned house will be in the snow .
BOB ARCTOR: You sure this 'll happen ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: It 's in the cards .
BOB ARCTOR: Hey , man , can I go with you ? To Oregon ? When you do take off finally ?
BOB ARCTOR: Here you go .
CONNIE: Thanks , man .
BOB ARCTOR: Two of them do . Connie fixes her dead eyes on Arctor .
CONNIE: You 're queer ?
BOB ARCTOR: I try not to be . That 's why I 've arranged this transaction with you .
CONNIE: Yes , I suppose I 'm about to find out . Connie removes her bra and her skirt .
TELEPHONE VOICE: Yeah ?
JIM BARRIS: This is Jim .
TELEPHONE VOICE: Who ?
JIM BARRIS: With the beard . Green shades . Leather pants . I met you at that happening at
TELEPHONE VOICE: Oh , right . Yeah . That guy . Jim .
JIM BARRIS: Say , have I scored . Psylocybe Mexicana . A rare hallucinogenic mushroom used in South American mystery cults thousands of years ago . You fly , become invisible , understand the speech of animals
TELEPHONE VOICE: Truly ? How much ?
JIM BARRIS: Five dollars a cap .
FRED: Mushrooms he seems to have picked locally .
BOB ARCTOR: Hi .
JIM BARRIS: How 'd you make out with little Miss Big Tits ? Barris chuckles .
FRED: Fuck off , Barris .
BOB ARCTOR: Fuck off , Barris .
JIM BARRIS: Bob , I 'm sorry if I offended you .
BOB ARCTOR: Where 's Luckman ?
JIM BARRIS: He left with your jack , so I assume he 's off to knock over pay phones .
BOB ARCTOR: My axle jack ?
JIM BARRIS: Y'know , I have a sure fire way you could get into the pants of Little Miss Big Tits . For under one dollar .
BOB ARCTOR: Either you pay up your back rent o get to work fixing my godamn cephscope !
JIM BARRIS: Yes . About that , Bob . I 've already ordered resistors
JIM BARRIS: Oh , yes , I 've been meaning to call you , but I 've had a severe bout of intestinal flu , with loss of body heat , pyloric spasms , cramps
FRED: Get me a name and address on this .
OPERATOR: Englesohn Locksmith , 1343 Harbor in Anaheim , Loverboy .
FRED: Arctor must 've burned Barris pretty ad to deserve this display of malice . Scramble Suit # 1 approaches Fred .
OLD LADY: Yes sir ? Good morning .
BOB ARCTOR: Hi , I 'm here
OLD LADY: Oh . All-rightey .
BOB ARCTOR: Yes , I am Mr. Arctor . Nobody else is .
OLD LADY: Okay , sir . That 'll be twenty dollars . Arctor hands her a twenty dollar bill .
BOB ARCTOR: I 'm sorry about this , but by mistake I wrote the check on a closed account .
OLD LADY: My brother Carl .
BOB ARCTOR: I 'd appreciate if you 'd tell you other that I was distraught when he called and I apologize for that , too .
OLD LADY: I believe he said something about that , yes . She hands the bad check back to Arctor .
BOB ARCTOR: Any extra charge ?
OLD LADY: No extra charge .
BOB ARCTOR: I was distraught because a friend of mine had just passed-on suddenly .
OLD LADY: Oh dear .
BOB ARCTOR: He choked to death alone , in his room , on a piece of meat . No one heard him .
OLD LADY: You know , Mr. Arctor , more deaths happen from that than people realize . I read that if you 're dining with a friend and he does n't talk for a long time , you should ask him if he can , eacuse he may be strangling .
BOB ARCTOR: Yes . That 's true . Thanks . And thanks about the check .
OLD LADY: Well , I 'm sorry about your friend .
BOB ARCTOR: Yes . He was the best friend I had .
OLD LADY: How dreadful . I 'll tell Carl . And thank you for coming all the way down .
BOB ARCTOR: Thank you . And thank Mr. Englesohn for me . Thank you both so much .
BOB ARCTOR: What if I , Bob Arctor , wrote this check myself and just do n't remember ?
BOB ARCTOR: Nobody home , I guess .
CHARLES FRECK: It is no problem how to kill yourself in the circles in which I hang . When life becomes more and more depressing as you watch those you know falling apart from drug use , just take a large quantity of reds .
BOB ARCTOR: Any given man sees only a tiny portion of Weh ! steck ' ich in dem Kerker noch ? Verfluchtes the total truth , and very often , in fact almost perpetually dumpfes Mauerloch
FRED: What the fuck is he talking about ?
BOB ARCTOR: Wo selbst das liebe Himmelschlicht he deliberately deceives trub durch gemalte Scheiben bricht !
FRED: He 's playing head games with us . He 's shucking us . The fucker !
BOB ARCTOR: I 'll be dipped .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Hi , what 's happening , Bob ?
BOB ARCTOR: I drove by the Maylar Microdot Corporation building .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: You 're shitting me .
BOB ARCTOR: One of the employees had evidently tracked the inventory out on the heel of his shoe . So they were all in the parking lot with many little magnifying glasses .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Any reward ?
BOB ARCTOR: They had a reward , but they lost that , too . It was a little tiny penny .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: How large is the Maylar Microdot Corporation building ?
FRED: Pathetic , soulless nitwits .
BOB ARCTOR: About an inch high .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Well , then how can you tell when you drive past it , if its only an inch ?
BOB ARCTOR: They have a really big sign .
FRED: Jesus .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: What 's the sign look like ?
BOB ARCTOR: Oh , just tell me .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: You smuggle it with a shipment of dope . Like heroin . The microdots are so small no one would notice .
BOB ARCTOR: That 's a decent idea .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Barris had this other idea fo smuggling dope . You know how the custom guys , they ask you to declare what you have ?
BOB ARCTOR: Right .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Well , you take a huge block of hash and you carve it in the shape of a man . Then you hollow out a little section and put a wind-up motor in . And a cassette tape . And just before it goes through customs , you wind it up and it walks up to the man , who says , `` Do you have anything to declare ? '' and it says , `` No , I do n't , '' and keeps on walking .
BOB ARCTOR: You put a solar battery in it , it could keep walking for years . Forever .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: What 's the use of that ?
BOB ARCTOR: Imagine an Eskimo village . And this six foot block of hash worth What would it be worth ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: A billion dollars ?
BOB ARCTOR: More . Two billion . So these Eskimos are chewing hides when this six foot lock of hash comes walking through the snow saying , `` No , I do n't '' ove and over again .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: They 'd wonder what it meant by that .
BOB ARCTOR: Legends would spring up .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Can you imagine telling you grandkids , `` I saw with my own eyes a six foot block of hash appear and walk past , worth two billion dollars , saying , `` No , I do n't . '' His grandchildren would have him committed .
BOB ARCTOR: But , see , legends build . So in a few centuries it would be , `` In my forefathers ' time , a ninety foot high lock of extremely good quality
BOB ARCTOR: Afghanistan hash worth eight trillion dollars came at us dripping fire and screaming , `` Die , Eskimo dogs ! '' And we fought and fought with it and finally killed it with our spears .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: The kids would n't believe that either .
BOB ARCTOR: Kids never believe anything anymore .
FRED: Yeah ?
TELEPHONE VOICE: Fred , we 've processed your tests . We need you to come back for the full attery . Tomorrow at three . Do you emember the room number ?
FRED: Um okay .
TELEPHONE VOICE: It 's 203 . Are you all right , Fred ? Any confusion ? Difficulty identifying persons or objects ? Does anything you see appear inverted or reversed ? Any space-time or language disorientation ?
FRED: Um , what ? I just what exactly have you processed that is , is this in regard to the Lion 's Club speech ?
TELEPHONE VOICE: We 'll take all that up tomorrow , Fred .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: this guy appeared on tv , claiming to be a world-famous imposter . He said he 'd posed at one time or anothe as a great surgeon , a theoretical submolecular high-velocity particle esearch physicist , a Finnish novelist , a deposed president of Argentina
BOB ARCTOR: He got away with it ? Never got caught ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: See , the guy never really posed as any of it . He only posed as a world- famous imposter . Turns out he just pushed a broom at Disneyland , until he ead about this actual world-famous imposter , and he thought , I can pose as all those things , then he thought , hell , I 'll just pose as an imposter . Save a lot of time , a lot easier . Made almost as much money as the real imposter with books and movie rights .
JIM BARRIS: We see imposters in our lives , now and then . But not posing as physicists .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Narks , you mean . Yeah , I wonder what a nark looks like ?
BOB ARCTOR: It 's like asking what an imposte looks like . I asked a hash deale who 'd been busted once what the nark who busted him looked like
JIM BARRIS: Looked just like us .
BOB ARCTOR: More so . The dealer dude told me the nark had longer hair than we do . I guess the moral is , stay away from guys who look like us .
ERNIE LUCKMAN: Narks give me the creeps .
BOB ARCTOR: How could a guy do that is what I want to know , pose as a nark ?
ERNIE LUCKMAN: POSE AS A NARK ? POSE AS A NARK ?
BOB ARCTOR: My brains are scrambled today . I etter go crash .
CHARLES FRECK: I 've been burned . These are not reds , ut rather some freaky psychedelic , the likes of which I have never seen .
CREATURE: We are no longer in the mundane universe . Your sins will be read to you ceaselessly throughout eternity .
CHARLES FRECK: Know your fucking dealer , man .
CREATURE: November 14 , 1962 , 3 08 23 pm you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister Evelyn on the left side of the head when your mothe was not looking . November 14 , 1962 , 3 08 27 pm you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister on the left arm when you mother was not looking . November 14 , 1962 , 3 08 32 pm you did
FRED: Okay .
FRED: Thank you . Thank you all very much .
HANK: Fred , is that you ?
FRED: Yes .
HANK: Fred , this is the informant who phoned in about Bob Arctor .
FRED: Sure I do . You 're James Barris , are n't you ? Barris continues to grin , says nothing .
HANK: His i.d . shows him to be , yes .
FRED: What does he want ?
JIM BARRIS: I have evidence that Mr. Arctor is part of a large , secret covert organization , well-funded , with arsenals of weapons at their disposal , probably dedicated to the overthrow
HANK: That part is speculation . We want to know what your firsthand evidence is .
FRED: Have you ever been in a mental hospital , Mr. Barris ?
JIM BARRIS: No , I have not , sir , ever been in a
FRED: Will you sign a sworn notarized statement regarding your evidence ?
HANK: He already has , Fred .
JIM BARRIS: My evidence , gentlemen , which I mostly do n't have with me today , consits of tape recordings I have made of Robert Arctor 's phone conversations .
FRED: What is this covert organization ?
JIM BARRIS: I believe it to be political in nature , and against this country .
FRED: And what is Arctor 's relationship to Substance D ?
JIM BARRIS: When you examine my evidence , you will undoubtedly conclude that Substance D is produced by a foreign nation determined to overthrow the U.S. , and
HANK: Can you tells us the name of anyone else inside this organization ?
JIM BARRIS: A Miss Donna Hawthorne . On various pretexts he goes over to her place and colludes with her regularly .
FRED: Colludes ? What do you mean ?
JIM BARRIS: I 've followed him in my car , sir .
FRED: She 's his girl !
HANK: You think there 's nothing to this ?
FRED: Let 's look at his evidence .
HANK: Bring us your evidence . Maybe we should send an officer with him to retrieve it .
JIM BARRIS: There 's one more thing . Mr. Arctor is addicted to Substance D. His mind is deranged now . He 's become dangerous .
FRED: Dangerous .
JIM BARRIS: He 's already having episodes such as occur with brain damage from Substance D. Deterioration in the corpus callosum .
HANK: This kind of unsupported speculation is worthless . We 'll send an office with you to collect your evidence .
JIM BARRIS: But , sirs
HANK: We 'll arrange for an officer out of uniform , so it wo n't be conspicuous .
JIM BARRIS: I might be murdered . Mr. Arctor is , as I say
HANK: We appreciate your extreme risk , Mr. Barris . If your information is of significant value in obtaining a conviction , then naturally
JIM BARRIS: That 's not why I 'm doing this . The man is sick . Brain damaged from Substance D. The reason I am here
HANK: We do n't care why you 're here . We only care if your evidence amounts to anything . The rest is your problem .
JIM BARRIS: Thank you , sirs . Thank you very much . Barris grins and nods and sweats .
FRED: Yes .
FRED: Uh-huh .
FRED: Half a gas gauge ? What would that be like ?
HANK: Fred ?
FRED: Yeah . Sorry I 'm late . I just
HANK: Would you identify the voices for us ?
JIM BARRIS: The female 's voice is a Miss Donna Hawthorne . The male is Bob Arctor . Hank nods , switches back on the tape .
JIM BARRIS: I can identify the biker gang also .
HANK: You have more material of this sort ?
JIM BARRIS: Much more . Much much more . Much much much much much
HANK: Okay , great . What I 'm going to do , Mr. Barris , is impound this material here for further study . You will be held in custody , charged with giving false information . This is , of course , only a pretext for your own safety , but the formal charge will be lodged anyhow . Is that satisfactory ?
FRED: Is that my medical report , Hank ? Hank nods , but offers nothing else .
HANK: Oh , it 's a fake , Fred , for Christ sake .
FRED: You might be right . But I do n't agree . Um , so what does my medical eport
HANK: It says you 're completely cuckoo .
FRED: Completely ?
HANK: Maybe two brain cells still light up .
FRED: Out of how many , would you say ?
HANK: I do n't know . I understand brains have a lot of cells . Fred looks down .
FRED: They tell me it may never be over .
HANK: Then never come back . Can you drive ?
FRED: My
HANK: We can get somebody to drive you .
FRED: Sure . Thanks . Tell me , Hank , what do you think of me now , now that I 've burned out ?
HANK: I think you 're a very good person .
FRED: Thank you very much .
HANK: You want a cigarette ?
FRED: No . I 'm quitting them , too . I 'm quitting everything .
HANK: Good for you . It 's like I tell my children
FRED: I have kids , too . Two little girls .
HANK: I do n't believe you do . You 're not supposed to .
FRED: Maybe not .
HANK: I do n't think you 're going to make it in the mountains , even if we get someone to drive you . Where else would you like to go ?
FRED: I do n't know . I do n't know .
HANK: What about over to Donna Hawthorne 's ? I know you 're close .
FRED: How do you know that ?
HANK: By a process of elimination we were able to determine you 're Bob Arctor .
FRED: Arctor ? I 'm Bob Arctor ? But he 's ugly !
HANK: Nevermind . It 's not important . Get me a Donna Hawthorne at Where does she work ?
FRED: Uh , Thompson Jewelers . I 'm Arctor ?
HANK: at Thompson Jewelers . We should probably get you to a hospital . Barris poisoned you . It was really Barris , we were interested in . That 's why we set up the scanners . He 's into something heavy and sick , and it has to do with guns .
FRED: So , wait , you used me to get to Barris ?
HANK: We had to get to him , Bob . He 's bad news . We could n't tell you . We were afraid you 'd spill the beans .
FRED: You fuckers . You fuckers .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Before we go to New-Path , Bob , I thought maybe we 'd drive into the hills , y'know , look at the city lights .
BOB ARCTOR: Do you have any hash ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: C'mon , let 's get off the road a little it . In case of cops .
BOB ARCTOR: Just like the rest of us .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Spars . Showers of colored sparks . In the air . Going up the wall . Wherever he looked . The whole world
BOB ARCTOR: What was on the other side ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: He said it was always nighttime . Moonlight and water . Nothing eve changed . Water like blank ink and a each . He was sure it was ancient Greece , that the door was a weak link in time . Later when he could n't see it anymore , he became so frustrated with the noise and lights and motion in this world . He 'd tell everyone he met that he lost everything .
BOB ARCTOR: I 've lost everything .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: There was a woman on the island . More like a statue . Of the Cyrenaican Aphrodite . In the moonlight . Pale and cold .
BOB ARCTOR: He should 've gone through while he had the chance . You only get one chance .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: He did n't have the chance , Bob . It was a promise . Something to come . Something better a long time in the future . They show us trailers now . So we 'll hold out .
BOB ARCTOR: That 's what you 're trying to do . With me now . Show me a trailer . So I 'll hold out . Donna is quiet , sniffs in some snot .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: You 're a good man . You 've been dealt a bad blow . But life is n't over fo you . I care for you a lot . I wish
COP: Would you stand , you first , miss , and show me your identification , please ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Keep your voice down .
COP: I 'm sorry .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Just fucking take off .
BOB ARCTOR: I ca n't make love . My thing 's disappeared . I 'm sorry . I 'm so sorry .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: C'mon , they 're expecting us . I have to sign you in .
BOB ARCTOR: But what 'll I do if my thing 's disappeared ? Will they still take me ?
DONNA HAWTHORNE: They 'll take you .
MOTORIST: You want a ride , miss ?
GEORGE: All right , Bruce , what you 'll be doing here first is the bathrooms .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay .
GEORGE: You feel you know how to clean a athroom ? Start , and I 'll give you some pointers .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay .
MIKE: Thanks , man .
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: You pimp . You fuck . You dong . You shit . You turd . You snot . You asshole . You vomit . You wart .
MIKE: Bruce ? Arctor looks at Mike 's compassionate face .
BOB ARCTOR: I am an eye . I am dead . I can only look at what is front of me .
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: You turd prick . You weakling . You puke . You suck-off . You snatch .
MIKE: You like kids , Bruce ?
BOB ARCTOR: Yes .
MIKE: You can eat with them if you like . Arctor nods and sits at the end of the table .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay .
LITTLE GIRL: What 's your name ? Arctor does n't respond .
BOB ARCTOR: Wo n't it wash off ?
LITTLE GIRL: Oh , I see . Well , you could write on the ceiling above your bed . Then when you want to know your name better , you can
BOB ARCTOR: Thelma .
LITTLE GIRL: No , that 's my name . And that 's a girl 's name anyway . If I see you again , I 'll give you a name . I 'll make one up for you . 'kay ?
BOB ARCTOR: Do n't you live here ?
LITTLE GIRL: Yes , but my mommy may be leaving . She 's thinking about taking us , me and my brother , and leaving . 'kay , Bye !
BOB ARCTOR: Bruce .
MIKE: Hey , Bruce ! Arctor looks up .
BOB ARCTOR: Are you leaving here ?
MIKE: No , man , I can never leave here . Too many temptations out there for the likes of us . No , I 'm just going into town to pick up a donation of semi- otten vegetables .
BOB ARCTOR: Semi-rotten vegetables .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: So are they paranoid about him ?
MIKE: No . He just sits there all day . There 's really nothing to suspect . They ca n't get anything out of him during the game sessions . Donna looks off for a moment , sadly .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Well , then , will he be able to act , when the time comes ? Is anything left ?
MIKE: You never really know . A memory . A few charred brain cells flicker on . People like him are clacking insects . All reflex . We can only hope he 's got the right reflex .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: It was very well drilled into him . Such a price to pay . The government asks an awful lot .
MIKE: Life asks an awful lot .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: In this case , the fucking government . Bob did n't volunteer . He was sacrificed . He was my friend , y'know . I do n't want to be on this assignment much longer . I just want it over . Shit . Sometimes I think we 're colde than they are .
MIKE: I see a warm person when I look at you , Donna .
DONNA HAWTHORNE: Oh , I 'm warm on the outside . Warm face , warm eyes , warm fucking fake smile . But inside I 'm cold all the time . I am full of lies . I am awful .
OLD WOMAN: Can you do this ?
BOB ARCTOR: I ca n't do that .
OLD WOMAN: I can .
BOB ARCTOR: Donna ? !
MIKE: I think I 'm going to try to get you a job on one of our farms , Bruce . When you 're ready .
BOB ARCTOR: Can I work with animals . I like animals . Can I work with them ?
MIKE: No , I want to try you with crops . I think that 'd be good for you .
BOB ARCTOR: I want to work with something living .
MIKE: The ground is living . Do you have any agricultural background ?
BOB ARCTOR: I used to work in an office .
MIKE: Well , you 'll be outside from now on , sowing , tilling , killing insects . We do a lot of that with pesticides . But we 're very careful , because those sprays can poison the crop as well as the person using them . Eat his head . The way yours has been eaten , Bruce .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay .
FARM MANAGER: Your name is Bruce .
BOB ARCTOR: My name is Bruce .
FARM MANAGER: Mike Westaway recommended we give you a try on the farm . You 're going to work here for a while .
BOB ARCTOR: Okay .
FARM MANAGER: I think you 'll like it better here .
BOB ARCTOR: I think I 'll like it better here .
FARM MANAGER: You like mountains ?
BOB ARCTOR: I like mountains .
FARM MANAGER: Beautiful mountains all around . The manager points , but Arctor does not look .
BOB ARCTOR: I like air .
FARM MANAGER: Yeah , Bruce , we all like air . We eally all do . C'mon , I 'll show you your bunk and get you a hat to protect your head from the sun . The manager leads Bruce to the bunkhouses .
BOB ARCTOR: Will I be seeing my friends ?
FARM MANAGER: You mean back at the rehab ?
BOB ARCTOR: Mike and Thelma and Donna and Jerry Fabin and Luckman and Barris and
FARM MANAGER: The farms are closed facilities , so they ca n't come visit . Besides you 're not supposed to make any one-to-one elationships at New-Path . Did n't they teach you that ?
BOB ARCTOR: They had us memorize that as part of the New-Path creed .
FARM MANAGER: But we usually send you back to you esidence-of-origin for holidays . So you 'll be visiting at Thanksgiving if you do good work .
BOB ARCTOR: Thanksgiving .
FARM MANAGER: All right then . What else ? Bathroom there . And you can turn on and off the light with this cord .
BOB ARCTOR: Mountains , Bruce , mountains .
FARM MANAGER: Echolalalia , Bruce , echolalalia .
BOB ARCTOR: Echolalalia , Bruce , echolalalia .
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: You 're seeing the flower of the future , Bruce . But not for you .
BOB ARCTOR: Why not for me ?
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: You 've had too much of a good thing . So get up and stop worshipping . This is n't your god anymore .
BOB ARCTOR: Gone . The flowers of spring are gone .
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: No . You simply ca n't see them . That 's a philosophical problem you would n't comprehend . Epistemology the theory of knowledge .
BOB ARCTOR: I saw .
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: Back to work , Bruce .
BOB ARCTOR: A present for my friends . My friends who I 'll see soon . At Thanksgiving .
CONTINUED: < /pre
MAN: What a marvel what a marvel
VOICE: Yes
WIFE: How much ?
WIFE: Yes , very remarkable .
WIFE: God has cursed us .
MAN: What ?
MAN: For some soup , to warm himself . The wind moans . He helped me , Dora !
MAN: REB GROSHKOVER ! You are welcome here !
REB GROSHKOVER: You are too kind , Velvel ! Too kind !
MAN: Yes ! A ray of sun , a ray of sun ! Sit !
WIFE: My husband said he offered you soup .
WIFE: I knew it .
REB GROSHKOVER: I see ! You think I 'm fat enough already !
WIFE: No . A dybbuk does n't eat .
REB GROSHKOVER: What a wife you have !
REB GROSHKOVER: `` My corpse ! '' Honestly ! What a wife you have !
WIFE: Oh yes ? Look , husband
MAN: Woman , what have you done ?
REB GROSHKOVER: Why would she do such a thing ?
REB GROSHKOVER: On the contrary ! I do n't feel at all well .
MAN: Dora ! Woe , woe ! How can such a thing be !
WIFE: Nonsense , Velvel She walks to the door
BLACK: A drumbeat thumps in the black .
DOCTOR: Uh-huh .
DANNY: Fagle ! .. .
DOCTOR: Mm-hmm .
DANNY: Fagle !
TEACHER: Hamrah oomoh-
TEACHER: Ahnoo ahnoo mah ? Mah ? Talmidim ? D'vorah ?
D'VORAH: Ahnee to yodayah .
TEACHER: Mee yodayah ?
TEACHER: Nefsheh shelach hamilamid-eh ? !
STUDENTS: Shechet ! Shechet bivakasha ! The nodding student 's head droops ever lower . Other students join in the chant
DOCTOR: Well , I-sorry . He holds the pack toward LARRY .
LARRY: No thanks .
LARRY: Good . Everyone 's good . You know . The DOCTOR takes a long suck .
LARRY: Two weeks .
PRINCIPAL: Hmm eh nu ?
DANNY: You put the- The old man holds up one hand .
PRINCIPAL: In ivrit .
DANNY: Um
PRINCIPAL: In ivrit !
SECRETARY: Messages , Professor Gopnik . He takes the three phone messages .
LARRY: Thank you , Natalie . Oh-CLIVE . Come in .
LARRY: So , uh , what can I do for you ? The messages WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Clu
LARRY: Uh-huh , how so ?
SURPRISED: You understand the dead cat ?
CLIVE: Very difficult very difficult
CLIVE: Passing grade .
LARRY: No no , I-
CLIVE: Secret test . LARRY wraps a hand wearily over his eyes .
LARRY: . No , I 'm afraid-
CLIVE: Hush-hush .
CLIVE: Very troubling . He rises . . very troubling
LARRY: Hello , Sy , LARRY Gopnik .
MOURNFUL: LARRY . How are you , my friend . LARRY picks idly at the envelope .
LARRY: Good , how 've you been , Sy ?
SY: Oh fine . Shall we talk LARRY . LARRY reacts to the money .
LARRY: What ? ! Oh ! Sorry ! I , uh-call back ! He slams down the phone .
BATHROOM DOOR: A hand enters to knock . Man 's Voice Out in a minute !
SARAH: I got ta wash my hair ! I 'm going out tonight !
VOICE: Out in a minute !
SARAH: Jesus Christ ! She stomps down the hall .
SARAH: W is Uncle Arthur always in the bathroom ?
BATHROOM DOOR: A hand enters to knock . Uncle Arthur 's Voice Out in a minute !
SARAH: Are you still in there ? ! Uncle Arthu I , uh.. . Just a minute !
LARRY: Arthur ! A muffled voice
ARTHUR: Yeah !
LARRY: Dinner !
ARTHUR: Okay ! Out in a minute !
LARRY: We should wait .
SARAH: Are you kidding ! They start eating .
LARRY: Mr. Brandt keeps mowing part of our lawn .
JUDY: Does that matter ?
LARRY: What ?
JUDY: Is it important ? LARRY shrugs .
LARRY: It 's just odd .
JUDY: Any news on your tenure ?
LARRY: I think they 'll give me tenure .
JUDY: You think .
JUDY: No , I do n't know . Which is why I ask .
JUDY: Ask your father .
BACK YARD: Twilight .
MITCH: Ow .
JUDY: Honey .
ABSENT: Honey .
JUDY: Did you talk to Sy ? Still absent , without looking up
JUDY: You did n't talk to him .
LARRY: No , I-
LARRY: Mm .
JUDY: Well , Sy and I have become very close .
LARRY: . Sy Ableman !
JUDY: This is not about Sy .
LARRY: You mentioned Sy !
JUDY: Do n't twist my words . We-
LARRY: Yes ! Yes ! We have n't done anything ! And I-I 'm probably about to get tenure !
JUDY: We 've known the Ablemans for fifteen years .
LARRY: Sy Ableman !
ARTHUR: Out in a minute !
LARRY: Where do I sleep ? JUDY narrows her eyes .
JUDY: What ?
LARRY: Arthur 's on the couch !
JUDY: Look . Sy feels that we should-
LARRY: Esther is barely cold !
LARRY: . A what ?
LARRY: A what ? What are you talking about ? She turns to go , shaking her head , peeved
JUDY: You always act so surprised . As she leaves I have begged you to see the Rabbi .
SECRETARY: Messages , Professor Gopnik . He takes the two phone messages .
HIS OFFICE: LARRY looks at the messages WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Clu
LARRY: Yes-thanks for coming , CLIVE . CLIVE Park enters the office .
CLIVE: I did n't leave it .
CLIVE: Yes , sir . That is there .
LARRY: This is not nothing , this is something .
CLIVE: Yes sir . That is something . A beat . . What is it .
CLIVE: Of course , sir .
CLIVE: Yes . Often .
LARRY: Always ! Actions always have consequences ! He pounds the desk for emphasis . In this office , actions have consequences !
CLIVE: Yes sir .
LARRY: Not just physics . Morally .
CLIVE: Yes .
LARRY: And we both know about your actions .
CLIVE: No sir . I know about my actions .
CLIVE: Meer sir my sir . LARRY cocks his head .
LARRY: . Meer sir my sir ?
CLIVE: Mere surmise . Sir . He gravely shakes his head . . Very uncertain .
DANNY: Studying torah ! Asshole !
SARAH: You little brat ! I 'm telling Dad !
DANNY: Dad ?
DANNY: Dad , you got ta fix the aerial . Judith emerges from the kitchen .
JUDITH: Hello LARRY , have you thought about a lawyer ?
LARRY: Honey , please ! DANNY emerges from the hall .
LARRY: Can we discuss it later ?
DANNY: I ca n't get F Troop .
DANNY: Stop it !
LARRY: SARAH ! What 's going on !
DANNY: She keeps doing that !
LARRY: Arthur ?
LARRY: Sy .
SY: Good to see you , LARRY .
TIGHTLY: I 'll get Judith .
LARRY: Shall we go in the
LARRY: Uh-huh .
LARRY: Did she .
SY: Absolutely . The respect she has for you .
LARRY: Yes ?
LARRY: Well , I guess
LARRY: You know , Sy-
LARRY: Thanks , Sy , but I 'm not-
MITCH: Ow .
ARTHUR: Will you read this ? Tell me what you think ? LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling .
LARRY: Okay .
ARTHUR: Boy . You should 've worn a hat .
GAR: Let 's see some hustle , Mitch .
LARRY: Hi Arlen . Arlen Finkle
DANNY: I got ta get my radio back . Ronnie Nudell
GAR: Go scrub up , Mitch .
LARRY: Uh , good afternoon .
GAR: Afternoon .
LAMELY: . Been hunting ?
GAR: Yep .
LARRY: Is that a , uh
GAR: Gon na be a den .
LARRY: Uh-huh , that 's great . Uh , Mr. Brandt-
GAR: I said scrub up , Mitch ! The child quickly goes . LARRY frowns .
LARRY: Is n't this a school day ?
LARRY: Oh ! He nods . . That's.. . nice .
GAR: Property line 's the poplar .
LARRY: . the . ?
GAR: Poplar !
GAR: Measure .
LARRY: I do n't have to measure , you can tell it 's
GAR: Line 's the poplar . He indicates . . It 's all angles . Gar Brandt turns and goes .
LARRY: What 's going on ?
DANNY: Nothing .
PROJECTING: Yeah ? Judith Did you go to Sieglestein Schlutz ? No , I-not yet .
SARAH: I 'm going to the hole .
LARRY: At five o'clock ?
VOICES: Hi , Mr. Gopnik .
LARRY: You ca n't wash it here ?
SARAH: Uncle Arthur 's in the bathroom .
VOICE: Out in a minute ! Judith enters .
JUDITH: Are you ready ?
LARRY: Huh ?
JUDITH: We 're meeting Sy at Embers .
LARRY: I am ?
JUDITH: Both of us . I told you .
SY: LARRY . How are you .
LARRY: Sy .
SY: Hello Judith .
JUDITH: Hello Sy .
JUDITH: I 've beamed you to see the lawyer .
LARRY: I told you , I 'm going Monday .
JUDITH: Hmph .
LARRY: . Living arrangements .
LARRY: The kids aren't-
JUDITH: I 'm saying `` we . '' I 'm not pointing fingers .
SY: No one is playing the `` blame game , '' LARRY .
LARRY: I did n't say anyone was !
LARRY: I was n't ! I . -
SY: A child 's bar mitzvah , LARRY !
LARRY: . Move out ? !
SY: It makes eminent sense .
JUDITH: Things ca n't continue as they-
LARRY: Move out ! Where would I go ? !
JUDITH: This would allow you to visit the kids .
SY: LARRY , you 're jesting !
DANNY: Stop it !
SARAH: Creep fucker !
DANNY: Stop it ! I 'm getting it ! I 'm gon na get it !
SARAH: Brat ! LARRY enters .
LARRY: What 's going on ?
LEAVING: Nothing . She closes the door behind her .
LARRY: What was that ?
DANNY: Nothing .
DANNY: What ?
DANNY: Sure Dad .
SARAH: Dad . Chinese guy .
MAN: Culcha clash .
BL: Mr. Park Yes . And passing grade .
LARRY: Passing grade . Mr. Park Yes .
LARRY: Hello He brightens .
VOICE: Gim me that fucker .
MIMI: Such a sweet man though .
MIMI: Does he go out socially at all ?
MIMI: How is Judith ?
LARRY: Fine . She 's fine . I 'm the odd man out . Mimi smiles .
LARRY: I 'll say .
LARRY: I guess .
MIMI: Have you talked to Rabbi Nachtner ? Silence .
ARTHUR: Boy ! The air out here is magnificent !
MIMI: Why not see him ?
LARRY: What 's the rabbi gon na tell me ?
MIMI: If I knew I 'd be the rabbi . He looks at her glumly . She laughs .
MEL: Woods . Exploring .
LARRY: Oh-Rabbi Scott .
DANNY: We eating already ?
SARAH: I 'm going to the hole .
DANNY: Ow ! Cut it out !
JUDITH: What 's going on ? The siblings slurp soup , neither answering . After a couple slurps . Is n't Dad eating ?
DANNY: Oh yeah . More eating .
LARRY: Don .
LARRY: Oh , well
DON: . Really ?
DEFLATING: I do n't know . Maybe not .
DON: Sy Ableman !
LARRY: Yes , but they-
DON: Esther is barely cold !
LARRY: She passed three years ago .
DON: Oh .
DON: Oh .
LARRY: So that they can remarry in the faith-
LARRY: Oh , they 're very He gropes . . resilient .
SECRETARY: A call for Mr. Gopnik . DANNY . At home .
DON: You can take it here .
SECRETARY: Oh-eight-oh-nine .
VOICE: Dad ?
LARRY: Are you all right ? Are you all-is everything-
VOICE: F Troop is fuzzy .
LARRY: . What ?
VOICE: F Troop is still fuzzy . LARRY stares .
DON: Everything okay ?
CAR: LARRY is driving , hollow-eyed , to work .
SECRETARY: Oh-Professor Gopnik . It 's Dick Dutton again .
BLANK: Dick Dutton .
LARRY'S OFFICE: He sits in and picks up the phone .
LARRY: Hello ?
LARRY: No , I live at the Jolly Roger .
VOICE: Excuse me ?
LARRY: No , I-well , yes , okay .
VOICE: Yes you are Lawrence Gopnik ?
LARRY: Okay .
VOICE: Okay means
LARRY: Okay , yes , Lawrence Gopnik , yes .
LARRY: That 's right ! I have n't done anything !
LARRY: But I-
VOICE: The last one was Santana Abraxis . You-
LARRY: I did n't ask for Santana Abraxis !
VOICE: I 'm sorry sir .
LARRY: Well-thank you . But I-
VOICE: Are you okay ?
LARRY: Yes . Yes , no one was hurt .
SECRETARY: Sir .
DANNY: Dad !
LARRY: Did you join the Columbia Record Club ? !
DANNY: Um
DANNY: Okay Dad , but you got ta come home .
LARRY: Is it F Troop ?
DANNY: Huh ? No no . Mom 's real upset .
LARRY: Yes ? She enters .
LARRY: Does what mean-what happened ?
SARAH: Sy Ableman died in a car crash . DANNY 's Voice
LARRY: What ? ! DANNY enters .
LARRY: What ? !
DANNY: It 's still , you know Loud wailing .
BLACK: After a beat in black , a white title The Second Rabbi The title fades .
LARRY: Why even tell me the story ? Rabbi Nachtne
AMUSED: First I should tell you , then I should n't .
LARRY: What happened to Sussman ?
LARRY: Dissatisfied .
VOICE: Sy Ableman was a serious man !
COP 1: Arthur Gopnik ?
LARRY: I 'm Laurence Gopnik . Cop I Do you go by the name Arthur Gopnik ?
COP 1: Is that Arthur Gopnik ? Arthur ducks away . From inside the living room DANNY Dad ? What 's going on ?
COP 1: You 're what .
LARRY: A religious observance . We 're bereaved .
COP 2: Who died ?
LARRY: My wife 's um it 's a long story .
COP 2: Sorry , sir .
DANNY: Dad , we get Channel 4 now but not Channel 7 .
ARTHUR: It 's a victimless crime .
LARRY: That does n't make it right ! And you-
LARRY: You knew about it ? !
DANNY: Well , um
LARRY: What did you do with the money you won ? Silence . Arthur sneaks a look at DANNY . LARRY looks back and forth between them . . What 's going on ? Arthur shrugs .
SARAH: Unfair !
LARRY: What have you been-
LARRY: I know about the records .
LARRY: Hey ! What 's going on !
DANNY: At least I 'm not saving up for a nose job !
LARRY: What ? !
SARAH: Brat !
DANNY: Ali !
SARAH: What a brat .
LARRY: What was this card game , Arthur ?
ARTHUR: Some goys run a private game .
LARRY: DANNY , what 's going on ! He rises .
LARRY: DANNY ! We 're sitting Shiva !
MUFFLED: Uh-huh .
DON: Mm .
LARRY: She , uh
LARRY: Can I ?
DON: Oh , absolutely !
LARRY: That 's not , um , dishonest ?
DON: Oh , absolutely ! You , uh-
DON: . Have you seen the Rabbi ?
LARRY: Talked to Nachtner .
DON: You should talk to Minda .
LARRY: Getting old .
DON: Very old .
LARRY: No , me .
SECRETARY: Dick Dutton . Columbia Record Club .
LARRY: Call back .
HIS OFFICE: LARRY sits in heavily behind his desk . A beat .
LARRY?: He looks up , startled . Arlen Finkle stands in the doorway .
LARRY: I 'm fine . Arlen Finkle I 'm sorry . I know you 've hit a rough patch .
MEZUZA: On a doorpost .
WOMAN: Mr. Gopnik .
LARRY: Hey !
DANNY: Sort of . He sleeps on the couch .
LARRY: This is crazy !
COP: Does this man live here ?
COP: You know this man ?
DANNY: Dad , why is Uncle Arthur in handcuffs ?
ARTHUR: Hello , Mrs. Samsky .
LARRY: -a miscarriage-
COP: Does this man live here ?
DANNY: He sleeps on the couch .
LARRY: Look ! What did he do !
ARTHUR: Nothing ! I did n't do anything !
DANNY: It folds out . Dad sleeps on a cot .
LARRY: You ca n't just-
LARRY: The North Dakota !
ARTHUR: But I did n't do anything !
DANNY: Dad , what 's the North Dakota ?
COP: Solicitation . Sodomy . Very serious .
LARRY: . The North Dakota !
DANNY: What 's Sodomy , Dad ?
DON: What does Arthur say ?
LARRY: He says he did n't do anything .
DON: Uh-huh .
LARRY: He says . . . he just went in for a drink .
DON: Uh-huh . Long beat . . Does Arthur drink ?
LARRY: No .
DON: Uls-huh .
LARRY: . He says he was confused .
LARRY: Okay . Who's-
DON: Ron Meshbesher .
LARRY: Is he good ?
DON: Ron is very good . LARRY 's gaze wanders . He becomes wistful .
DON: Mm . A beat . . I would call Ron Meshbesher .
LARRY: Is he expensive ?
DON: Ron is not cheap .
LARRY: This week .
DON: This shabbas ! Great ! He nods .
LARRY: Oh my God , Mrs. Samsky
SECRETARY: The rabbi is busy .
LARRY: He did n't look busy ! As she starts shuffling papers
SECRETARY: He 's thinking .
NIGHT: Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut .
LARRY: Arthur ? Arthur ?
LARRY: Arthur !
HISSING: Arthur !
ARTHUR: It 's all shit , LARRY ! It 's all shit !
LARRY: Arthur . Do n't use that word .
ARTHUR: It 's all fucking shit !
LARRY: Arthur ! Come on !
LARRY: Arthur . Please .
LARRY: Is this it ? Both men peer out .
ARTHUR: I think so yeah there He indicates the road ahead .
BOUNDARY WATERS: Beautiful , wooded , remote .
LARRY: Okay.. .
ARTHUR: Oh my God . Where did you get this ?
LARRY: Does n't matter . When you-
ARTHUR: This is a lot of money !
LARRY: It should get you started .
ARTHUR: Are you sure this is okay ?
LARRY: It 's fine . It 's fine LARRY waves .
ARTHUR: LARRY . I 'm sorry . What I said last night .
LARRY: I know . It 's okay .
VOICE: Good shot ! LARRY looks wildly around . He sees
LARRY: Gasping awake in the motel room . He looks around . It is dawn .
ARTHUR: Yes . I 'm sorry . LARRY blinks sleep away . After a beat
LARRY: It 's shabbas . Another beat . Arthur heaves a deep sigh .
ARTHUR: I 'll go drain my cyst .
VOICE: Ya'amod hab'rayshit .
PROMPTER: Mm-hm .
LARRY: It 's okay .
JUDITH: Sy had so much respect for you , LARRY . He pats her hand . A beat . . He wrote letters to the tenure committee .
MAN: Jesus Christ.. .
CONGREGATION: Amen . DANNY , still red-eyed , tries to focus .
MINDA: When the truth is found . To be lies . He pauses . He clears his throat . At length . And all the hope . Within you dies . Another beat . DANNY waits . Minda stares . He smacks his lips again . . Then what ?
LARRY'S OFFICE: LARRY is at his desk sorting through mail . Arlen Finkle ( off DANNY was magnificent .
LARRY: Oh . Thank you , Arlen . Arlen Finkle Mazel tov . It was wonderful .
LARRY: . Hello ?
LARRY: . Yes ?
VOICE: Hi , Len Shapiro .
LARRY: Oh . Hello Dr. Shapiro . Dr. Shapiro Listen , mazel tov on DANNY .
DANNY: Hey ! Fagle !
FOX: You ever see chemical interrogation efore ?
NICO: These assholes are agency ?
FOX: We 're all C.I.A . But these guys are from a page that ai n't on the map .
ZAGON: How long till we 're across the border ?
NICO: We 've been over for the past hour . The group continues along the ridge .
ZAGON: What are you looking at , hotshot ?
NICO: Why do n't you light a bonfire ?
ZAGON: Just drive the taxi , ace .
FOX: They 're in there .
NICO: I do n't trust these yo-yo 's .
ZAGON: That 's the nice thing about modern technology . You do n't have to wait for results . He moves close to the first prisoner .
FOX: What the hell 's wrong ?
ZAGON: This pussy ca n't hold his liquor .
NICO: What the fuck does this have to do with military intelligence ?
ZAGON: Your orders are 'assist and observe ' cherry Zagon turns to face Nico
FOX: Back off , partner
ZAGON: I 'm gon na start carving at your ankles . We 'll throw your feet in that box right over there . Then I 'm gon na take off your arms
NICO: Fox
FOX: Shut up , Nico .
ZAGON: You can disappear as easy as this slope , kid
FOX: Are you crazy ? ! ! What the fuck 's the matter with you ? ! ! !
NICO: I do n't cap him now , he 's gon na do me later .
FOX: I 'll cover this . Get back to the
SARA: Mama , look at this all done by hand .
ROSA: Nico had one just like this . Thank you , Cora . Cora , an aunt , proudly smiles .
NICO: I think we got a little problem here .
SARA: I carried him for the last nine months , you take him for the next diaper .
NICO: That 's what you get for not marrying a Sicilian .
SARA: My brave husband . He 's not afraid of thieves and muggers , but he 's terrified when his son poops in his pants .
LUKICH: Toscani holds the record for havin ' more relatives under federal indictment than any other cop in Chicago .
BRANCA: Look at these stiff dicks . A free meal and they come out like flies .
STROZAH: I did n't do nothing , Counselor . I 'm clean .
JACKSON: Eight more days , Lieutenant . You etter start preparing your defense .
HENDERSON: Baby , I 'm gon na put you on retainer .
LUKICH: You passed the bar ? I make it a point never to pass the bar .
LUIGI: Now this cop . She can bust me any day .
JACKSON: Look at this little bundle . What a cupcake !
NICO: You give up being the D.A . and hurry up and find the right fella , Jax . You might have time for one of these yourself .
SARA: Nico , will you let the woman catch her breath ?
NICO: Watanabe ! Say hey , Doc . They begin jabbering in Japanese .
BRANCA: You 're a father now . Are you gon na take me up on my offer ?
NICO: I 'm happy , Branca . I like what I do .
BRANCA: Look at this face ! Six-foot-four , pretty as the statue of David . And he 's a cop !
NICO: We 're happy .
LUIGI: Nickels and dimes . Your wife 's a woman with class . What did she run a ballet school ?
NICO: An art gallery .
BRANCA: Same thing . She wants a husband who carries a briefcase , not a shoulde holster .
UNCLE GUISEPPE: Let your family help you , Nico .
NICO: Uncle Gio , that kind of help I do n't need . I 'd rather get shot by someone I do n't know .
SARA: It 's Lucy . She 's gone again .
NICO: It 's that kid from the bar on Damen ? The one with the drugs ?
MRS. ZINGARO: Si , Nico .
NICO: We 'll talk , okay ? We 'll find a way to take care of this .
JACKSON: Unit Ten Tango X-ray . We 're up and clear .
NICO: I got ta take a quick leak . Stay put . He gets out of the car , starts for the bar .
NICO: Gentlemen .
BAD DUDE: Upstairs ! She 's upstairs ! 4-D !
NICO: You cocksuckers are brave enough with 14-year-old girls .
PIMP: Wait , man . It ai n't like it looks
NICO: That 's two years .
PIMP: Take it , baby . It 's all yours
NICO: Get your clothes on , Lucy .
PIMP: There 's money . Three grand in the mattress I can get ya more
STUD: Hey , sister , what it be ?
LUCY: Let him alone ! He 's beautiful !
NICO: Not when I get through with him .
PIMP: No , man , wait ! I 'll give you something ! Something big !
LUCY: Please , Nico ! Do n't !
PIMP: It 's huge ! I swear it ! A shipment coming in next Tuesday
NICO: Shipment , my ass .
PIMP: This is square ! On my mother 's soul ! You ca n't send me up
NICO: What lawyer ?
PIMP: I do n't know . That platinum chola Carla DeCarlo she knows . Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp 's throat .
JACKSON: It 's okay , girl . Mama Jax is here .
NICO: We 'll get her some clothes and a ath . I 'm not bringing her home to her grandmother like this .
JACKSON: I do n't get you , Toscani . What the hell are you doing being a shitheel cop ? With your background ?
NICO: When I was overseas , I saw some things . Things that eat your guts out . Things that stay in front of your eyes like they were burned in and branded . He turns to Jackson .
CARLA: I got 200 boyfriends .
JACKSON: Why ca n't you sons-a-bitches eve treat someone with a little espect ?
NICO: Take it easy , sister .
JACKSON: I ai n't your goddamn sister . We ai n't got the same mother , motherfucka .
NICO: Maybe we can bust him for that .
JACKSON: That 's our stud .
SALVANO: I brought you in for you muscles , Nardo , not your mouth .
NARDO: I 'm sorry , boss .
SALVANO: Your English is getting good You 're showing it off . Showing it off on the street
NARDO: I keep quiet . I never talk no more
SALVANO: Make yourself useful . Get downstairs , bring me one of these . Then get back to work .
NARDO: I thought I was dead , man . I thought I was fucking dead .
SALVANO: Clean up this mess .
CHI CHI: We 're crazy waiting for this ullshit 'shipment . ' Let me waste the other fucker now . Salvano puts a hand on Chi Chi 's shoulder .
SALVANO: Be patient . This will be done the way it was planned .
JACKSON: Toscani , you 're going to have me doing time .
NICO: Lighten up , Jax . No one 's inging this into court .
JACKSON: Except against us .
NICO: I do n't give a shit how we do it . I just wan na get there .
JACKSON: I thought you said you were gon na protect me . Cover my butt . Be my guardian angel
JACKSON: What ? What 's he saying ?
NICO: ' Engine block has cleared customs . Serial number VA-748 . Pick up Tuesday , 3 May as authorized . '
JACKSON: Salvano ?
NICO: Jackpot .
HOSTESS: Two for dinner ?
NICO: Two for drinks .
JACKSON: Gim me something stiff . I need it .
BARMAID: Who does n't ? Nico 's eyes never leave Chi Chi .
JACKSON: Why could n't it be a week from Tuesday ? I could read about it in the paper .
NICO: Cheer up , partner . I 'm gon na make you famous .
JACKSON: You missed a few spots , boys .
LUKICH: I 'm takin ' it home t ' a make kilbasa , boss .
NICO: Do n't you like company , Luke ? We got all the scouts here Drug Enforcement Agency , the Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms
JACKSON: ' And so I quit the police department got myself a steady job '
LUKICH: They spotted me . I 'm too good-
LUKICH: Police !
NICO: How many kilos you got in there , Skivuzo ?
SALVANO: I 'll tell you what this cop is . He 's a fucking menace !
AGENT HALLORAN: Your problem is being handled right now , Mr. Salv
SALVANO: Yeah ? Well , it shoulda been handled twelve hours ago . I do n't know who 's running this outfit , but somebody better get his goddamn wires straight !
AGENT NEELEY: yes , sir yes , sir , I understand
SALVANO: That maniac should be wearing a number , not a badge .
AGENT NEELEY: count on it , sir . Right . You 'll have our full cooperation .
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: This is no reflection on the work you officers have done . I feel , and the whole department feels , extremely proud of you initiative and gallantry .
NICO: Sir . With all respect to ou others in the Bureau * That 's no answer . It 's no answer to why one of the biggest dealers in the city is out on the street now , free as a bird !
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: Keep it in your pants , Nico . These men have a job to do , just like us .
AGENT NEELEY: Lieutenant , I think these officers are entitled to a fulle explanation .
AGENT NEELEY: What I 'm about to say does n't leave this room . Is that clear ? Assent from everyone .
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: The tapes too .
NICO: That 's my Lawrence Welk collection !
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: I want everything you got on this one .
AGENT HALLORAN: What 's the story on your partner , Jackson ? Did he learn this style or was he born with a brick up his ass ?
JACKSON: He has ethics . Unlike certain others on this case .
AGENT HALLORAN: His 'ethics ' are gon na cost him his badge and his gun .
JACKSON: You do n't wan na catch him without no gun . Halloran 's look asks why not ?
AGENT HALLORAN: He bad ?
JACKSON: Bad bad .
NICO: Anything you say , Jax . How about Salvano 's ?
JACKSON: Let it be , Nico .
NICO: Poetry , ai n't it ?
JACKSON: This is your mother 's church , is n't it ?
NICO: Yeah . But I bet she 's never seen these boys in the choir .
FATHER GENARRO: This must be your partner in crime . I 'm Father Genarro . I saw you at the baptismal party . What a partner .
JACKSON: Dolores Jackson Nico , we got ta go
FATHER GENARRO: No , please It 's good you stopped by . I have to show you something . Please .
NICO: When did this happen ?
FATHER GENARRO: Two nights ago . I did n't call the police .
FATHER TOMASSINO: How do you do ?
JACKSON: I did n't know this church was a sanctuary , Father .
FATHER GENARRO: Yes . But , perhaps not such a safe one .
NICO: How long have they been here ?
FATHER GENARRO: Too long . At least the kids can go to our school .
NICO: Who did it , Father ?
FATHER GENARRO: Kids , maybe . Maybe worse . It 's not the first time .
JACKSON: We can have a car check by , every hour .
FATHER GENARRO: No please . Police frighten these people .
NICO: Really , I do n't mind coming by .
FATHER GENARRO: Tell me , Nico When was you last confession ?
NICO: I 'm a married man , Father . I 've got no sins to confess .
FATHER GENARRO: You 're a police officer , you have many sins to confess .
JACKSON: Amen . Nico and Jackson start off .
FATHER GENARRO: You come back Sunday . I feel etter when I see Nicola in church . You do n't show , I 'm phoning you mother !
ROSA: Father Genarro ! I have you to thank for getting my son back into church !
FATHER GENARRO: It 's amazing what shame can accomplish .
SARA: Way to go , Julian perfect timing .
ROSA: Help the others ! Help them , Nico !
NICO: Help each other move outside . Be calm .
JACKSON: Right .
NICO: Then find those sanctuary people , the ones we saw in the church asement As Jackson makes notes .
JACKSON: Where are you gon na be ?
NICO: Just stay near a radio . I 'll find you .
AGENT NEELEY: What the hell is it , Toscani ?
NICO: You . That 's what the hell it is !
AGENT NEELEY: Get your goddam hands off me !
NICO: You let Salvano walk .
AGENT NEELEY: Salvano ? ! Are you crazy ? What does he have to do with this ?
NICO: That was no cherry bomb in there . That was C-fucking-4 ! I 've used that shit .
AGENT NEELEY: Salvano never came near that C-4 . It 's in federal holding now ! Besides , why would he blow up a church ?
NICO: I tailed Salvano . Two days ago . Him and one of his apes were in that church and they were n't taking communion . I saw some broad saw who was with his lawyer plant the bomb . Now I want some goddamn answers .
AGENT NEELEY: You tailed him ? After I ordered you off ?
NICO: Where is he ? Where 's Salvano ?
AGENT NEELEY: My orders were release him . Not abysit him .
NICO: I want the agent who signed fo the explosives .
AGENT NEELEY: I 'll do my job . You do yours .
NICO: Bank on it , pal .
MAID: You gon na be in real trouble , mister , when El Senor Salvano find out about dis .
FIRST LATINO: 'Cuse me , sir . Can I bum a light ?
PIPE MAN: We ai n't gon na shoot you , man . We gon na beat you to death . You gon na learn what it means to 'get down . '
FIRST GIRL: Fly , baby !
MACHETE MAN: No , hermano . Please
NICO: Who put up the money ?
MACHETE MAN: What money ? Nico grabs him by the hair .
NICO: You did n't come after me for a piece of ass . Who paid you ?
MACHETE MAN: I told ya ! No one !
NICO: Shut up !
MACHETE MAN: Jimmy Constanza !
NICO: If you 're lying to me , I 'll come and kill you right in your own fucking kitchen .
MACHETE MAN: Salvano ! Bautista Salvano !
NICO: Gracias , muchacho . Nico walks away .
SARA: I ca n't sleep . Will you come and hold me ?
NICO: Of course I will . I 've been waiting to hear from Jax . She was supposed to get back to me by now .
SARA: Thank God you could n't find you shoes . We would of have been sitting in the front row . Alright , I know the rules I do n't ask you do n't tell . But could 've died today and I deserve to know . Why did we go to church this morning ?
NICO: I 'm willing to break the rules ; I 'm willing to tell you whateve I know . But I need some time . Could you just give me some time ?
SARA: I 'll bet that 's her . Nico picks up the phone .
NICO: This better be good , Jax .
FOX: You should know not to use a name on an open line . I 'm gon na talk for fifteen seconds , then I 'm getting off . You 're in trouble , Nico .
SARA: That was Fox , was n't it ? Nico does n't answer .
NICO: It 's okay , sweetheart You know what a crazy bastard Fox is . He gets drunk and forgets he 's halfway around the world . He calls me . Nico gives her a squeeze and a smile .
O'HARA: Sorry , Nico . You 're under arrest .
AGENT NEELEY: I 'll take this , thank you .
NICO: No , you wo n't . I 'm gon na give it to you .
SARA: This is ridiculous there 's no need for this !
NICO: It 's all right , darling .
ROSA: Who do you think you are coming in here like this , treating my son like a criminal ?
SARA: Why are you terrifying us ? There 's an infant here !
AGENT HALLORAN: Check that coat .
SARA: Get your hands off him !
SARA: The Police Association 's got lawyers for this , you bastards !
AGENT HALLORAN: Illegal wiretaps . Unauthorized surveillance .
NICO: When were you born , asshole ?
AGENT NEELEY: Associating with known felons . Disobeying direct orders
NICO: Where 's Jackson ?
CROWDER: She 's outa this .
AGENT HALLORAN: You 're the rotten apple in this arrel , Toscani . We do n't have to look any farther than you and your 'family . '
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: Nico ! You damn fool ! You wan na go to prison ? !
CROWDER: Unlawful entry . Illegal search and seizure
NICO: You 'll never build a frame on this chickenshit .
AGENT NEELEY: You were ordered to back off on Salvano . But you had too big a hard-on for that , did n't you
NICO: Fred . You ca n't be in on this .
LIEUTENANT STROZAH: You 're officially suspended , Toscani . I want your tin and your iron .
NICO: You holding me ?
AGENT NEELEY: You can walk for now . But do n't walk far .
JACKSON: I found the sanctuary people .
JACKSON: Ready for this ? One of the people killed at the church was definitely not a congregation member .
NICO: You 're gon na make a helluva D.A. , Jax .
LUKICH: God help us .
JACKSON: I 've been at the Tribune all night , wearing out their Xerox machine . Harrison 's staff has been compiling some kind of white paper . He 's due to release it next week . Nico 's mind races .
NICO: That 's how Fox knew .
JACKSON: What ? Nico turns to Lukich , dead earnest .
NICO: Luke . I want you to go to my house . Call Branca my mothe has the number . Get my family eady to move out .
LUKICH: You got it , buddy .
NICO: Stay with 'em . We 'll be there .
LUKICH: What 's going on , Nico ? What happened ?
NICO: I got a call last night . An old agency friend . He told me my family was in danger .
LUKICH: You got a weapon ?
NICO: Sister you know me . Tell them there 's no need for fear .
SISTER BONIFACIA: There is rubble all over the yard , Nicola .
NICO: I was there in the church . They tried to kill my family , too .
REFUGEE WOMAN: The priest .
NICO: Who ? Father Genarro ?
REFUGEE WOMAN: The other one .
SISTER BONIFACIA: Father Tomassino .
NICO: But the bomb The bomb was planted to destroy the pulpit .
SISTER BONIFACIA: Father Tomassino was going to give the Mass that day . Father Genarro talked him out of it . The refugees ' faces confirm this .
NICO: It was Father Tomassino they were trying to kill .
REFUGEE MAN: He run , mister . He go He gestures `` who knows where ? ''
NICO: If you know where he is , you 've got to tell me . I want to help him . I can help him .
JACKSON: You see this list ? Well , I 'm not done .
NICO: Just paperwork , you understand ?
LUKICH: Yeah ?
NICO: Get their stuff into the car now . Do it in the alley , not the driveway . I 'll be there in five minutes .
SARA: Your job and your family in one day , Nico . You 're batting a thousand .
SARA: Mama you got your medicine ? Do n't forget the baby 's sweater
ROSA: I know about babies .
SARA: You sure you 're all right ?
NICO: I am if you are .
SARA: Do n't worry We needed a vacation , anyway .
NICO: * I 'll give you five minutes start . We have to do it this way .
LUKICH: She thinks there may be documents at some guy 's apartment .
NICO: They killed the wrong priest . Lukich does n't understand .
LUKICH: And you know where to find him ?
NICO: No .
LUKICH: You 're gon na need help .
NICO: Just stay with my family
LUKICH: What are you gon na do ?
NICO: You do n't want to know .
BRANCA: My sister 's cousin 's place . You 're safe not even I can find this joint .
NICO: Do n't forget your seat belt .
AGENT NEELEY: Congratulations , Toscani . You just made number four on the most wanted list .
NICO: Keep walking I 'm bucking for number one .
CLERK: What can I do for you , lads ?
AGENT NEELEY: There was a quantity of C-4 explosive ought in four days ago
CLERK: Hell , that 's gone .
NICO: When ?
CLERK: Right away , pardner . They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged .
NICO: Who ? Who took it ?
AGENT NEELEY: We 'd like to see the paperwork .
CLERK: You got ta sign .
AGENT NEELEY: Thank you . That 's what I wanted .
NICO: Dump your shoes . Ditch your I.D . on the floor . Nico watches the FBI man obey .
AGENT NEELEY: Nobody buys me , Toscani .
NICO: Yeah ? Then somebody pulled the plug on your brain , pal . You did n't come up with the second priest , did you ? Or Harrison 's dead aide .
AGENT NEELEY: Listen . Toscani
NICO: Watch your step .
CROWDER: The officer is alleged to be involved in illicit drug trafficking , racketeering and kidnapping
WATANABE: So good to see you again , sir ! Come back near closing five- thirty we 'll place your orde then .
NICO: Listen , Wat you know I would n't call in a favor
WATANABE: Of course not . Just because you kept a few 'friendly ' tribesmen from cutting my heart out and serving it up as Pad Thai ?
NICO: The old Spook .
JACKSON: Jackson .
WATANABE: No way to access Covert Ops directly . But Ornstein 's at Princeton , he 's got a database igger than Langley If I ca n't crack that turkey 's code , it 's time to hang up my ock and roll shoes Nico watches Watanabe work .
NICO: It 's a start . Nico sits down beside Watanabe .
WATANABE: You friend has found his metier .
NICO: Run personnel retrievals on all these operations . I want the names of every company man who was on them .
WATANABE: Central American desk . Central American desk . Central
NICO: Thirty names from secret drug operations and two-thirds of 'em are in Central America . All right . Run these two names Bautista Salvano and Ramon 'Chi Chi ' Testamente .
WATANABE: Those street dealers you were talking about ? They 're not gon na be in here .
NICO: Fox is here , in Chicago or was here Listen . Can this thing tap into airlines ? Reservations records
WATANABE: I can get you the ball scores , too .
NICO: Five agents from Central American desk . All trained assassins . All arrived in Chicago in the last week and none of them has left .
WATANABE: Where are you going ?
NICO: To find a priest .
JACKSON: The nun phoned me . She said two men had been sneaking around the church . She sounded scared Nico checks his .45 . Two spare clips .
ZAGON: You 'll be in heaven in a few minutes , padre . But first I 'm going to put you through hell .
FATHER TOMASSINO: This is from confession . I tell no one .
ZAGON: You would n't lie to me , Father ? It 's a sin .
NICO: You 're our backup . If we come out unning , then you can shoot .
ZAGON: Speak to me , Father who did you tell ?
FATHER TOMASSINO: I know what you are . I know what easts you are .
ZAGON: I want to know who you told .
FATHER TOMASSINO: I told them you make the ninos see castrating their fathers aping mutilating their mothers And and sometimes to the ninos
ZAGON: Can we kill him ? If you told anyone , about our plans to kill the senator , we can not do it .
NICO: Go ! Go !
ZAGON: Get him ! Finish him !
NICO: Had to be a hero another fucking hero . I 'm sorry Jax . He reaches for a small calendar , looks at it .
JACKSON: You call Nico 's goddamn Uncle and find out if he 's heard anything .
LUKICH: You just shutup and take it easy , pal .
BRANCA: Jesus Christ !
NICO: The motherfuckas got Jackson .
BRANCA: Lukich called . She 's not dead . She 's gon na make it . She was wearing a vest .
NICO: That broad did n't trust me .
BRANCA: It was picked up with your mail this afternoon .
BRANCA: He 's fine . The boy has ribs of steel !
ROSA: Enough of your humor .
BRANCA: Leave them . Leave them alone .
SARA: You 've got to do it , Nico . You know you have to .
ROSA: Listen to her , Nicola . Whatever you think of him , Federico is family . He is our family .
NICO: Ever notice how clean babies smell ? Like nothing in the world has touched them yet .
SARA: If you wo n't go to him , I will .
NICO: Do n't push me like this Her eyes meet his loving , but desperate .
SARA: Branca can put us on a plane but where can we fly to ? Tibet ? The moon ? There 's nowhere they ca n't find us .
NICO: You do n't know what the hell you 're talking about .
SARA: I 'm talking about everything I 've learned from you in the past five years . Nico is in agony .
NICO: You know I ca n't go to him . Sara takes both his hands in hers .
SARA: Do you know why I love you ? Do you know what it is about you that I 've always loved ? Pride . It 's what you have inside . You do n't live the way other people live . You trust what you see as ight and wo n't let anyone or anything make you stray from it .
FREDERICO LARUSSO: I am only an old man . An old man with a cancer .
NICO: I do n't have much time , Uncle . So I must speak plainly .
FREDERICO LARUSSO: I will be candid with you . I knew , probably before you did , that you would be coming to me . I knew what you would ask and I had every intention of refusing you . He glances to Nico .
NICO: Kurt Zagon .
FREDERICO LARUSSO: As long as this Zagon lives , nothing I can do will guarantee your family 's safety . 'Ecce non uomine , ecce bestie . ' You know Dante ? 'These are not men , these are animals . '
NICO: I will do that , Mr. Larusso . I hope you will be well .
BRANCA: You got the architect 's drawings ? Wiring , floor plans Nico indicates a briefcase he is carrying .
NICO: It 's all here .
BRANCA: I could help you from here on .
NICO: It 's not your business . Nico embraces his uncle by both shoulders .
BRANCA: Take care of yourself , Nicola .
NICO: That was n't the plan , Nelson .
FOX: Close range , huh ? Never work . Place is rigged , scanned every 35 seconds .
NICO: I was thinking of a mine on the roof . Remote-triggered , when the choppe comes in .
FOX: Roof 's wired too . Sensors every fifteen feet . Fox 's finger rests ready on the trigger .
NICO: You 're looking fit , Nelson .
FOX: Getting a bit of a tire .
NICO: Your own tailor ?
FOX: Hong Kong .
NICO: You 've gone a long way .
FOX: Uh uh . Uhhh-uh I know what you can do when you get too close to a man .
FOX: What 's so hard to believe . I want to help you , you dumb guinea !
NICO: Fox the fixer .
FOX: If I wanted to cap you , I 'd have saved myself this chit-chat . Make big points for me to bring in your scalp . I 'd be White House material .
NICO: Is that what Zagon is ? One of you asement boys ?
FOX: Zagon 's a rancher . 4000 acres in Costa Rica . Beautiful place .
NICO: Bought with what opium from Cambodia ?
FOX: And a ton a week of coke from othe places .
NICO: Which he funnels here through Salvano . With the Company getting its cut .
FOX: Legal tender .
NICO: Still dodging appropriations committees , eh , Nelson ?
FOX: That 's my job , Nico . They arrive at an elevator .
NICO: The Senator could n't be bought , could he ? He was gon na blow the lid off , so you cleared Zagon to frost him
FOX: Keep walking .
NICO: But the priest found out somehow and an here . You could n't do the Senator 's number 'till you knew if the priest had talked . So Zagon flew in with his little medical bag . Only by then I was in on it and you thought I might ecognize his handiwork .
FOX: If your name was Joe Smith I neve would have caught it . But how many Nicola Toscani 's are there ?
NICO: You got it off the arrest sheet .
FOX: I tried to warn you , old buddy . I knew you had wiretaps . and I knew you would n't let 'em go .
NICO: Only I was too dumb to crack it . I was so busy trying to figure a code , I did n't even recognize Zagon 's voice . It 's all crystal clear to Nico now .
FOX: Why not ? The Romans did .
NICO: Are we the Romans ?
FOX: We 're an empire too . Fox does n't like the look Nico gives him .
NICO: Doing what processing heroin ?
FOX: You 'consult . ' You 'assist . ' You send checks to your family . Zagon wo n't touch you , you 'll be on the team
NICO: Fuck you .
FOX: In five years you 're out , with a fat Swiss account and a GS-15 pension .
NICO: You know , Fox , right now in Israel they 're trying some 80-year-old camp guard for war crimes . And all around our country there are guys on Death Row for killing one person , two people . And probably they all deserve it
FOX: Stop right there !
NICO: not one C.I.A . agent has ever been tried or convicted , much less accused of any crimes . You motherfuckers think you 're above the law Well , you ai n't above mine .
ZAGON: We 've been looking for you , Nelson . I see you 've found our friend .
NICO: Thanks for the help , Fox .
FOX: I did n't bring him , Nico . I swear it !
ZAGON: Have you two been sharing fond memories ? Reminiscing about the good old days ?
FOX: Stay still ! Do n't fucking move ! !
ZAGON: Bring in our friend , Nelson . Salvano 's muzzle covers Fox and Nico
FOX: Dive , Nico ! !
ZAGON: Move !
ZAGON: No ! I want him ! I want him alive !
NICO: How are you gon na do him , Zagon ? In a motorcade ? Or passing through a hotel kitchen ?
ZAGON: I 've used these little beauties many times to extract information This 'll be the first time I 've ever used them just for fun .
NICO: Long enough to finish you .
LUKICH: Is there a hotel doctor ? Call 911 !
SENATOR HARRISON: Detective Toscani . I wanted to personally thank you . You are making it possible fo a sliver of truth to finally come out .
NICO: Your Honor .
JUDGE ALSPAUGH: Are you sure you 're feeling well enough ?
NICO: If you 're ready to listen , I 'm eady to talk .
FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
GIRL STUDENT: Do n't give up .
LUTHER: I never do .
GIRL STUDENT: May I ?
GIRL STUDENT: You work with your hands , do n't you ?
LUTHER: Redhead .
RED: Luther . Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R .
LUTHER: My only failing . As he turns
CHRISTY: It 's okay I told him I was sick anyway , he 's gone elax
CHRISTY: You fucking bastard . And on that
RICHMOND: You little whore And now they both try and stand .
RICHMOND: Kill her ? Collin , by the body , nods .
BURTON: No choice in the matter .
COLLIN: No choice in the matter .
RUSSELL: Do you realize what a shitstorm we 're in ? Go on tell me .
COLLIN: Nothing to tell . He screamed .
RUSSELL: And you heard no sounds of violence 'til then ?
BURTON: Nothing we have n't heard before .
RUSSELL: Bill ? Why do n't you think about that ? Take a second and just think about that . Think real fucking hard .
RUSSELL: Okay here 's what happened tonight poor Christy came home alone and interrupted a burglary . That sound logical ?
RICHMOND: Don ' 'member
RUSSELL: Bill , you 're going to have to examine her .
BURTON: I 'm no gynecologist .
RUSSELL: I just made you one . End of discussion .
RUSSELL: I 'll take that .
COLLIN: It 's got their prints on it .
RUSSELL: Thanks for sharing .
RICHMOND: Gloria I killed her
RUSSELL: It 's all going to be fine , Alan .
RICHMOND: But she 's dead
RUSSELL: I 'll take care of everything just like I always do . Gentlemen ? She gestures to leave .
COLLIN: Shit .
BURTON: What ?
BURTON: Shit !
COLLIN: Shit !
RUSSELL: Gee , guys , maybe it was the ogeyman do n't forget to check under the bed You may have buried us !
COLLIN: relax , I got his license number , remember ?
RUSSELL: you think he 's going to just sit around waiting for us ? Asshole
COLLIN: take it easy , Miss Russell
BURTON: everybody shut up , all right ?
RUSSELL: A two-way mirror . Silently , they move out into the bedroom .
COLLIN: I better get cracking on that license number
RUSSELL: it 's all we 've got and he 's got the letter opener blood , fingerprints Jesus , think what he can do
BURTON: the man is a thief a thief who witnessed a murder
RED: Jordan beat us at the buzzer .
LUTHER: Bad night . And as he turns , goes
LUTHER: Dumb way to start this , I guess . Beat .
KATE: About ?
LUTHER: Believe it or not , the weather . Nights are starting to get cold .
KATE: That happens this time of year . Luther speaks quickly now , his voice low .
LUTHER: I was thinking of maybe elocating . Someplace with a kinder climate . I just wanted to check it out with you first you 're the only family I 've got . And on that Kate speaks quickly now , her voice low .
KATE: Luther , you do n't have me .
LUTHER: Kate
KATE: you know what it 's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day ?
LUTHER: This move I 'm talking permanent , you understand .
KATE: We do n't see each other anyway we have n't seen each other since Mom died and that 's a year . Look , you chose your life . You had that right . You were neve around for me . Fine . But I have no plans to be around for you .
LUTHER: no
KATE: are you active again ? is that why you 're here now ?
LUTHER: no Kate moves in close now
KATE: I do n't believe you Christ , Father , what have you done ? And on those words
SETH: Christy Sullivan ?
MEDICAL EXAMINER: Wife of Walter most likely came home and stumbled onto a urglary
LAURA SIMON: I wish my carpets were this clean .
SETH: You serious , Laura ?
LAURA SIMON: It 's like Mary Poppins was here .
SETH: Could someone have let him in ?
LAURA SIMON: Sorry , Seth , but the entire Sullivan household went to Barbados two days ago .
SETH: Thank you for your support .
LAURA SIMON: Wait it gets worse the shots came from here . If she interrupted a burglary , she should have been here she was killed where she is all the blood patterns indicate that . But she was looking toward the bed what in hell was she looking at ?
SETH: I hope not he 's such a great man . He moves back into the bedroom .
MEDICAL EXAMINER: Looks like he tried to strangle her .
SETH: So he tried to strangle her , then went to the door and shot her from ehind ?
MEDICAL EXAMINER: He also inspected her vagina . Seth . Stunned .
SETH: He did what ? Why ?
LAURA SIMON: Maybe he could n't remember if he fucked her .
SETH: A strong burglar with a weak mind obviously another open and shut case As he stares around , baffled .
SANDY LORD: my client is in no mood fo conversation , sir .
WALTER SULLIVAN: It 's all right , Sandy you 're in charge of the case ?
SETH: I have to ask some questions , but it can be tomorrow .
WALTER SULLIVAN: You want what , positive identification ? Yes , that was my wife . Anything else ?
SETH: You 'd been in Barbados for two days ?
WALTER SULLIVAN: I took the entire staff down always do this time of year .
SETH: But Mrs. Sullivan did n't come .
WALTER SULLIVAN: She was , had it all planned , but you know women , they change thei minds .
SANDY LORD: I think that 's enough for today . Takes Walter 's arm .
SETH: I have to ask about the vault .
WALTER SULLIVAN: You mean the contents of the vault of course Sandy , you go on , I 'm all ight . Really . Go to the reception obviously I ca n't make it , but I 'm sure everyone will understand .
SETH: Yessir , I do .
WALTER SULLIVAN: But why ? Are they connected ?
SETH: I think someone sat in it and I think that someone may have been involved in the murder . You were my father 's hero , Mr. Sullivan , I promise you this wo n't make my highlight reel .
WALTER SULLIVAN: I 'd hoped I could satisfy her ut you know she had needs and she did n't want to go behind my ack she suggested the chair she hoped I might get to like sitting there I did n't I 've tried for eighty years to live a decent life . I 've given a illion dollars to charity . If this comes to trial , none of that will be remembered I 'll just go out as the joke of the world . Seth . He closes his notebook .
SETH: I understand , sir ; I 'll do what I can .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Will you listen to me whine ? Please forgive me , Mr. Frank . Just do your job . And I 'll do mine .
SANDY LORD: Mr. President .
RICHMOND: Take a walk with me .
SANDY LORD: Eighty and alone , Mr. President .
RICHMOND: He understands officially my hands are tied ?
SANDY LORD: Mr. President , he 's touched at your concern .
RICHMOND: Any news of the killer ? Well , why is n't there ? Who 's in charge of the case ?
SANDY LORD: Top man eight years homicide work in New York . But I understand how you feel it 's hard to be patient .
RICHMOND: No one understands how I feel I 'm supposed to have all this power but I ca n't help my oldest friend you know and I know that more than any man alive Walte Sullivan put me here and now when he most needs me , he must feel abandoned .
SANDY LORD: He 'll treasure that , Mr. President . What a generous gesture . Thank you . Thank you .
RICHMOND: Damn tennis elbow is killing me . And on that
RUSSELL: The country would have to be informed , Mr. President .
RICHMOND: What happened to my right to privacy ? I think she nicked a tendon .
RUSSELL: Burton says it 's a flesh wound
RICHMOND: when did you become such an expert , Bill ? Ever been wounded ?
BURTON: Yes , sir . Many times .
RUSSELL: Are you serious about that press conference , Alan ?
RICHMOND: Of course I am Walter 's been like a father to me .
RUSSELL: Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home for it ?
RICHMOND: I think Mrs. Richmond 's mission to help the poor in Asia should not e interrupted . We know anything yet ?
RUSSELL: We checked his license plate he stole the car from a police impoundment lot .
RICHMOND: We 're not dealing with a fool here . Has he initiated contact ?
RUSSELL: Burton does n't think he will .
RICHMOND: I agree . Sorry about my behavior wo n't happen again ; think of it as a lip on the screen . And as far as I 'm concerned , so is he .
RUSSELL: He could be a little more than that , Alan he saw . Richmond . Big .
RICHMOND: He saw nothing a drunk woman who liked rough sex too much . And he 's a burglar . Who 's going to elieve him ? After all , it 's not as if he had evidence or anything And on those words
VALERIE: You always did disappear good , Luther .
LUTHER: You mean I 've got a weak face . Thanks , Val .
VALERIE: You 're lucky is all some of my customers , they stand out no matter what .
LUTHER: Four should cover it .
VALERIE: Now you 'll want different looks , and matching international driver 's licenses I 'll throw in some dummy credit cards , seeing it 's you . How the rugs I made you holding up ?
LUTHER: They 're good . Beards and mustaches , too .
VALERIE: I try to give value for money . Leaving the country permanent ?
LUTHER: It may come to that .
VALERIE: Matter where you 've been ? I hate doing those goddam Asian passport stamps .
LUTHER: Europe 's fine . Maybe the Caribbean for winters . When can I pick up ?
VALERIE: Usually takes some time , but fo you , I 'll rush it .
LUTHER: Thanks , Val . I 've always been able to count on you .
VALERIE: I do n't want to know what you 're into , but leaving forever
LUTHER: Finish it .
VALERIE: I never figured you for a runne thirty percent of my runners kill themselves within five years .
LUTHER: Five years does n't sound so bad to me just now . And as he heads out
SETH: See if any of this makes sense .
LAURA: Now you 're the burglar coming out of the vault and being surprised .
SETH: Gold star . I draw my gun
LAURA: then why do you bother to strangle her when you could just shoot ?
SETH: That 's nothing why do I bothe to have her strip and then put he clothes back on ?
LAURA: There I can help you see , efore you were a burglar you were a dry cleaner and you still love eautiful clothes .
SETH: And I dress her because ?
LAURA: She was a good customer and you did n't want her embarrassed when the police came .
SETH: She had a point-21 blood alcohol level . she was too drunk to drive . I 've checked every cab and limo company in the area and not one of them knows anything . Someone drove her home . Goddamit , who ? And why have n't they come forward ?
LAURA: Maybe whoever drove her home killed her .
SETH: You saying the burglar drove he home ? I hate this case .
TELEPHONE REPAIRMAN: Lieutenant ? sorry to bother you
SETH: Good service , thanks .
TELEPHONE REPAIRMAN: Part of the job .
SETH: Oh yeah remember that bullet hole in the wall ? Had the lab dig out the slug guess what no slug why does the burglar take the time to do that ?
LAURA: Different from the one in he ody ?
SETH: Oh I like that a lot two different guns means two different urglars . Two guys broke in ? And they both went out the window ? Bullshit . And oh , by the way , why does he or they go out the window in the first place when he or they got in by breaking a zillion- dollar security system ?
COP: A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot .
SETH: Here , you solve the goddam thing . Did I mention that I hate this case ? I really truly hate this case you can not imagine how much I hate it
BURTON: Bill Burton , hi
SETH: hi , Seth Frank
BURTON: I know you must be going crazy but the boss is very interested in your progress . Maybe we can help each other .
SETH: What did you have in mind ?
BURTON: You know how close he and Sullivan are ? The minute anything breaks , if you 'd call me , I 'd tell the President . That way , he 'd be the first to alert Mr. Sullivan it would mean a lot to him . And any ed tape you want cut done . Here are my numbers . He turns , opens his front car door .
SETH: Still trying to figure out what might have happened
BURTON: I loved playing Sherlock Holmes .
SETH: You Secret Service guys do that ?
BURTON: I was State Trooper here ten years ago before the Government got me . Seth . It just pops out .
SETH: You 're that Bill Burton . Burton . Embarrassed .
BURTON: I was younger and dumber then . Keep in touch . Seth waves as Burton drives away .
WALTER SULLIVAN: The chef makes them especially fo me I promise you they 're sinful .
WALTER SULLIVAN: When I was 10 my father died he was a miner and lung disease killed him . I became rich at 25 and the first thing I did was purchase that mine , close it , and give every miner there fifty thousand dollars to retire on . You will come to Washington , Mr. McCarty . You will put one million
LAURA: Who is he ?
SETH: Luther Whitney one of the great thieves of the world . Seth . The words pour out .
LAURA: Why have n't I ever heard of him ?
SETH: Because he has n't been arrested in thirty years .
LAURA: This his graduation picture from Harvard ?
SETH: Ancient history he was n't a jewel thief back then . Just a kid , just part of a gang , a three- time loser . But since he got out the last time , he 's only worked alone
LAURA: Seth we can make this stick I 'll bet you anything this is ou guy a local ? ca n't ask fo more
LAURA: what ?
SETH: Whitney has n't killed anyone in 45 years . Laura does n't get it .
LAURA: Big deal , so he 's a veteran .
SETH: Not just a veteran a wounded veteran . Got his combat record here .
LUTHER: Boy , you must be smart .
SETH: Sorry ?
LUTHER: Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me . You look just like your picture , Seth . I 'm Luther Whitney .
SETH: Before I send you away for life , I should probably check out you alibi .
LUTHER: Watched the Bullets game with Red Bransford . Prison buddy of mine runs a bar want to question me about the game ? I 'm probably lying .
SETH: You been following the case ?
LUTHER: I love true crime
SETH: F.B.I . feels only a few guys could have handled something as hard as the Sullivan job . I 've got a list here ; you 're on it .
LUTHER: I wish it was true . Your robber actually went in the front door but came out down a ope in the dark in the middle of the night ? If only I could do stuff like that I 'd be the star of my A.A.R.P . meetings .
SETH: Luther ? Why was this so hard ?
LUTHER: You want me to help solve you case ?
SETH: Just looking for insight . How would you scratch that how would one go about it ? What kind of person do you think I should be looking for ?
LUTHER: Older fella . Like me .
SETH: Because ?
LUTHER: Need patience . The secret is just esearch , research , research from everything I 've read .
SETH: Research for what ?
LUTHER: Well , from what I can tell on the tube , it 's not a small house . There had to be an architect , ight ? You 'd be able to tell which one from public records in the library . And once you know the office , you could break in and find the plans and Xerox them , get them back before morning .
SETH: Not just steal them ?
LUTHER: Seth breaking in is n't hard what 's hard is breaking in so no one knows you 've been there . Now , after the architect , next you 'd want the contractor 's office and the security company 's office . You know the skill involved eaking the security of a security company ? I wonder how those guys do it ?
SETH: Why go to all that trouble ?
LUTHER: Papers said he kept the money in a vault , yes ? Well , I 'm guessing there was probably some secret way to open it
SETH: clicker
LUTHER: explain
SETH: gizmo looked like a V.C.R . emote
LUTHER: amazing must have been a lot of money inside .
SETH: Five million . And on those words
LUTHER: The way you said it as if you were trying to surprise me .
SETH: I was trying to surprise you .
LUTHER: There you go .
SETH: Would the burglar use a disguise ?
LUTHER: Seth , you 've got to get with the program you expect to catch this guy most likely it is a guy , am I right ? Some kind of weird loner ?
SETH: Maybe like you .
LUTHER: I 'm the perfect prototype . But you see any face often enough , you 'll start putting things together . That 's why these top guys disguise themselves . I read a great article a couple of years ack damn , I wish I could emember where anyway , it was about these makeup experts some of them use wigmakers , people like that .
SETH: Go on about the wigmakers .
LUTHER: I 'd love that but I 'm late as it is got to get my pacemake checked . all this excitement , you understand .
SETH: A ) You do n't have a pacemaker , and B ) I 'll be back tomorrow .
LUTHER: Tomorrow is promised to no one . HOLD ON Luther .
LUTHER: Turn that off , okay ?
BARTENDER: In a sec .
RICHMOND: As you know , I came from an impoverished family in an impoverished town but we lived with our doors unlocked .
LUTHER: Put it back on .
BARTENDER: You said
LUTHER: Do it CNN . Walter Sullivan is still there .
RUSSELL: He was in the building he took a guided tour .
BURTON: he does n't want money
BURTON: No , I just looked on the back see ? Luther has written something .
RUSSELL: ' I do n't want money . '
LUTHER: This guy sure has the guts of a urglar . Wish we had him . Collin laughs .
RUSSELL: You finished your recruiting speech ? Because I 'd like to know how I handle this .
BURTON: Like you handled the lette opener ? Russell . She studies Burton . Then
RUSSELL: Gee , Bill , that could be construed as criticism . Do you really want me as an enemy ?
BURTON: Miss Russell , I should have called the police that night . But I was weak . You convinced me to stay silent . I regret that . Know this every time I see you face I want to rip your throat out . Russell . Silence .
RUSSELL: Fine you win the pissing contest what should I do ?
BURTON: Nothing because he 's making a terrible mistake , he thinks he has time he does n't Seth Frank 's too good . He 'll bring him in .
RUSSELL: Then what ?
COLLIN: Then I kill him . Now , from them
SETH: For a tough prosecutor , you do n't esemble your reputation , Miss Whitney .
KATE: Is that good or bad ?
SETH: What would you do if I just turned around and left ?
KATE: Report you as an incompetent .
SETH: You 're exactly like you eputation , Miss Whitney As they head out
KATE: what ?
SETH: You think it 's all coincidence ? He 's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area ?
KATE: Wow that never crossed my mind you think there might be some connection ? Like maybe I 'm somehow compensating ? I bette write that down .
SETH: Luther disappeared .
SETH: I think you can help me .
KATE: Lieutenant I do n't know the man he was in jail when I was a kid , when he got out my mother and I went off to live by ourselves . We do n't make contact . He does n't care about me . I 've seen him all of once this past year .
SETH: When ?
KATE: Couple days ago . He said he might e going away . There . I just helped you . Can I go back to work now ?
SETH: Any idea where he might have gone ?
KATE: Quit wasting my time if he does n't want you to find him , you 're not going to find him .
SETH: You saying he 's left town , skipped the country , what ?
KATE: I 'm saying you wo n't recognize him . I 'm saying he could be just around the corner he always kept a safe house
SETH: where ?
KATE: He never said
SETH: Then where 'd you hear this ?
KATE: my mother loved him , all right ? Even after she left him even when she was dying she always talked about him 'If only he had n't this , ' 'if only he could have that ' She stops . Seth , watching her .
SETH: And ?
KATE: I meet a lot of asshole cops like you guys who O.D . 'd on Columbo
SETH: Lady , I may be an asshole cop ut you do n't know me well enough to call me one
KATE: There 's something else , is n't there ? Something you want me to do ? But you wo n't say - Seth . There is . But he wo n't say .
SETH: Years .
KATE: Never been .
SETH: Strange place for a thief to leave a key , do n't you think ?
KATE: He always did that
SETH: He sure took off in a hurry . What scares a professional thief like that ?
KATE: but he was n't at those places college graduation ; law school graduation ; the night Mom and I celebrated when I got a job ; and me alone on the steps ? I 'd just won my first case , I was so proud I used to think sometimes I 'd come home and I 'd sense he 'd een in my apartment , checking the fridge , shaking his head because he never thought I ate right It 's crazy but I just knew Daddy was watching over me And now she loses it , starts crying silently .
SETH: You can do a good thing , Kate help me bring him in . Just leave a message on his phone machine , you 're worried about him .
KATE: No
SETH: It 's the truth you are worried about him this is n't you normal case his life may be in danger you can save him , make the call
KATE: He wo n't come
SETH: Of course he 'll come . You 're all he has .
KATE: I left a message on his machine , he called back within an hour ; we 're meeting tomorrow afternoon .
SETH: Where ?
LUTHER: I need to look really good today . He does n't like the hat .
SALESMAN: Business ? It 's a woman , I can tell . Never too late , is it ? Luther . Beaming .
LUTHER: You got that right . Now , from his happy face
BURTON: The Boss is very grateful . Thanks .
SETH: Figured he 'd like an eyewitness eport of the capture . This is our guy if he 's innocent , he sure took off awful fast .
WAITER: Miss ? What you want please ? His English could be a lot better .
KATE: Nothing , thank you .
WAITER: Got to .
KATE: Pardon ?
WAITER: You sit you eat please .
SETH: This is not part of my brilliant master plan . More Tums .
BURTON: Unfuckingbelievable . They both crunch away .
KATE: I 'm waiting for someone .
WAITER: He must eat too , please .
KATE: Oh he will , we both will we 'll order half the menu but just not now
WAITER: Cheesecake gone .
KATE: Thank you so much .
LUTHER: I did not kill that woman , Kate .
KATE: Messy .
SETH: I like that in a woman . She does n't smile .
SETH: Top number 's local police other two are my office and home . I live alone , too , call anytime . Want me to get someone to spend the night ?
KATE: I just need some sleep .
SETH: I 've got surveillance outside . And I 'm keeping it on 'til this is over . I 've got a feeling he 's going to try and contact you .
KATE: You 're on a hot streak , I guess .
SETH: Listen , I 'm sorry . Kate . Nothing to say .
KATE: You said .
SETH: Feeble , huh ?
KATE: Anything for the road ? I 've got water and water .
SETH: Deal .
SETH: Pelligrino would be great . What 's funny , I say it wrong ?
KATE: Tired is all . As she hands him a bottle .
SETH: I do n't think I 've told you this , ut I live alone . Lock it behind me .
KATE: How 's that ?
LUTHER: You have to know I 'm not a murderer .
KATE: No , this afternoon . To the estaurant . Why 'd you come then ? You must have suspected something , or you would n't have been prepared .
LUTHER: My daughter wanted to see me .
KATE: The same two guys who tried fo you this afternoon ?
LUTHER: Probably only one of them . I think Walter Sullivan might have hired the other .
KATE: Pretty powerful enemy ; good going .
LUTHER: Not as powerful as the President of the United States . Kate just looks at him . Dead silence .
LUTHER: Every word true .
KATE: You 're saying you 're innocent of
LUTHER: Because I swear on Mattie 's grave .
LUTHER: On your mother 's grave , Kate you know I 'd kill myself before I 'd lie about that .
KATE: Jesus , Luther .
LUTHER: I know .
KATE: They 'll kill you .
LUTHER: I know .
KATE: Can you run ? Luther as he sits beside her on the couch .
LUTHER: I was set to . At the airport . All the money I 'd ever need .
LUTHER: but I 've never robbed anyone could n't afford it and I 've neve stiffed a waitress . And Alan Richmond has to pay .
KATE: What can you do ?
LUTHER: Not much , maybe but I only went to jail when I had partners . People betray each other , Kate nowadays , when there 's a group , someone wants to write a book
LUTHER: This is probably it ; you understand that . I was never going to tell you this , but I watched you argue a case last year thank God you got your brains from your mother .
KATE: It 's dangerous outside .
LUTHER: It always is and I may not make you proud , Kate but I 'm not going down alone And on that
DOORMAN: Want me to sign anything ?
LUTHER: I trust you . And he turns , walks quickly away as we
RICHMOND: You 're a vision this evening , Miss Russell .
RUSSELL: Thank you , Mr. President . And thank you , Mr. President .
RICHMOND: For ? Come again ?
RUSSELL: You sent it to me this afternoon . Long pause then
RICHMOND: Well , of course . Excuse me , all I am overcome with the desire to dance with my Chief of Staff .
RUSSELL: Your gift , Alan I was overwhelmed and your note was so gratifying
RICHMOND: I sent a note ?
RUSSELL: Yes , yes , you think I do n't know your writing ? I assumed you wanted me to wear it tonight .
RICHMOND: It is lovely , Gloria and you know what else ? They do a perfect dip .
RUSSELL: What , Alan ?
RUSSELL: It 's not precisely the first time , Mr. President .
RICHMOND: You 've been keeping things from me ?
RUSSELL: Only because you have so much on your plate , Alan ; we wanted to spare you . He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday .
RICHMOND: Well , now I need time to think come see me in my office in the morning This will certainly make for an interesting chapter in my memoirs . And as they bow
BURTON: What are you doing ?
COLLIN: Needed a pen .
BURTON: There 's pens you do n't trust me ?
COLLIN: I do n't answer to you , asshole
RUSSELL: You 're both assholes , now move And on that
RICHMOND: Any idea who could have forged it ?
BURTON: I talked to Seth Frank apparently Whitney learned how in prison .
RICHMOND: Very gifted man . The window as he walks to it , looks out .
RUSSELL: We 're working round the clock .
RICHMOND: Good to know that .
BURTON: He 'll make a mistake .
RICHMOND: Good to know that too .
BURTON: You 're sure you want to do that ?
RICHMOND: She 's a young prosecutor , prosecutors ask questions she might know what he knows Let 's get cracking , shall we ? Show you love your country . On those words
SUPER: Sorry , Miss Whitney , but this thing 's giving us a little trouble . Kate nods , smiles back , relieved .
SETH: Where are you ?
LUTHER: I 'm not staying on long enough fo you to track this , just answer me .
SETH: She could n't be in better hands talk about catching a break , Secret Service called me . They 're taking over surveillance
SUPER: Got it working fine , Miss Whitney . Kate nods , smiles back
LUTHER: Kate ?
LUTHER: Scream . Go on . Which do you want most , for me to kill you or life in jail forever ?
COLLIN: you 're not going to kill me
LUTHER: why do you think that ?
COLLIN: you could have but you did n't Luther . Kneeling by Collin now .
LUTHER: That 's because you did n't know your crime , prick .
COLLIN: mercy
LUTHER: I 'm fresh out .
LUTHER: I need one answer when you interviewed Walter Sullivan , did he say why Christy did n't go to Barbados ?
SETH: Just that she changed her mind . You know who did it , do n't you ?
LUTHER: So will you check you phones
SETH: who 'd tap a police officer ?
CHAUFFEUR: I 'm your replacement driver fo the evening , sir . Do n't worry ,
WALTER SULLIVAN: Very unusual what do I call you ?
LUTHER: Luther , sir .
WALTER SULLIVAN: And are you familiar with how to get to my home , Luther ?
LUTHER: I know the way , sir I 'm the man who robbed you Sullivan says nothing ; stares unsmiling .
WALTER SULLIVAN: I 'm sorry I missed I believe in the Old Testament , sir there is nothing wrong with an eye fo an eye when a terrible deed has een done . A deed such as yours .
LUTHER: You want to believe that , do n't you ? Makes your life a lot simpler if you believe that , is n't that right ? What do you think I gain being here ? Sullivan . Contempt .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Have no idea you going to ro me again ?
LUTHER: I do n't need your money , Mr. Sullivan . Look in your vault lately ?
WALTER SULLIVAN: I 'm afraid we 're a little late fo an attempt at leniency .
LUTHER: Shit 's coming down tonight , Mr. Sullivan , do you want to be a player or not ? Do you want to know what happened , or not ? I saw . Your call .
WALTER SULLIVAN: I want to know .
LUTHER: Are you up to hearing about it ? Do you want to hear how he beat the shit out of her and tried to strangle her you have enough left for that ?
WALTER SULLIVAN: I could walk through fire Luther , fast now .
LUTHER: I was in the chair when they came in . They were drunk at first he only wanted to bruise her she fought back , he went for the kill she turned the tables . Then he screamed for help . Pause .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Who else was in my house ?
LUTHER: Secret Service shot her .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Nonsense .
LUTHER: Gloria Russell handled the cove up .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Stop this
LUTHER: do n't you want to know who the man was ?
WALTER SULLIVAN: It was you .
LUTHER: We 're too old to bullshit each other , Mr. Sullivan .
WALTER SULLIVAN: Who was it then ?
LUTHER: You know !
WALTER SULLIVAN: Stop the car
LUTHER: we 're going all the way , Walter
WALTER SULLIVAN: it 's too terrible .
LUTHER: It sure is .
WALTER SULLIVAN: I know about Alan 's reputation as a philanderer but he would never dream of betraying me I gave him the Presidency .
LUTHER: The press conference remember ? he held you in his arms and said if only Christy had n't gotten
WALTER SULLIVAN: That 's not real proof . Luther . Handing something back .
LUTHER: And this ? Sullivan takes it it 's the letter opener . Sullivan leans back , shuts his eyes .
WALTER SULLIVAN: You could have stolen this .
LUTHER: I did steal it . But that is n't my lood and those are n't my prints .
WALTER SULLIVAN: I did love her , you know . And he walks away .
GUARD: You do n't need an appointment , Mr. Sullivan . And as he waves him through Luther , standing there , watching the old man . Walter , a final turn back , a nod of the head .
KATE: you 're still here ?
LUTHER: Have n't budged . She dozes again .
KATE: was that Seth ?
LUTHER: He was just checking in . When you 're up to it , he said we might
LUTHER: Watch it now . He arranges her sheets .
KATE: you do n't have to fuss
LUTHER: You were forever catching colds . She nods , drifts and we
KATE: am I going to be all ight ? .
LUTHER: We 'll be fine . Kate nods , drifts . Luther watches her . Then he goes to his chair
CAPTAIN: What the hell is it ?
EXEC: I 'll tell you what it 's not , it 's not one of ours .
EXEC: Eighty knots
BARNES: Still diving , depth nine hundred feet . Port
FRANK: Still diving , depth nine hundred feet . Port
EXEC: It 's getting tight in here .
CAPTAIN: We can still give him a haircut . Helm , come ight to oh six niner , down five degrees .
HELMSMAN: Coming right to oh six niner , sir . Down five degrees .
NAVIGATOR: Port side clearance one hundred twenty feet narrowing to seventy-five . Sir , we have a proximity warning light .
EXEC: That 's too damn close ! We 've got ta back off .
EXEC: Nothing goes one thirty !
CAPTAIN: Helm , all stop ! Full right rudder !
CAPTAIN: Collision alarm ! Collision alarm ! Lighten her up , Charlie !
NAVIGATOR: The torpedo room is flooded , sir !
CAPTAIN: Blow all tanks ! Blow everything !
HELMSMAN: Passing twelve hundred feet
EXEC: Blowing main tanks !
HELMSMAN: Twelve hundred fifty feet
EXEC: Main forward tanks ruptured !
HELMSMAN: Passing thirteen hundred feet
EXEC: Too deep to pump auxiliaries !
CAPTAIN: All back full ! All back full !
CAPTAIN: We 're losing her . Launch the buoy !
MCBRIDE: Does not look good at all .
DEMARCO: I need them to go to over two thousand .
KIRKHILL: They can do it . Get Brigman on the line .
BUD: Hey , you guys are milking that job .
JAMMER: Bud ! Hippy 's on the bitch-box . It 's a call from topside . That new company man .
ONE NIGHT: Here you go , hon ' .
SONNY: Just in time , sugar .
ONE NIGHT: Dammit , we just got out here .
SONNY: There was a time when I would have asked why .
FINLER: What 's goin ' on ? How come we got recalled ?
SONNY: Hell is I know .
CATFISH: Just follow standard procedure , will ya flog the dog till somebody tells us what 's happening .
ONE NIGHT: Save you money , darlin ' the pages are all stuck together by now . Bud enters , approaching the group .
JAMMER: What 's goin ' on , Boss ?
SONNY: She-hit .
BUD: We 're being asked to cooperate in a matter of
DEMARCO: At 09 22 local time this morning , an American
ONE NIGHT: You want us to search for the sub ?
CATFISH: Hell , for triple time I 'd crawl through razo lades and shower off with lime juice .
KIRKHILL: I think we 're all on the same wavelength ,
JAMMER: When Lindsey finds out about this , it 's not gon na be a pretty sight .
ONE NIGHT: They 're going to have to shoot her with a tranquilizer gun .
COFFEY: Just hold it over the deck .
LINDSEY: I ca n't believe you let them do this !
BUD: Hi , Lins . I thought you were in Houston .
BUD: Was n't up to me .
LINDSEY: We were that close to proving a submersible
BUD: Your rig ?
LINDSEY: My rig . I designed the damn thing .
LINDSEY: You wimp . I had a lot riding on this . They
BUD: I 'm switching off now .
LINDSEY: Virgil , you wiener ! You never could stand up to fight . You Bud hits the switch and the screen goes dead .
BUD: Bye .
HIPPY: Virgil ?
BUD: God , I hate that bitch .
LINDSEY: Let 's go , gentlemen ! We either launch now o we do n't launch .
COFFEY: Lady , we better fish or cut bait .
LINDSEY: Just hold your water , okay ?
KIRKHILL: Alright , alright . Christ Almighty ! He gestured dismissively to McBride .
MCBRIDE: Cab Three , you are clear to launch .
LINDSEY: Roger . There 's only one way it 's going to happen
BUD: Oh no you got ta be kidding me .
CATFISH: Howdy , y'all . Hey , Lindsey ! I 'll be damned ! You should n't be down here sweet thing , ya 'll might run ya stockings .
CATFISH: Okay , here we go . Start equalizing , y'all .
LINDSEY: Get comfortable . The bad news is we got six
COFFEY: We 've been fully briefed , Mrs. Brigman .
LINDSEY: Oh chamber runs . Uh huh , that 's good . Well , hey you guys know any songs ?
HIPPY: Now we get to hear about how he used to be a contender .
JAMMER: Hippy was n't born then .
COFFEY: Curiosity killed the cat .
CATFISH: Y'all'er done to a turn and ready to serve . Everybody okay ?
LINDSEY: Hey , was there a wall here before ? I do n't emember a wall here . Oh , Jammer ! Hi . The 'wall ' grins down to her .
JAMMER: Howdy , there , little lady .
COFFEY: Show us the dive prep area . We need to check out your gear .
BUD: Well , well . Mrs. Brigman .
LINDSEY: Not for long .
LINDSEY: Not even when it meant something . Is that One Night up in Flatbed ?
BUD: Who else ?
LINSEY: Hi , One Night , it 's Lindsey .
ONE NIGHT: Oh , hi , Lindsey .
BUD: I ca n't believe you were dumb enough to come down . Now you 're stuck here for the storm dumb , hot-rod dumb .
LINDSEY: Look , I did n't come down here to fight .
BUD: Then why 'd you come down ?
BUD: I think you were worried about me .
LINDSEY: That must be it .
BUD: No , I think you were . Come on , admit it .
LINDSEY: You 've got to have priorities .
LINDSEY: What are you still wearing that for ?
LINDSEY: I have n't worn mine in months .
BUD: Yeah , what's-his-name would n't like it . The Suit .
BUD: So what about `` Michael '' then Mr. Brooks Brothers Mr. BMW . You still seeing him ?
LINDSEY: No , I have n't seen him in a few weeks .
BUD: What happened ?
LINDSEY: You 're right , Bud . It was just that simple . Are n't you clever ? You should get your own show Ask Dr . Bud , advice to the lovelorn from three hundred fathoms .
BUD: Shit .
SONNY: This tells us how much radiation we get ?
CATFISH: Hippy , you pussy .
BUD: Okay Hippy 's not going McWhirter , you can run Little Geek .
HIPPY: No way ! No way ! He ca n't fly an ROV worth shit . I 'll go . Shit !
COFFEY: On the dive , you will do absolutely nothing without direct orders from me , and you will
COFFEY: I ca n't afford slack , Brigman .
FINLER: Hey , you know your hand is blue ?
BUD: Shut up and get your gear on .
HIPPY: How deep ?
MONK: Deep . It 's classified you know . Anyway , you eathe liquid , so you ca n't be compressed . Pressure does n't get to you . Catfish is grappling with the concept .
CATFISH: You 're saying you get liquid in your lungs ?
MONK: Oxygenated fluorocarbon emulsion .
HIPPY: Hey !
MONK: Check this out .
LINDSEY: Com-check , everybody . Flatbed , you on line ?
ONE NIGHT: Ten-four , Lindsey , read you loud and clear .
LINDSEY: Cab Three ?
HIPPY: Cab Three , check . Right behind you .
LINDSEY: Going over the wall . Coming to bearing 065 . Everybody stay tight and in sight .
BUD: Okay so far .
JAMMER: How deep 's the drop-off here ?
COFFEY: Knock off the chatter . Cab One , you getting anything ?
COFFEY: Cab One , radiation readings ?
LINDSEY: Neutron counter 's not showing very much .
COFFEY: Wilhite , anything ?
WILHITE: Negative . Nominal .
COFFEY: Just continue forward along the hull .
LINDSEY: Copy that , continuing forward . You just want me to get shots of everything , right ?
COFFEY: Roger , document as much as you can , but keep moving . We 're on a tight timeline .
LINDSEY: Copy that .
HIPPY: Roger , I see it .
COFFEY: Right .
ONE NIGHT: How do you want me ?
COFFEY: Just hold above it . Alright , A team .
HIPPY: Perry , stand by on the ROV .
MONK: It 's flooded . Alright , I 'm opening her up .
LINDSEY: How many are there ?
SCHOENICK: Your MIRV is a tactical nuke , 50 kilotons nominal yield . Say times time Hiroshima .
MONK: Alright . Let 's get in there .
COFFEY: We 'll go in through that large breach .
BUD: Let 's go , guys .
COFFEY: It 's jammed . Give me a hand .
BUD: How you guys doing ?
SONNY: I 'm alright , I 'm dealing .
BUD: We 're here now . Let 's get her done .
BUD: Okay , Cat , Lew , Sonny . You guys stay on this deck . Hook you line onto mine . Any problem , you tug my line . Two pulls . Jammer , you 're with me .
JAMMER: Where are we ?
JAMMER: Lord Almighty .
BUD: Hey , you okay ?
BUD: I 'm taking you back out .
JAMMER: Yeah , okay . Okay .
BUD: Jammer ? Answer me , buddy , JAMMER ? !
CATFISH: It 's his mixture ! Too much oxygen !
BUD: SHIT , it 's stuck goddamnit !
SONNY: You got it ? ! You got it ?
BUD: Yeah , yeah yeah . It 's turning . Jammer 's convulsion ends . He goes limp .
LINDSEY: Copy you , Bud . On my way .
BUD: Whattya think ?
MONK: I 'm a medic , which is mostly about patching
COFFEY: Negative . But there was definitely a Russian ogey . The Brigman woman saw it .
DEMARCO: CINCLANTFLT 's gon na go apeshit . Two Russian
COFFEY: Yes I mean no . Negative , sir .
BUD: Did you get anything on the cameras . Video o anything ?
LINDSEY: No . Look , forget it . I do n't want to talk about it .
BUD: Fine . Be that way .
LINDSEY: No .
BUD: Whose then ? Lindsey ? Talk to me
LINDSEY: Jammer saw something in there , something that scared the hell out him
BUD: His mixture got screwed up . He panicked and pranged his regulator .
LINDSEY: But what did he see that made him panic ?
BUD: What do you think he saw ?
LINDSEY: I do n't know . I DO N'T KNOW !
HIPPY: Hey , you guys hurry up , check this out ! They 're announcing it .
CATFISH: Quiet ! Quiet !
HIPPY: Turn it up , bozo .
ANCHORMAN: the Kremlin continues to deny Russian involvement in the sinking of the Trident su
HIPPY: Hey that 's us !
CATFISH: SSSSHHH !
FINLER: BOOOOH ! We want names !
SONNY: Hey , hey ! There 's the Explorer .
TYLER: there is a tremendous amount of activity .
ANCHORMAN: How would you describe the mood there ?
HIPPY: This sucks .
BUD: What 's the matter with you ?
LINDSEY: Figured that out for yourself , did you ?
HIPPY: We got Russian subs creeping around . Shit ! Something goes wrong they could say anything
BUD: Hippy , just relax . You 're making the women nervous .
LINDSEY: Cute , Virgil .
HIPPY: No , I mean it . Those SEALs are n't telling us diddly . Something 's going on .
BUD: Hippy , you think everything 's a conspiracy .
HIPPY: Everything is .
BUD: Unbelievable .
MCBRIDE: We 're trying to get unhooked and get out of here and your boys go sightseeing !
DEMARCO: They 'll be back in two hours .
MCBRIDE: Two hours ? ! We 're gon na be getting the shit
NEWS ANCHOR: Soviet military spokesmen have claimed that
LINDSEY: Bud , this is big time .
BUD: It 's on every channel .
CONSTRUCTION WORKER: Hey , they do n't want war any more than we do . You think about it , you say hey , they love their kids too . So why are we doing this ?
COFFEY: Do n't touch that . Just step away . Now !
HIPPY: Excusez moi .
BUD: Coffey , we 're a little pressed for time .
COFFEY: Monk , Schoenick secure the package .
BUD: This ai n't no drill , slick . Make me proud .
ONE NIGHT: Piece of cake , baby . He swings the hatch closed with a CLANG .
BENDIX: We 're losing number two thruster . Bearing 's going .
BUD: Topside , topside pay out some slack , we 're getting dragged !
LINDSEY: We 're heading right for the drop off !
MCBRIDE: Bud ! We 've lost the crane !
LINDSEY: Got it ! It 's dropping straight to us .
BUD: Rig for impact ! Seal all exterior hatches . Move it ! Let 's go !
LINDSEY: Oh shit .
BUD: Heeyy ! ! HHHEEEYYY ! !
BUD: Forget it , Sonny . They 're gone .
COFFEY: No .
BUD: What 's the scoop , ace ?
LINDSEY: I can get power to this module and sub-bay if
BUD: Need some help ?
LINDSEY: Thanks . No , I can handle it . Bud there
BUD: What about O-2 ?
BUD: The storm 's gon na last longer than 12 hours .
BUD: Hey , Lins I 'm glad your here .
LINDSEY: Yeah ? Well I 'm not .
BUD: Where 're you ?
HIPPY: Quarters . Level two .
HIPPY: Do we just leave him there ?
BUD: Yeah , for now . Our first priority 's to get something to breathe .
CATFISH: You watch yourself .
ONE NIGHT: Does n't mean you had to marry her .
BUD: We were due to go back out on the same ship . Six months of tests . If you were married you got a state-room . Otherwise it was bunks .
ONE NIGHT: Okay , good reason . Then what ?
BUD: Well , you know Lindsey , too damn aggressive Son of a ! !
HIPPY: Hey , Lindsey , you reading me ? Over .
LINDSEY: Yeah , Hippy , I read you . What 's the matter ?
BUD: Lins , how 're you doing ? Lindsey ?
LINDSEY: Catfish I got a problem here . You there ? Catfish ? Behind her , SOMETHING rises from the depths .
CATFISH: Missed what ?
BUD: Nice shot , Lins .
SONNY: What is that ? You drop your dive light ?
LINDSEY: Come on , you guys look , this is the little one right here . You can see how it 's kind of zigging around .
BUD: If you say so . It could be anything .
CATFISH: Y'all could be more specific .
LINDSEY: Not us . Not human . Get it ? Something non- human , but intelligent
HIPPY: You mean like Coffey ?
LINDSEY: A non-terrestrial intelligence .
HIPPY: Non-Terrestrial Intelligence . NTIs . Yeah , I like that better then UFOs . Although that works too Underwater Flying Objects .
CATFISH: Are we talkin ' little space friend here ?
LINDSEY: Hippy , do me a favor stay off my side .
BUD: Lindsey , will you step into my office for a minute
LINDSEY: Bud , something really important is happening here .
BUD: Look . I 'm just trying to hold this situation
LINDSEY: Who 's hysterical ? Nobody 's hysterical !
BUD: No .
LINDSEY: Bud , this is me , Lindsey . Okay ? You know me
BUD: I ca n't , Lindsey . I 'm sorry . How can I ?
COFFEY: I want 'round-the-clock manning of the sona
COFFEY: Why have n't you finished repairs on the hydrophone transmitter yet ?
ONE NIGHT: I was having my nails done .
BUD: 'Fish ' ?
CATFISH: Yuh ?
BUD: Take the first watch in sonar . Hippy , you
ONE NIGHT: Gim me a couple of hours .
HIPPY: Come on move to the left just a little more come on , A.J . Squared Away that 's it
BUD: Why bring it here ?
BUD: Lindsey ! Wait a second
LINDSEY: You 've got some huevos bringing this thing into my rig ! With everything that 's een going on up in the world , you bring a
COFFEY: You do n't need to know the details of this mission you 're better off if you do n't .
LINDSEY: You 're right I do n't . I just need to know that this thing is out of here ! You hear me , Roger Ramjet ?
BUD: Emergency ! Maintenance room B . Emergency !
LINDSEY: You dumb jarhead motherf
BUD: Chill out , Lindsey ! !
CATFISH: What 's the problem ?
BUD: Nothing . We were just leaving . Were n't we ?
BUD: Lins , stay away from that guy . I mean it .
HIPPY: Yeah . The dude 's in bad shape you see his hands ?
LINDSEY: He 's got the shakes ?
BUD: Look , the guy 's operating on his own , cut off
HIPPY: Man , I give this a sphincter-factor of about nine point five .
LINDSEY: Look , you can just punch into his little chip where you want him to go , and he goes , right ?
HIPPY: Well , yeah , but the tether off it ai n't gon na e fancy . When he gets down there he 'll just
LINDSEY: Let 's go for it . We could get lucky .
MONK: Thanks .
LINDSEY: Virgil , turn on your side .
BUD: I think it likes you .
LINDSEY: It 's trying to communicate .
BUD: You done impressing yourself , ace ?
ONE NIGHT: No way that could just be seawater .
HIPPY: That thing was probably their version of Big Geek like an ROV .
CATFISH: Just checking is out , huh ? How come ?
SONNY: Hope they do n't judge the whole race offa us .
CATFISH: Maybe I oughta shave .
COFFEY: It went straight for the warhead . And they think it 's cute .
SCHOENICK: You need to get some sleep .
ONE NIGHT: You think they 're from down there originally ? Or from you know . She jerks her thumb toward the ceiling .
LINDSEY: I think they 're from 'you know ' . Some place that has similar conditions cold , intense pressure . No light .
COFFEY: Sniff something did you , rat boy ?
LINDSEY: Oh my God Oh no Please , you ca n't . Coffey , think about what you 're doing for God 's sake
SCHOENICK: GET BACK !
COFFEY: This is something I 've wanted to do since I first met you .
HIPPY: You boss is having a full-on meltdown . Guy 's fixing to pull the pin on fifty kilotons and we 're all ringside !
MONK: What 's the timer set for ?
SCHOENICK: Three hours .
COFFEY: Shut up ! Do n't talk !
LINDSEY: Schoenick your Lieutenant is about to make a real bad career move
HIPPY: That guy 's crazier ' n a shithouse rat !
BUD: We have to stop him ! Schoenick ! !
MONK: I 'm the least of your problems .
BUD: Thanks . How you feeling , big guy ?
JAMMER: Figured I was dead , there , when I seen that angel comin ' toward me . They all look at him for a second . What ?
BUD: Uh , okay , right . You can tell us about it later . Let 's go .
LINDSEY: Now what ?
BUD: Okay , I 'm gon na free-swim to hatch six get
LINDSEY: Bud , that water 's only a couple degrees above freezing .
BUD: Then I guess you better wish me luck , huh ? Catfish is pulling his boots off as well .
CATFISH: Wish us luck . 'Case I do n't die . Okay , Bud let 's go , podner , I ai n't got all day .
BUD: Hafta go on to the moonpool . Only way .
CATFISH: I ca n't make it podner .
BUD: Okay , Cat . You head back .
MONK: I tool the liberty of removing this before I gave it back to him .
CATFISH: Hey !
BUD: Get the door !
CATFISH: SHOOT !
HIPPY: SHIT !
CATFISH: Give me that ! !
LINDSEY: Forget that go for Big Geek !
BUD: Gim me a hand !
ONE NIGHT: I 'll unhook . GO ! You 're better in these than I am .
LINDSEY: You owe me one , Virgil .
BUD: Can we negotiate later ? There 's Big Geek .
LINDSEY: You did okay , back there . I was fairly impressed .
LINDSEY: Not in this thing . Lindsey is flipping switches . Nothing works .
BUD: You totaled it , huh ?
LINDSEY: Yeah . So sue me .
BUD: It 's flooding like a son of the bitch .
LINDSEY: You noticed .
BUD: Try again .
BUD: Wonderful . There 's some light from somewhere
LINDSEY: Over there . It 's the rig .
BUD: Good hundred yards , I 'd say .
LINDSEY: They 'll come out after us .
LINDSEY: You see where it 's coming in ?
BUD: Somewhere behind this panel . Hold this .
LINDSEY: I do n't know , look around .
LINDSEY: Calm down , Bud .
BUD: Okay okay . We got ta get you out of here .
LINDSEY: How ?
BUD: I do n't know how !
LINDSEY: We 've only got one suit .
BUD: I know ! I know ! But we better come up with something .
LINDSEY: Aaargh ! ! I 'm freezing !
LINDSEY: What , you growing gills all of a sudden ? You got it on , keep it on .
BUD: Do n't argue , goddamnit , just
LINDSEY: No way ! Forget it . Not an option .
BUD: Lindsey , just put the thing on and shut up
LINDSEY: NO ! ! Now be logical , Bud , you 're
BUD: FUCK LOGIC ! !
BUD: What 's the plan ?
LINDSEY: I drown , you tow me back to the rig
BUD: It is insane .
LINDSEY: It 's the only way , Bud . Now trust me .
BUD: Jesus , I do n't believe this is happening .
LINDSEY: Tell me later .
BUD: NOOOOO ! ! !
ONE NIGHT: It 's Bud . Oh my God that 's Lindsey ! BUD Deepcore , Deepcore , do you read ?
HIPPY: Read you , Bud . We 're here .
SONNY: Here he comes !
BUD: Turn her over !
CATFISH: Here , here , here no , you got to have bare skin , or it wo n't
BUD: All right . Do it !
CATFISH: Bud , it 's over , man . It 's over .
BUD: No ! NO ! She 's not her heart is strong ,
LINDSEY: Hey big boys do n't cry , remember ?
BUD: Hi , lady .
LINDSEY: Hi , tough guy . I guess it worked , huh ?
LINDSEY: I 've been better . Next time it 's your turn , okay ? Bud 's expression turn inexplicably grim .
BUD: Well , you got that right .
LINDSEY: No , Bud , no not you .
BUD: Who then ?
MONK: The fluid prevents your larynx from making sound . It 'll feel a little strange . BUD Warning you now , folks , I 'm a lousy typist . The moment of truth , huh ?
BUD: Okay . Let 's rock and roll .
MONK: Relax now , Bud . Just keep breathing as it
LINDSEY: Can you hear me okay ? Try your keypad .
MONK: 4800 feet . It 's official .
HIPPY: One mile down and still grinnin ' .
LINDSEY: 8500 feet , Bud . Everything okay ?
MONK: Ask him a pressure effects . Tremors , vision problems , euphoria .
LINDSEY: Ensign Monk want to know how you feel . ON THE SCREEN , printing out COLD .
MONK: It 's starting . It hits the nervous system first .
ONE NIGHT: Keep talking , Lindsey . Just let him hear you voice . It does n't matter what about .
ONE NIGHT: Bottom 's still a mile and a half down .
LINDSEY: Shut up , Hippy . Bud , how you doing ? He types SE LUMINUS THINNGS Everyone snaps suddenly alert .
HIPPY: Uh , oh
LINDSEY: What kind of luminous things , Bud ?
CATFISH: Maybe it 's you know them .
LINDSEY: Bud , it 's the pressure . Try to concentrate .
ONE NIGHT: Signal 's fading .
ONE NIGHT: Little Geek just folded .
HIPPY: Bye , little buddy .
MONK: He can still make it .
LINDSEY: Bud ? You hangin ' in there ? Talk to me , Bud . Are you okay ?
MONK: He 's hallucinating badly .
LINDSEY: Would we see the flash ?
MONK: Through three miles of water ? I do n't know .
CATFISH: Quiet , quiet ! Save you air , goddamnit .
MONK: Bud , give me a reading off you liquid oxygen gauge .
HIPPY: It took him over an hour to get down there
LINDSEY: No ! You can make it ! You hear me ? Drop you
BUD: Howdy , Uuuh how you guys doin ' ?
REPORTER: a Caltech scientist who is among those eporting an unprecedented disturbance in the world 's oceans . Dr. Breg , can you give us a clearer explanation then we 're getting ?
BUD: You 're doing it ! Right ? That 's what you 're telling me . Yeah , you can control water that 's your technology . But why ?
BUD: Why ? You could 've done it . Why did n't you ?
MCBRIDE: Well , it 's strange it just kind 've blew
MCBRIDE: They figure is was over a half mile high .
ONE NIGHT: I wish I could have seen it
MONK: That 's impossible .
LINDSEY: No it 's not .
CATFISH: I 'd say that 's a big 10-4 , jack .
MCBRIDE: Looks like you boys might by out of business .
BENDIX: Something 's going on down there . I 'm getting some big readings .
ONE NIGHT: Whew ! Whatever this is , it 's major .
BENDIX: Active is pinging back something big it 's enormous ! Coming up right under us .
DEMARCO: Where ?
BENDIX: Where ? EVERYWHERE ! ! Over there ! Port bow .
LINDSEY: We should be dead . We did n't decompress .
HIPPY: They must 've done something to us .
LINDSEY: Oh , yes . I think you could say that .
BUD: Hello , Mrs. Brigman . Their lips meet .
PET DETECTIVE: Written by Jack Bernstein Tom Shadyac Jim Carrey p > EXT . STREET - DAY
BRITISH NARRATOR: As natural selection works solely by and for the good of each being , all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to progress towards perfection .
BRITISH NARRATOR: It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank , clothed with many plants of many kinds , with birds singing
RUSSELL: Laroche is asleep at the wheel .
RANDY: Crazy White Man is now Drowsy White Man . They share a stoned laugh .
ORLEAN: Two years ago I went to Florida to meet Laroche after reading a small article about a white man and three Seminole men arrested with rare orchids they 'd stolen out of a place called the
TONY: We got a Seminole , or Seminoles , in the swamp . I 'm on Janes Scenic Drive just east of Logging Road Twelve . I repeat , Indians in the swamp . Tony waits for a response . Nothing . TONY Indians in the swamp .
RADIO VOICE: I do n't know what you want me to say .
TONY: Barry , Indians do not go on swamp walks . If there are Indians in the swamp , they are in there for a reason .
VALERIE: We think you 're just great .
KAUFMAN: Oh , thank you .
VALERIE: And we 're thrilled you 're interested .
KAUFMAN: Oh , thanks , wow . That 's nice to hear .
VALERIE: You have a really unique voice .
KAUFMAN: Well , thanks . That 's I appreciate that .
VALERIE: Very talented . Really .
KAUFMAN: Thanks . Thank you . Thanks .
VALERIE: So
KAUFMAN: Sort of hot in here .
VALERIE: Yeah , it is a bit . So , why do n't you tell me your thoughts on this crazy little project of ours .
KAUFMAN: First , I think it 's a great book .
VALERIE: Laroche is a fun character , is n't he ?
KAUFMAN: And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating . Plus her musings on Florida , orchid poaching . Indians . Great , sprawling New Yorker stuff . I 'd want to remain true to that , let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven .
VALERIE: Okay , great , great . I guess I 'm not exactly sure what that means .
KAUFMAN: Oh . Well I 'm not sure exactly yet either . So y'know , it 's
VALERIE: Oh . Okay . Great . So , um , what
KAUFMAN: It 's just , I do n't want to compromise by making it a Hollywood product . An orchid heist movie . Or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running . Y'know ?
VALERIE: Oh , of course . We agree . Definitely .
KAUFMAN: Or cramming in sex , or car chases , o guns . Or characters learning profound life lessons . Or characters growing o characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end . Y'know ? Movie shit .
VALERIE: See , we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of
KAUFMAN: Alienated journalist writes about passionate backwoods guy and he teaches her to love . I mean , it did n't happen , it would n't happen . It 's Hollywood .
MARGARET: Well , thanks again . It 's all so stupid .
KAUFMAN: I think it 's great . Your photo in the trades and everything . Pretty cool .
MARGARET: Anyway . Yeah . So what 's up with you ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm considering jobs . Mostly crap . There 's one you might like , about flowers .
MARGARET: Flowers ? Really ? What is it ?
KAUFMAN: They want me to do an adaptation of a ook called The Orchid Thief .
MARGARET: Oh my God ! You 're kidding ? I read that ! I loved that book !
KAUFMAN: I loved the book .
MARGARET: Oh , Charlie , orchids are the most amazing flowers . So complex .
KAUFMAN: I know . They 're really great .
MARGARET: You should take this job . Does n't it sound exciting , to immerse yourself in a eal subject and learn everything about it ? Blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower . And after you learn all this stuff , you can teach me !
KAUFMAN: That 'd be fun .
MARGARET: God , they 're such beautiful flowers . And so sexy . Y'know ? Did you know that orchid means
KAUFMAN: Testicle . I just read that .
MARGARET: Testicle ! Can you believe it !
LAROCHE: Pseudemys floridana . Did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the ack of a turtle ? Not you fellas specifically . Although , maybe you fellas specifically . That I ca n't speak to .
KAUFMAN: plus I love the idea of learning all about orchids . I really admire those guys who know everything about ants o fungus or whatever . I 'd like to be more like that . See , I tend to write self- involved , self-loathing even masturbatory stuff .
VALERIE: And it 's wonderful , by the way .
KAUFMAN: Thanks . That 's nice to hear . But I need to challenge myself as a writer . I 've arrived at an age where I want to think about the world in a different way .
VALERIE: Adapting someone else 's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently .
KAUFMAN: Yes . And I welcome the challenge of taking a small subject , like orchids , something that would never draw people into a theater and making that fascinating . I want to show people heaven in a wildflower . As Blake wrote .
BOY: Any one at all , ma ?
MOTHER: A wonderful choice ! And spiritually significant ! Did you know that Native Americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle ?
BOY: Cool ! I ca n't wait to tell the guys .
MARGARET: To a fucking awesome assignment , man .
KAUFMAN: Hey , I 'm going to an orchid show Sunday ? For research ? Maybe you 'll come ?
MARGARET: Absolutely . I think David , this guy I 'm seeing , would enjoy it , too . He 's a real naturalist . Okay if he comes along ?
KAUFMAN: Yeah , of course . Sure .
MARGARET: He wants to meet you anyway . All I do is tell him how great you are .
KAUFMAN: Oh , thanks . That 's nice to hear .
MARGARET: You 'll like him . He 's so honest and smart . It 's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this fucking business , y'know ?
KAUFMAN: Yeah . That 's great . He sounds great .
MARGARET: Like the other day we were in bed discussing Hegel . Hegel ! In bed ! It was fucking amazing . Have you read much ?
KAUFMAN: Y'know , a long time ago . A bit . Y'know .
MARGARET: Well , anyway , David and I were discussing his Philosophy of History and I was The entrees arrive . MARGARET struck by his notion that history is a human construct
KAUFMAN: Yeah .
MARGARET: that nature does n't exist historically , but rather cyclically .
RADIO VOICE: How 's that Injun round-up going , Tony ?
TONY: Fuck you , Barry , you fuckin '
LAROCHE: Yes , sir , you absolutely may .
TONY: Okay , I 'm asking then .
LAROCHE: Oh , Okay then ! Let 's see Five kinds of bromeliad , one peperomia , nine orchid varieties . About a hundred and thirty plants all told , which my colleagues have removed from the swamp .
TONY: You 're aware that it 's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land ?
LAROCHE: And do n't forget these plants are all endangered , sir . Every one of them .
TONY: Exactly . Well , that 's exactly the issue . This is a state preserve .
LAROCHE: Yes , sir , it is . Oh , and my colleagues are all Seminole Indians . Did I mention that ? You 're familiar , I 'm sure , with the State of Florida v. James E. Billie . Tony nods , even though he has no idea . LAROCHE So you know that even though Seminole Chief Billie killed a Florida panther , one of , what , forty in the entire world ?
TONY: But
LAROCHE: Not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute Seminoles for poaching palm fronds , which , I believe , they use to thatch the oofs of their traditional chickee huts .
RUSSELL: He 's right . That 's exactly what we use them for . Chickee huts . Tony looks at the Indians .
RANDY: Yeah .
VINSON: Yeah .
RUSSELL: Yeah .
TONY: Yeah , but I do n't I ca n't let you fellas go yet . Just hold on while I Hey , Barry , can I get some help ? Barry ?
ORLEAN: Nothing in Florida seems hard o permanent . The developed places are just little clearings in the jungle , but the jungle is unstoppably fertile , everything is always growing or expanding . At the same time , the wilderness disappears efore your eyes . Orlean gets quiet . Her eyes tear .
DONALD: Did you open your present from mom yet ?
KAUFMAN: What 's with you ?
DONALD: My back .
KAUFMAN: A job is a plan . Is your plan a job ?
DONALD: I 'm gon na be a screenwriter ! Like you ! Kaufman does n't respond , enters his bedroom . DONALD I know you think this is just one of my get-rich-quick schemes . But I 'm doing it ight this time . I 'm taking a seminar !
KAUFMAN: Screenwriting seminars are bullshit .
DONALD: I 'm sorry , I forgot . Charles , this guy knows screenwriting . People from all over come to study his method . I 'll pay you back , man . As soon as I sell
KAUFMAN: Let me explain something to you .
DONALD: Yeah , okay .
KAUFMAN: Anybody who says he 's got `` the answer '' is going to attract desperate people . Be it in the world of religion
DONALD: I just need to lie down while you explain this to me . Sorry . I apologize . Okay , go ahead . Sorry . Okay . Go .
KAUFMAN: There are no rules to follow , Donald , and anybody who says there are , is just
DONALD: Not rules , principles . McKee writes `` A rule says , you must do it this way . A principle says , this works and has through all remembered time . ''
KAUFMAN: The script I 'm starting , it 's about flowers . No one 's ever done a movie about flowers before . So , there 're no guidelines , and that 's good because
DONALD: What about Flowers for Algernon ?
KAUFMAN: That 's not about flowers . And it 's not a movie .
DONALD: Oh , okay , I never saw it . Go ahead .
KAUFMAN: My point is , those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new . And a writer should always have that goal . Writing is a journey into the unknown . It 's not building a model airplane .
DONALD: McKee is a former Fulbright scholar . Are you a former Fulbright scholar , Charles ?
BOY: Turtles are of the order Testudine !
MOTHER: Really ? Testudine ?
BOY: Yeah . And they 're found on every continent ! Except Antarptica !
MOTHER: Antarctica . Every continent , huh ?
BOY: Uh-huh . The turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years ! And there 's all different kinds , Pelusio gabonensis , Phyrnops rufipes , Chitra indica , Dermochelys coriacea coriacea
LAROCHE: and what we have here , my friend , is thirteen Encyclia Cochleata fou Encyclia Tampensis
MIKE OWEN: I 'm sorry , Encyclia what ?
LAROCHE: Coch-le-ata . Tem-pen-sis . Okay , let 's see , twenty-two Epidendrum Nocturnum . A very good haul . Two Catopsi Floribunda . Three Polyrrhiza Lindenii , the ghost orchid . What I eally came for . These sweeties grow nowhere in the U.S. except in your swamp .
MIKE OWEN: That true ? Boy , you really know you plants , Mr. Laroche .
LAROCHE: Yeah . I do . I 'm one of the world 's foremost experts . But that 'll all be evealed at the hearing .
KAUFMAN: Maybe you should watch what you eat , Donald . Did you ever consider maybe you 're a bit fat ? Does it ever occur to you , you kind of represent me in the world ? That people look at you and think , he 's Charlie 's twin , therefore that 's what Charlie must look like ?
DONALD: By the way , mom 's paying for the seminar .
KAUFMAN: Did you even hear what I said ?
DONALD: Yeah . Anyway . I pitched mom my screenplay
KAUFMAN: Jesus , do n't say `` pitch . ''
DONALD: Sorry . Anyway , she loved my telling of my story to her . She said it 's like `` Silence of the Lambs '' meets `` Psycho . ''
KAUFMAN: Hey , maybe you and mom could collaborate . I hear she 's really good with structure .
DONALD: You think you 're so superior , Charles . Well , I 'm really gon na write this . And you 'll see . And , and you suck , okay ?
ORLEAN: Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation , a hybrid of unruliness and orderliness , nature and artifice .
LERNER: Finally , Mr. Laroche , what is you experience in the area of horticulture ?
LAROCHE: Okay , I 've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years . I 've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane . I 'm a professional plant lecturer . I 've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants . I 'm a published author , both in magazine and book form . I have extensive experience with orchids , and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures . This is laboratory work , not at all like you nursery work . I 'm probably the smartest person I know .
LERNER: Thank you .
LAROCHE: You 're very welcome .
KAUFMAN: What ? !
DONALD: Look , you wan na hear my pitch , or what ?
KAUFMAN: Go away . God damn it .
DONALD: Y'know , I 'm just trying to do something .
KAUFMAN: It 's a little obvious , do n't you think ?
DONALD: Okay , but there 's a twist . See , we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder . Okay ? See , he 's eally also the cop and the girl . All of them . It 's all him ! Is n't that crazy ?
KAUFMAN: Look , the only idea more overused than serial killers , is multiple personality . On top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person . See every cop movie ever made for other examples of this .
DONALD: Mom called it psychologically taut .
KAUFMAN: The other thing is , there 's no way to write this . Did you consider that ? I mean , how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage ?
DONALD: Trick photography ?
KAUFMAN: Okay , that 's not what I 'm asking . What I 'm asking is in the reality of this movie , if there 's only one character , ight ? Okay ? How could you What exactly would the scene How
LAROCHE: They 're gon na fucking crucify me .
BAXLEY: I 'll go into the Fakahatchee with a chainsaw . I swear to God .
LERNER: Buster , for crying out loud , I reminded her the Indians used to own Fakahatchee . Look , we 'll deal with all this at trial .
ORLEAN: Mr. Laroche ? Orlean smiles , apologetic for the intrusion .
LAROCHE: I 'm familiar with the New Yorker . The New Yorker , yes , the New Yorker . Right ?
ORLEAN: Right . So I was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here .
LAROCHE: Yeah ? Put this in I do n't care what goes on here . I 'm right , and I 'll take this all the way to the Supreme Court . That judge can screw herself .
ALICE: So what looks good today ?
KAUFMAN: Um . Hi . Thank you . The key lime pie , please . A small slice . I 'm watching my And a coffee , please . Skim milk .
ALICE: Orchids ! I absolutely love orchids . He goes blank .
KAUFMAN: Yes . They 're really great .
ALICE: So , I 'll be right back with your pie .
ORLEAN: A few days after the hearing , Laroche took me to an orchid show in Miami . She opens the passenger door . ORLEAN Hi . Thanks for picking
LAROCHE: I want you to know this van is a piece of shit . When I hit the jackpot , I 'll buy myself an awesome car , maybe an Aurora .
ORLEAN: Why the ghost orchid ?
LAROCHE: The sucker 's rare . Collectors covet what is not available . I 'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it .
DONALD: Cool .
KAUFMAN: What do you want , Donald ?
DONALD: Nothing . I just read about that Swamp Ape that supposedly lives in the swamp ? Like bigfoot ? You should put that in your script , like , killing people o something . That 'd be very , very cool .
KAUFMAN: Why are you in here now ?
DONALD: Nothing , I was just Oh , one thing , I need a cool way to kill people . Do n't worry ! For my script ! Ha ha !
KAUFMAN: Um , okay , killer 's a literature professo who cuts off little chunks of his victims ' bodies until they die . He 'd be known in the tabloids as `` The Deconstructionist . ''
DONALD: That 's kinda good . I like that .
KAUFMAN: See , I was kidding , Donald .
DONALD: Oh , okay . Sorry . You got me ! Heh-heh . Do you mind if I use it , though ?
MOTHER: For certain is death for the born/And certain is birth for the dead/Therefore over the inevitable/Thou shouldst not grieve . Sweet , sweet Diane .
BOY: Mom , there 's something I feel I have to do . I do n't know how to do this , but I feel in my stomach that I have to .
MOTHER: What do you have to do , honey ?
BOY: Collect one of every turtle in the world . It 's a long list , ma . Cuora galbinifrons , Graptemys versa , Callagu orneoensis , all the Galapagos species , people think there 's only one , but that 's hardly the case . Cycloderma frenatum , Cuora pani I do n't think my life is worth living if I ca n't do this . The boy and his mother look at each other .
MOTHER: Well , we 'd better get started , huh , baby ? The boy nods his head solemnly .
ORLEAN: Wow , that 's some story . So how many turtles did you end up collecting ?
LAROCHE: Oh , I lost interest right after that .
ORLEAN: Oh .
LAROCHE: I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils . Learned everything about them . Collected the shit out of 'em . Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world . Y'know ?
ORLEAN: Okay , now what is lap
LAROCHE: Ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors . Did that with my mom for a while . We had the largest collection of 19th Century Dutch mirrors on the planet . Perhaps you read about us . Mirror World October '88 ? I have a copy somewhere Laroche fishes through junk as he drives .
ORLEAN: So , did you ever miss the turtles ? The only thing that made you ten year old life worth living ?
LAROCHE: I 'll tell you a story . I once fell deeply , profoundly in love with tropical fish . I had sixty goddamn fish tanks in my house . I 'd skin-dive to find just the ight ones . Anisotremus virginicus , Holacanthus ciliaris , Chaetodon capistratus . You name it . Then one day I say , fuck fish . I renounce fish .
ORLEAN: But why ?
LAROCHE: Done with fish .
THERAPIST: So
KAUFMAN: I 'm still obsessed with that girl .
THERAPIST: The Burger King girl ? Dimples and sparkly eyes ?
KAUFMAN: California Pizza Kitchen .
THERAPIST: Oh . Red hair and nice ? Likes orchids ?
KAUFMAN: Yeah . She 's really nice . I feel pretty certain she likes me maybe .
THERAPIST: So do you think you 'll talk to this one ?
KAUFMAN: Hi !
ALICE: Hey ! Some key lime pie for ya today ?
KAUFMAN: Okay , yeah ! That sounds great ! Yeah !
ALICE: I 'll pick you out an extra large piece . Preferred customer . She winks at him . He 's so in love .
KAUFMAN: Thank you . That 's really sweet of you .
ALICE: Still reading about orchids , I hope .
KAUFMAN: Yes , I am , in fact ! Beautiful flowers .
ALICE: A friend of mine has a pretty little pink one , grows right on a tree branch .
KAUFMAN: That 's what 's called an epiphyte .
ALICE: Right ! Boy , you know your stuff , huh ?
KAUFMAN: Not really . I 'm just learning . Epiphytes grow on trees , but they 're not parasites . They get all thei nourishment from the air and rain .
ALICE: Well , I 'm impressed . That 's great . Awkward pause .
KAUFMAN: There are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world .
ALICE: Wow , that 's a lot , huh ? Okay , then , so I 'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert .
KAUFMAN: But , so , anyway , I was also wondering Alice turns back , still smiling . KAUFMAN I 'm going up to this orchid show on Saturday in Santa Barbara and I
ALICE: Oh , um , well
KAUFMAN: I 'm sorry . I apologize . I 'm sorry .
ALICE: So I 'll be right back with your pie then .
ORLEAN: There are more than thirty thousand known orchid species . One species looks like a German shepherd
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Encyclia tempensis . The butterfly .
MOTHER: `` You will find something more in woods than in books . Trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters . '' Saint Bernard said that .
TEENAGED LAROCHE: That 's pretty , ma .
MOTHER: Diane would 've loved this flower , Johnny .
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Maybe somehow she can see it . Y'know ?
MOTHER: So after this one how many , honey ?
TEENAGED LAROCHE: Only one hundred and seventeen more .
MOTHER: And you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in Florida ?
TEENAGED LAROCHE: I have to , ma . You know that . She smiles at him , rubs his neck .
KAUFMAN: I 'm successful , right ? I mean , I could say to a woman , I 'm a screenwriter and she 'd look at me differently . I could get laid . But I want someone to like me . For me . Y'know ? The way I like them . The way I 'd do anything for that woman walking down the street . A million women walking down the street . I do n't need to know what their jobs are . No one will ever love me like that . Like I love almost every woman I see .
LAROCHE: Once you get the sickness , it takes ove your life . I started out just photographing 'em . Now look at me . It 'll happen to you . You 'll see .
ORLEAN: I do n't think so . I 'm not prone to Laroche runs over to a flower .
LAROCHE: Angraecum sesquipedale ! Beauty ! God ! Darwin wrote about this one . Charles Darwin ? Evolution guy ? Hello ?
ORLEAN: I know who Darwin is .
KAUFMAN: Okay , opening of movie . Four billion years ago . Life has not begun . Endless , arren terrain . Silence . Silence .
LAROCHE: See that nectary all the way down there ? Darwin hypothesized a moth with a nose twelve inches long to pollinate it . Everyone thought he was a loon . Then , sure enough , they found this moth with a twelve inch proboscis proboscis means nose , by the way and
ORLEAN: I know what proboscis means .
LAROCHE: Every one of these flowers has a specific elationship with the insect that pollinates it . There 's an orchid that looks exactly like this particula insect . So the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen . Thusly Laroche mimes humping .
ORLEAN: I get it .
LAROCHE: That 's called pseudo-copulation . These flowers are smart ! You got ta fall in love with them . Once you learn anything about orchids , you 'll devote your life to learning everything about them .
ORLEAN: I wanted to want something as much as people wanted these plants but it is n't part of my constitution .
DONALD: McKee is a genius ! And hilarious ! He just comes up with these great jokes , and everyone laughs ! But he 's serious , too . You 'd love him . He 's all fo originality , just like you ! But he says , we have to realize we all write in a genre , so we must find originality within that genre . See , it turns out there has n't been a new genre since Fellini invented the mockumentary !
KAUFMAN: You and I share the same DNA . Is there anything more lonely than that ?
HUSBAND: You want to do something tonight ?
ORLEAN: I should work . I 've got stuff
LAROCHE: Asclepiadaceae . From thirty yards . Yes .
LAROCHE: People started coming out of the woodwork , to ask me stuff , to admire my plants , to admire me .
CUSTOMER #1: John , what is this ? It 's so beautiful .
LAROCHE: Catasetum tenebrosum . From Peru . It 's neat 'cause its dimorphic , which means
CUSTOMER #2: Johnny baby !
LAROCHE: Henry ! Look at that Dracula vampira ! It 's gorgeous , man . Other customers gather around .
CUSTOMER #2: Take me in to the Fakahatchee . Show me a ghost in bloom , and it 's yours .
LAROCHE: Cool .
CUSTOMER #3: Mr. Laroche , would you be able to
LAROCHE: Bromeliad Tree . Hey , Dora ! Good , good . Well , sure , you got ta watch the temperature . Do n't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five . Uh-huh , that should e fine . Yeah , damp it down . Oh , I 'm doing well . She 's fine , too . Sure
LAROCHE: I believe some folks 'd call me up to talk and just talk because they were lonely .
KAUFMAN: I do n't know how to adapt this . I should 've just stuck with my own stuff . I do n't know why I thought I could
JERRY: See her ? I fucked her up the ass .
KAUFMAN: It 's about flowers .
JERRY: It 's not only about flowers . It 's got that crazy plant nut guy . He 's funny , ight ?
KAUFMAN: `` There is not nearly enough of him to fill a book , '' blah blah blah , so Orlean `` digresses in long passes '' blah blah blah `` no narrative really unites these passages . '' Blah blah blah blah blah .
JERRY: Oh man . I 'd fuck her up the ass .
KAUFMAN: There 's no story . The book has no story .
JERRY: So make one up . The book 's a jumping off point . No one in town can make up a crazy story like you . You 're the king .
KAUFMAN: I did n't want to do that this time . It 's someone else 's material . I have a esponsibility Anyway , I wanted to grow as a writer , do something profound and simple . Show people how amazing flowers are .
JERRY: Are they amazing ?
KAUFMAN: I do n't know . I think they are .
JERRY: Look , what I tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model . I always thought this one could be like Apocalypse Now . The journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy what 's his name ?
KAUFMAN: John Laroche .
JERRY: She has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious `` Laroche . ''
KAUFMAN: I need you to get me out of this .
JERRY: Charlie , at the end of the day , I think it would be a terrible career move .
LAROCHE: The nursery was going well , but sometimes ad things happen . Darkness descends .
LAROCHE: Sure you do n't want to come , dad ? His father does n't respond .
UNCLE JIM: Nursery business good , Johnny ?
LAROCHE: Everything 's good , Uncle Jim . This last year 's been a dream , I 'm telling you . We 're finally pulling out of this debt .
MOTHER: Amen , honey . Praise Allah , Buddha , Vishnu . And all the rest of 'em .
LAROCHE: She divorced me soon after she regained consciousness . Then the hurricane destroyed my greenhouse . Everything . I knew it would break my heart to start another nursery , so when the Seminoles wanted a white guy , an expert , to get their nursery going , I took it .
KAUFMAN: see , Laroche researched it and found that Indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands .
WOMAN: What an amazing opening ! So then it 's a courtroom drama . A Few Good Men ! And all those Indian rights issues are so complex . There are valid arguments on oth sides . I mean we took their land ! We gave them smallpox !
KAUFMAN: Well , actually , there was n't much of a trial . Florida got 'em on a technicality , about cutting down non- endangered trees . Even the Indians are n't allowed to do that . They all plead no contest . Laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the Fakahatchee for six months .
WOMAN: Oh , wow . So , like , then what happens ?
KAUFMAN: Nothing much . That 's what I like . I mean , most people 's lives do n't include a lot of drama and I wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to ig , um Y'know what I mean ?
WOMAN: Absolutely . I absolutely do .
KAUFMAN: It 's , like , Blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower . Y'know ? Or like Hegel ?
KAUFMAN: It 's good . It 's complicated what I 'm trying to do , but it 's going very well .
ORLEAN: Hello , John ? It 's Susan .
KAUFMAN: Travelling into the Fakahatchee , Donald , is a perfect metaphor for writing . I 'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown . I 'm taking the big risk here .
KAUFMAN: It 's dark , dangerous , as dense as steel wool . I do n't know if I 'll come out alive , but if I do , I 'll have something true to give the world . That 's the difference between writing and aping some moron 's `` principles . ''
DONALD: Hey , Charles , I 'm thinking of putting a song in . Y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around . I thought it might be a nice way to break the tension . So , try to think of a song about split personality
ORLEAN: You would have to want something very adly
KAUFMAN: Hey ! How was Denver ?
STEWARDESS: Oh , God , sweetie , I 'm so glad to be home . She kisses him , looks lovingly at him . STEWARDESS Can I get you something to drink ?
ORLEAN: The swamp 's darkness and denseness can attle your nerves . A sailor on a pluma- collecting expedition wrote in his diary
MIKE OWEN: Charlie ? It 's Kaufman standing there .
KAUFMAN: Yes . Hi .
MIKE OWEN: So the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old . Five to six thousand years old . About that . Five or six .
KAUFMAN: Okay .
MIKE OWEN: Now the Fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands , probably in the world . I do n't know of any cypress strand bigger . It 's about twenty miles long , or nineteen , nineteen to twenty , nineteen and right here it 's about five miles wide , four and a half , five . So , again , it 's twenty miles long , three to five miles wide . And over here
KAUFMAN: Why is n't it wet ? Orlean wrote about wading through black , corrosive water . She said it was the scariest experience of her life . And when I spoke to you on the phone , you said wear heavy boots , long pants and
MIKE OWEN: There 's usually water . We 've been going through a bit of a drought . Say , have you seen that movie , Medicine Man ? That 's a good movie about protecting nature . It shows there could be something important in a rain forest we do n't even know about , like a cure fo cancer .
KAUFMAN: It 's not even hot . I was expecting it to e awful . Sun beating down , wading through water , looking out for snakes , wild hogs . I was thinking it would be dramatic . Alligators . Something !
MIKE OWEN: The alligators are over by the lakes . The temperature 's a blessing for us . This time of year can get uncomfortably hot . Green anole . Florida 's most common .
MIKE OWEN: What Laroche did was wrong . Those flowers belong to all of us , all 250 million of us 250 ? I think it 's up to 270 now And belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us . Nobody has a right to take them . Not me , not you , not John Laroche , not
KAUFMAN: Listen , um , Susan Orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a Swamp Ape . Have you ever heard stories or
MIKE OWEN: Tourist garbage ! I do n't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating . Is n't nature amazing enough ?
KAUFMAN: I just asked because she mentioned it .
ORLEAN: That night I called Laroche .
ORLEAN: Thank you . Thanks very much .
VALERIE: We 're big fans .
ORLEAN: Oh , thank you .
VALERIE: And Laroche is such a fun character .
ORLEAN: Yeah , John 's a character all right .
VALERIE: It 's funny and fresh . And sad in a way .
ORLEAN: Well , thanks . Thank you .
VALERIE: So we were wondering , what 's next ?
ORLEAN: Oh , um , Random House wants me to expand it into a book . So I 'll be doing that .
VALERIE: And there 'll be more of Laroche ?
ORLEAN: Yeah . More John , more orchids .
VALERIE: Y'know , we 'd really like to option it .
ORLEAN: You want to make this into a movie ?
VALERIE: Laroche is such a fun character . So
LAROCHE: No shit I 'm a fun character . Who 's gon na play me ?
ORLEAN: I 've got to write it first . Someone 's got ta write the screenplay . Most things never get made . It 's premature to
LAROCHE: I think I should play me .
BAXLEY: John .
LAROCHE: I was trying to order some pink string eans from Argentina .
BAXLEY: No kidding .
LAROCHE: I figure just because Project Ghost Orchid is dead , we 're not closing shop .
BAXLEY: Listen , John
LAROCHE: We 'll get into plant multiplication . Buy little ones , turn 'em into big ones , sell 'em at a profit . Simple plant multiplication for the masses .
BAXLEY: John , we 're thinking maybe now 's a good time for you to take a few weeks .
LAROCHE: I do n't need a vacation , Buster .
BAXLEY: It 's a good time . Things are slow .
LAROCHE: Y'know , the guys on my crew here , all they do is smoke weed all day . I been meaning to talk to you about that . So if it 's a question of productivity
ORLEAN: John , it 's Susan . Orlean . So , I was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more .
LAROCHE: I 'm no longer interested in orchids . I 'm pursuing other avenues . I apologize fo any inconvenience this might cause you .
KAUFMAN: California .
KAUFMAN: No . Not really .
KAUFMAN: Right .
DRIVER: Mr. Kaufman , do you mind if I ask what type of work you do for Sony ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm a writer .
DRIVER: A song writer ?
KAUFMAN: No , I 'm a screenwriter .
DRIVER: Oh , wow ! Good for you . You mind if I ask what your movie 's about ?
KAUFMAN: It 's about flowers .
DRIVER: I heard about that ! Drug flowers , right ?
KAUFMAN: Yeah . That 's it .
DRIVER: I heard about that ! That 's great ! Action-adventure is my favorite genre .
DONALD: How was Florida , man ?
KAUFMAN: Okay .
DONALD: Cool ! Hey , my script 's going amazing ! Right now I 'm working out an Image System . Bob calls it an invaluable asset . Because of my multiple personality theme , I 've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist 's fragmented self . Bo teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic emotion .
KAUFMAN: You sound like you 're in a cult . Kaufman disappears upstairs .
DONALD: No , it 's just good writing technique .
DONALD: You should n't have done that .
KAUFMAN: There is no Swamp Ape . It was invented for people who ca n't find the actual world fascinating . Y'know ?
DONALD: Oh , okay . I did n't know that . Sorry . Hey , I got a song ! `` Happy Together . '' I was worried about putting a song in a thriller , but Bob says , Casablanca , the greatest screenplay ever written , did exactly that . Mixed genres .
KAUFMAN: I need to go to bed , Donald . I have n't slept in a week .
DONALD: Okay . Donald remains on the floor .
KAUFMAN: Damn it .
ORLEAN PHOTO: I like looking at you , too . Charlie .
KAUFMAN: I do n't know how to do this . I 'm afraid I 'll disappoint you . You 've written a eautiful book . I ca n't sleep . I 'm losing my hair . I 'm fat and repulsive
ORLEAN PHOTO: Shhh . You 're not . Whittle it down , focus on one thing in the story , find the thing you care passionately about and write about that .
KAUFMAN: We see Susan Orlean , delicate , fragile , eautiful , haunted by loneliness , typing at her desk . She looks at the camera and talks to us `` John Laroche is a tall guy , skinny as a stick , pale-eyed , slouch- shouldered '' Donald enters in his underwear , pours coffee .
DONALD: Morning .
KAUFMAN: Hey , hey .
DONALD: You seem chipper .
KAUFMAN: I 'm good . I have some new ideas .
DONALD: Cool . Me too . I 'm putting in a chase sequence now . The killer flees on horseback with the girl . The cop is after them on a motorcycle . It 's like a attle between motors and horses .
KAUFMAN: They 're all still one person , right ?
DONALD: Yeah , hey , that 's the big pay-off .
KAUFMAN: Well , it sounds exciting .
DONALD: Thanks , man . Thanks .
ORLEAN: I suppose what I 'd been doing in Florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing thei sighs on one single desire . Now I was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a trace .
ORLEAN: If you really loved something , would n't a little of it always linger ? She turns to the camera .
KAUFMAN: I 'm so thrilled I get to adapt your book , get to merge my thoughts with yours . I love that . It 's intimate , like a marriage .
ORLEAN: Not like a marriage .
KAUFMAN: Maybe what marriage could be . Her eyes tear up . She kisses him .
ORLEAN: Is n't it ironic ? You adapting my book ? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion esulted in my finding it with you .
KAUFMAN: and in the final sequence Susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard . From high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions . This symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl 's psyche , how she ecame afraid to ever really love something because it would go away .
KAUFMAN: Oh . Good .
KAUFMAN: You can sit here and pretend to be a writer , mocking the seriousness of what I do , like some kind of fucking funhouse mirror version of me ! But let me tell you , you do n't know what writing is ! Kaufman grabs his stomach , doubles over .
JERRY: we need to talk about the orchid script . Valerie called yesterday . They 're getting antsy .
KAUFMAN: I think I 've got it on track now .
JERRY: Good . She said you sounded weird .
KAUFMAN: No Hollywood bullshit . Just raw truth . Sometimes that takes a while to find .
JERRY: Okay . What 's the time frame here ?
KAUFMAN: It 's goddamned honest , Jerry . It 's true .
JERRY: Oh , hey , my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing . It 's a girl taking a shit , but a trout comes out . You got e- mail yet ? I 'll send it to you .
KAUFMAN: This is more honest than anything anyone 's ever done before in a movie , I 'll tell you that . The only truth we can offer is the truth that 's our own experience of the world . `` The great poet , in writing himself , writes his time . '' T.S . Eliot .
JERRY: It sounds good , buddy . But we do need to give Valerie a ballpark
KAUFMAN: I 'm sick of their constant harassment !
MOTES: You 've been checking out the displays ?
ORLEAN: Yeah .
MOTES: It 's the Miami centennial , we 're supposed to illustrate something about Florida history .
ORLEAN: Right . Now Laroche is part of Florida history . As a mannequin .
MOTES: It 's a world of words to the end of it./In which nothing solid is its solid self . You 'll have to forgive me , I 'm a eformed poetry professor . Orlean is moved by the quote .
ORLEAN: Who is that ?
MOTES: Wallace Stevens .
ORLEAN: John , it 's Susan .
KAUFMAN: What ? ! What do you want ?
DONALD: I finished . My script . I 'm done .
KAUFMAN: Ourobouros .
DONALD: I do n't know what that means .
KAUFMAN: The snake is called Ourobouros .
DONALD: I do n't think so . But it 's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi . Because at the end when he forces the woman , who 's really just him , to eat herself , he 's also eating himself to death .
KAUFMAN: I 'm insane . I 'm Ourobouros .
DONALD: I do n't know what that is .
KAUFMAN: I 've written myself into my screenplay . It 's eating itself . I 'm eating myself .
DONALD: Oh . That 's kinda weird .
KAUFMAN: It 's self-indulgent . It 's narcissistic . It 's solipsistic . It 's pathetic . I 'm pathetic . I 'm fat and pathetic .
DONALD: I 'm sure you had a good reason , Charles . You 're an artist .
KAUFMAN: The reason is I 'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book . Because I 'm pathetic . Because I have no idea how to write . Because I ca n't make flowers fascinating . Because I suck .
DONALD: Hey , am I in the script , too ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm going to New York . I 'll meet her . That 's it . That 's what I have to do .
DONALD: Do n't get mad at me for saying this , Charles , but Bob 's got a seminar in New York this weekend . So if you 're stuck Kaufman shoots Donald a look .
ORLEAN: Where are our supplies ?
LAROCHE: Got everything I need right here .
ORLEAN: He made it sound like a Bible story , the hopeful journey through darkness into light . I never thought many people in the world were like John , but I was ealizing more and more that Laroche was an extreme , not an aberration most people in some way or another do strive for something exceptional , something to pursue , even at their peril , rather than abide an ordinary life .
LAROCHE: Here we go . Encyclia tempensis . Laroche lights a cigarette .
ORLEAN: Cute .
LAROCHE: Clamshell orchid . You know that .
ORLEAN: Uh-huh .
LAROCHE: See , I found you two already . I 'll show you every orchid you want today . I 'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me . Rigid Epidendrum . That 's an ugly-ass orchid . But I 'm no snob . I 'm interested in all orchids . Not just pretty ones .
ORLEAN: Thanks . Could I get some lemon please ?
LAROCHE: We 're not lost .
LAROCHE: We 're not lost . Laroche takes out a cigarette , lights it . LAROCHE I 'm just turned around a little .
ORLEAN: Not really .
LAROCHE: Well , y'know it 's not really about collecting the thing , it 's about
ORLEAN: The sundial is n't working . Laroche looks down at it .
LAROCHE: It is so working .
ORLEAN: So , John
LAROCHE: Okay , fuck the sundial . We 'll just go straight and eventually we 'll get there . They rise . LAROCHE What I mean is we 'll get somewhere . Out of here . I mean , logically , we have to get out as long as we walk straight .
KAUFMAN: Hello ?
KAUFMAN: Jerry , I got ta go . I have an appointment . I got ta go .
LAROCHE: I 've done this a million times . Wheneve everything 's killing me , I just say to myself , screw it , and go straight ahead . Laroche leads Orlean back into the brush .
REGISTRAR: May I help you ?
MCKEE: Years from now you 'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole , an opinionated arrogant asshole , for you art .
KAUFMAN: You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes , but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens , where people do n't change , they do n't have any epiphanies . They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved . More a reflection of the real world
MCKEE: The real world ? The real fucking world ? First of all , if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis , you 'll bore your audience to tears . Secondly Nothing happens in the real world ? Are you out of your fucking mind ? People are murdered every day ! There 's genocide and war and corruption ! Every fucking day somewhere in the world somebody sacrifices his life to save someone else ! Every fucking day someone somewhere makes a conscious decision to destroy someone else ! People find love ! People lose it , for Christ 's sake ! A child watches he mother beaten to death on the steps of a church ! Someone goes hungry ! Somebody else betrays his best friend for a woman ! If you ca n't find that stuff in life , then you , my friend , do n't know much about life ! And why the fuck are you taking up my precious two hours with you movie ? I do n't have any use for it ! I do n't have any bloody use for it !
KAUFMAN: Okay , thanks .
MCKEE: Yes ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm the guy you yelled at this morning .
MCKEE: I need more .
KAUFMAN: I was the one who thought things did n't happen in life .
MCKEE: Oh , right , okay . Nice to see you .
KAUFMAN: I need to talk .
MCKEE: I make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students . It would n't be fair to the others .
KAUFMAN: Mr. McKee , please . My even standing here is very scary . I do n't meet people well . I 'm self-conscious and timid . But what you said this morning shook me to the one . What you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices . It 's about my choices as a human being . Please .
MCKEE: I could use a drink , my friend .
KAUFMAN: We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road . Kaufman closes the book . There 's a pause .
MCKEE: Then what happens ?
KAUFMAN: That 's the book . I wanted to present it simply , without big character arcs o sensationalizing the story . I wanted to show flowers as God 's miracles . I wanted to show that Orlean never saw the looming ghost orchid . It 's about disappointment .
MCKEE: I see . That 's not a movie . You must go ack and put in the drama .
KAUFMAN: I 've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches . I 'm way past my deadline . I ca n't go back .
MCKEE: Ah , the everpresent deadline . Yes , I was doing a Kojak once and it was hell . McKee sips his beer , eyes Kaufman . MCKEE Tell you a secret . The last act makes the film . You can have an uninvolving , tedious movie , but wow them at the end , and you 've got a hit . Find an ending . Use what you 've learned this weekend . Give them that and you 'll be fine . Tears form in Kaufman 's eyes .
KAUFMAN: You promise ?
MCKEE: You 've taken my course before ?
KAUFMAN: My brother did . My twin brother Donald . He 's the one who got me to come .
MCKEE: Twin screenwriters . Julius and Philip Epstein , who wrote Casablanca were twins .
KAUFMAN: You mentioned that in class .
MCKEE: The finest screenplay ever written .
KAUFMAN: Donald .
KAUFMAN: I was n't any help .
DONALD: Script kind of makes fun of me , huh ?
KAUFMAN: Sorry . I was trying something . I
DONALD: Hey , I do n't mind . It 's funny .
KAUFMAN: Okay . So , what would you do ?
DONALD: You and me are so different , Charles . We 're different talents .
KAUFMAN: I know . Just for fun . How would the great Donald end this script ?
DONALD: The great Donald . Well , I mean do you need the whole court case ?
KAUFMAN: Uh , it 's what happened to Laroche . It 's kind of important .
DONALD: It 's boring . No offense . A courtroom scene should be dramatic . Stick the uling in a line of dialogue , maybe .
KAUFMAN: Um . Okay .
DONALD: Too much about orchids . Get rid of it . Pare that stuff down to a minimum . Frankly , I 'd focus more on the elationship between the brothers . I think that 's the gold here . No one cares about orchids .
KAUFMAN: The book 's about orchids .
DONALD: That 's a problem . But do n't let it ruin the movie . I mean , for example , use the orchids in a more dramatic way . Have some kind of bang-up , crazy action sequence in the swamp . Use the swamp etter . It 's a tremendous fictional world . A setting of great dramatic possibility .
KAUFMAN: That 's true . But
DONALD: And put some twists in . Reveal some surprising thing about Laroche . God , what am I doing giving suggestions to you ? I mean you 're like a seasoned professional . You 're an artist .
KAUFMAN: C'mon , you 're the `` mill-five '' kid .
DONALD: Shut up ! I love the Laroche porno web-site stuff . Is that real ? Maybe make a bigger deal of that . I do n't know .
KAUFMAN: I think it 's real . I have n't actually seen the site .
DONALD: It 's sex , man ! Incorporate it .
KAUFMAN: Jesus , Donald .
DONALD: What ? She 's kinda cute . You do n't like her ? I dunno , I think she 's okay . It 's not like I 'm marrying her .
KAUFMAN: Jesus . Jesus !
DONALD: I think this is maybe a good thing fo the script . Go ask her about this .
KAUFMAN: I 'm not gon na ask her about this .
DONALD: You want me to ? I do n't mind .
KAUFMAN: No , I do n't want you to .
DONALD: I could easily pretend I 'm you .
KAUFMAN: No ! No !
ORLEAN: So you 'll pick me up ? Yeah , tomorrow .
KAUFMAN: What was she wearing ?
DONALD: I do n't know . Like a dress maybe .
KAUFMAN: Did she look at me ? At you ?
DONALD: Finally ! Da-da-da-daaaaah ! S. Orlean , TWA flight 651 . Arriving Miami 10 20 tomorrow morning .
KAUFMAN: I do n't want to do this , Donald .
DONALD: We 'll go together . It 'll be good .
KAUFMAN: It 's so weird to actually see that van in eal life .
DONALD: So you want to build the symbolic charge of the story 's imagery from the particular to the universal . Okay ?
KAUFMAN: Okay , but when you 're creating an image system , how do you know
DONALD: I 'll get a closer look . You wait here .
KAUFMAN: No , I want to go . I should go . I mean , it should be me , right ? I mean
DONALD: Go for it , bro . You the man .
KAUFMAN: Holy
ORLEAN: Do n't stop , Johnny .
LAROCHE: Who the hell are you ?
KAUFMAN: I just nobody , I just
LAROCHE: Who the fuck are you ?
KAUFMAN: Um . I 'm just . I was at the wrong house . I 'm looking for the Johnson family .
LAROCHE: I got your Johnson family right here .
ORLEAN: Honey , come back to bed .
LAROCHE: Who the hell sent you ? Rudy ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm not
LAROCHE: What the fuck does that mean ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm the guy adapting her book . Her book about you . This registers with Laroche .
LAROCHE: Jesus Fucking Christ . Why the fuck were you in my backyard ?
KAUFMAN: I was , um , trying I do n't know . Orlean is unforgiving .
ORLEAN: Who 's the bloody fat guy ?
LAROCHE: This is the fellow adapting your book fo the movies , darling ' .
ORLEAN: Really ? I wanted to meet Oh . What does he know ?
KAUFMAN: I do n't know anything . I swear .
LAROCHE: He knows about the greenhouse . We ca n't have this appear on the silve screen .
KAUFMAN: It wo n't . I do n't even under
ORLEAN: Johnny , I 'm so tired now .
LAROCHE: He needs to be gotten rid of .
KAUFMAN: What ? !
LAROCHE: Small article in newspaper .
ORLEAN: Johnny , come lie on top of me .
LAROCHE: Focus , darling ' . Is this credible ?
ORLEAN: Um , oh this screenwriter was killed doing research in Jamaica a few years ago . Screenwriter , you have a car ?
KAUFMAN: I , um , no , I Laroche gets ready to kick him again . KAUFMAN A rental , a rental .
ORLEAN: We drive his car there , leave it on the side of the swamp . That works .
LAROCHE: Good . I like that .
ORLEAN: Sorry .
KAUFMAN: Please . Donald disappears from the window .
ORLEAN: Huh .
KAUFMAN: Look , I do n't care what you two are you doing . Please do n't kill me .
ORLEAN: Hey , here 's one of my lines . `` Is n't it ironic ? You adapting my book ? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion esulted in my finding it with you . ''
KAUFMAN: I was trying to do something .
ORLEAN: Well , it 's kind of pathetic , dontcha think ?
KAUFMAN: You can laugh , but I did n't make that line up . That 's a quote from your book .
ORLEAN: Yeah , I know , Charlie-boy . Chill . I 'm laughing at who I used to be . It 's sad .
KAUFMAN: So now you learned about passion . From Weirdo Laroche . Bully for you .
ORLEAN: You ca n't learn about passion . You can e passion . And it was n't John who made me passion . It was orchids .
KAUFMAN: I thought you did n't even like orchids .
ORLEAN: I lied about what happened at the end of the book . On the way out of the swamp
LAROCHE: The jewel of the Fakahatchee .
ORLEAN: I still do n't get it . I mean , there it is . I can see it 's pretty , but
LAROCHE: You 'll get it .
ORLEAN: The first time I tried it , the split second it took effect , I understood orchids . I loved them with a passion I 'd never felt for anything . For anyone .
KAUFMAN: You 're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses
ORLEAN: With this powder I am passionate about everything .
LAROCHE: This spot looks good . Now how do we do this ? Hit him in the head with a rock first ? Keeping in mind we can only hit him once and only with as much force as would be created by him slipping and falling onto the rock .
ORLEAN: Holy Jesus . Holy Hey , baby , hey
LAROCHE: Should we drown him , then hit him on the head ? Uh-uh . A body bleeds different if the heart 's stopped . These new forensic guys are very smart . We really have to know our corpses to stand a chance rigo mortis , lividity , putrefecation , ocula changes .
KAUFMAN: I do n't write this kind of bullshit .
LAROCHE: Do n't get all huffy , I was simply
ORLEAN: Yeah , let 's , baby .
LAROCHE: Not now . We got to kill that guy . And now I guess that other guy as well .
ORLEAN: Ohhh .
KAUFMAN: For Christ 's sake , why did n't you do something while we were in the car ?
DONALD: My back had seized . I could n't move .
KAUFMAN: Shit !
DONALD: We 've got ta ditch this thing .
KAUFMAN: It 's a rental ! It 's a rental !
DONALD: Now !
ORLEAN: That 's beautiful ! What 's that , Johnny ? What 's that one called ? I just so want to fuck that flower , do n't you ?
LAROCHE: Asclepias lanceolata . Red milkweed . Extremely fuckable . But we do n't have time .
ORLEAN: Um , y'know Charlie or something .
LAROCHE: Charlie ! Listen , let 's talk ! This pie is big enough for four people ! Why are there two of him ? Orlean shrugs .
ORLEAN: Identical twigs ? Did I say twigs ? I meant twins .
LAROCHE: Cladium jamaicense , guys . Sawgrass . You want to watch out for that . That 's some evil shit . Cut you up .
KAUFMAN: Fuck you , Laroche !
LAROCHE: Just tryin ' to be helpful . Walk with us and I 'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls . I know these swamps forwards and backwards . There 's alligators and poisonous snakes , fellas . Wild hogs .
DONALD: Wait . Do you hear something ?
KAUFMAN: Donald , that sounds bad .
KAUFMAN: Watch out , watch out , watch out !
DONALD: I think we 're okay .
KAUFMAN: Fuck ! Fuck , Donald , we 're dead .
DONALD: We 're okay . How 's your leg ?
KAUFMAN: I do n't know . How 's your back .
DONALD: It 's fine . My back is fine .
KAUFMAN: Donald !
DONALD: No . But do n't let them get you , too . You got a fucking awesome third act .
KAUFMAN: Donald , this is an awful , bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it , but I 'm sorry I did n't get to know you etter . I 'm so sorry . I 'm so sorry .
DONALD: It 's really You 've been really nice .
KAUFMAN: See , it 's just I thought I knew you already . I thought you were me . And I hated me .
DONALD: Well , do n't do that anymore . Okay ?
KAUFMAN: Okay .
MIKE OWEN: Jesus , that writer guy .
ORLEAN: Water sounds so sparkly . Like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silve trampoline ! Dontcha think ?
LAROCHE: Darlin ' , please .
ORLEAN: Can we fuck now , baby ? Fuck like lemons ?
KAUFMAN: You got ta help me . You got ta help me .
MIKE OWEN: What the hell is going on here ?
KAUFMAN: They 're after me . They 've got guns . They killed my brother .
MIKE OWEN: Who 's got guns ? What are you
ORLEAN: Hey , it 's the screenwriter !
KAUFMAN: There 's a thing back there ! You do n't want to be here .
LAROCHE: You 're right , I do n't want to be here . I 'm tired , let 's get this over with .
ORLEAN: I love your gun , baby . Can we trade ?
LAROCHE: Stand back , sweetness .
ORLEAN: Where 'd Johnny go ?
ORLEAN: Oh , Johnny .
KAUFMAN: I 'd just stare at your picture , and you looked so sweet . I read your words and I thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me . And the way you wrote about Laroche . You said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth
ORLEAN: Oh , Johnny . Johnny 's teeth . Oh
KAUFMAN: I figured you could look at me and see something , even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something , you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one I write day in and day out in my head . Would it be ?
ORLEAN: You 're really so wonderful .
KAUFMAN: Really ?
ORLEAN: So wonderful . I can see inside you soul . It glows with orange sadness . It 's raining inside you . I want to run through your dripply dripples . It 's so eautiful . I love you . I do .
KAUFMAN: It 's the drugs . Orlean stands and walks toward Kaufman .
ORLEAN: No , it 's me . It 's the real me . Look at you . I just want to hold you and Oh , crap , it 's wearing off . Crap !
KAUFMAN: Okay , bye .
ORLEAN: I ca n't let you go , fatty . I ca n't let you make this public . Kaufman keeps walking . ORLEAN You hear me ? You pathetic , fat , bald You do n't even know how to write ! You 're not even You 're not leaving here ! I need a fix ! Everything 's so ugly !
KAUFMAN: Donald !
DONALD: My brother is not fat . He 's not bald . My brother is a great writer ! He was trying to do something important !
KAUFMAN: That 's Mike Owen . John Laroche . Susan Orlean . I do n't know what that is . I think it might be a Swamp Ape . And that 's Donald , my twin brother . He saved my life .
POLICE OFFICER: You two really look alike .
KAUFMAN: Yeah . Yes , we do .
ALICE: Oh , I love McKee ! Oh , hi . Have n't seen you in a while .
KAUFMAN: Hi . Yeah , I 've been away .
ALICE: So you studying screenwriting ?
KAUFMAN: I 'm actually finishing one up .
ALICE: Good for you ! Me too . God , it 's so hard to get in , huh ? Everyone and thei other is writing a screenplay .
KAUFMAN: Yeah . Actually I 'm writing this one fo Sony Pictures .
ALICE: Really ? Wow . Really ? That 's so cool .
KAUFMAN: That 's tough . Let 's see about being yourself , maybe . It 's about learning that if you ca n't love yourself , you ca n't really love anyone .
ALICE: That 's true . God , that 's so true . It 's such an important message , y'know ?
KAUFMAN: See , my twin brother was murdered ecently
ALICE: Oh God ! I 'm sorry . That 's so horrible .
KAUFMAN: Thanks . Like part of me ripped away . Forever . It was a wake up call .
ALICE: I 'm so sorry . You poor man .
KAUFMAN: Anyway , it helped put things in perspective . Life is a miracle . All life , from the flower to the human being . You . Me . And I want to show people that . For my brother . For everyone .
ALICE: Listen , do you mind if I sit for a sec ?
KAUFMAN: But you 're working .
ALICE: It 's a stupid job , y'know . I 'm Alice .
KAUFMAN: Charlie .
ALICE: I like that name . Charlie . I 've always eally liked that name . Charlie .
BLUE BLAZER: Congressman Norris- ?
CHARLIE: Just wait 'till you see how they espond to him..
DAVID: Do n't build me up like that , Charlie . He 'll be disappointed .
TESTING HIMSELF: Karen Woods , founder . Husband Bob .
MORE TESTING: Abagail `` Abby '' Best , Stuart Broxterman , Chapel Davis , Milan Sabovic , Jim Vargas
CHARLIE: What the hell ? What happened to `` I 'm going to have softie tea , rest my voice , and go to bed early ? '' You have Diane Sawyer tomorrow and you have to be up at four AM for us to make it in time .
DAVID: I had some tea . ( sees Charlie 's not in the
MOOD: Come on , man . We 're eight points up in the polls . I 've got ta cut loose every once in a while and have a life .
CHARLIE: Ten .
DAVID: What ?
CHARLIE: Latest poll has you ten points up . A slow smile spreads across David 's face .
NATURAL OPTIMIST: Better than I thought , I thought we 'd get killed in Seneca .
CHARLIE: Eddie , call Boyd ! Where the hell are the . Suffolk numbers ? We 've got to get the Suffolk numbers !
PUNDIT #1: Congressman Norris has a reputation for being very direct , even blunt , in his campaign speeches , which is great until you say too many things you wish you had n't . Then you start to look like an amateur .
PUNDIT #2: That 's bad for any candidate but it 's fatal if you 're running fo Senate at the age of 33 , you opponent keeps calling you an `` impulsive kid , '' and you almost killed your entire political caree five months ago with an act of immaturity that ended up on the front page of ` .the New York Post .
AIDE: Suffolk County Numbers !
CHARLIE: I really thought we 'd win Suffolk .
SENIOR AIDE: Kings County just came in too .
DAVID: Well , it 's over . And it 's going to e a blowout
SENIOR AIDE: NBC has us up next .
BRIAN WILLIAMS: Turning now to the New York Senate ace , NBC is now calling the election for Roger'Lynfield . Afte a shockingly poor showing in both Suffolk county and in his home county , Kings , it now appears that David Norris will lose this election badly , perhaps by as much as 10 points .
RICHARDSON: This is a.bignight , gentleman .
TOHARRY: Is ever ything set ? Harry nods . Richardson notices his eyes
RICHARDSON: You look tired . You should take a vacation when we finish with this . You 'll have earned it .
HARRY: I 'm not sure the kind of tired I feel would be fixed by a vacation .
RICHARDSON: Sure it would . Everybody needs a vacation . Even us .
TO CHARLIE: I 'm going to take a walk , figure out my speech .
ASSISTANT MANAGER: Good evening , Congressman . You 're in the Grand Ballroom if that 's what you 're looking for .
DAVID: Actually just looking for a place to be alone for a minute before I head in there .
ASSISTANT MANAGER: None of the banquet rooms on the third floor are in use tonight .
DAVID: Thank you .
WOMAN: Hi . I hope I did n't startle you .
DAVID: What are you doing in here ?
WOMAN: Hiding from security .
DAVID: Oh . What did you do ?
WOMAN: Crashed a wedding . One floor up .
DAVID: It 's almost midnight . They'just caught on now ?
WOMAN: Ivana Trump finally realized I was n't her niece . I think afte the fifth ; glass of champagne my Czech accent started slipping . spite of David 's state that gets a grin .
DAVID: Are you for real ?
WOMAN: Life is short .
DAVID: Hard to argue with that .
WOMAN: You 're that guy running for Senate are n't you ?
DAVID: I 'm `` that guy . ''
WOMAN: You winning ?
DAVID: No .
WOMAN: Too bad . The other guy 's a tool .
LAUGHS: Maybe I should have made that clearer in my ads .
WOMAN: Personally , I think mooning you friends at a college reunion is no ig deal .
BEAT: And I do n't think the Post should have printed the photo .
WOMAN: At least not full page . He ca n't help but crack up .
DAVID: You were n't running , for Senate at the time .
WOMAN: Do you still have a chance or is it over ?
DAVID: He crushed me .
WOMAN: You must I do n't know what you must be feeling
DAVID: Winning would feel better . But losing has its advantages .
WOMAN: Like what ?
DAVID: The only time a politician is alone is when he 's asleep.. .or in the athroom . After eight years in politics that gets kind of hard to take .
WOMAN: Watching you , you 'd never know it .
DAVID: Thank you
WOMAN: Well , everything happens for a eason , right ? Even losing . God , I 'm really rollrng out the platitudes tonight , are n't I ?
DAVID: It 's the champagne . Brines out the Hallmark in people .
WOMAN: After it kills their Czech accents .
DAVID: Why not ? I have to think up some good platitudes for my speech . He takes a gulp of champagne .
WOMAN: Why the hell would you do that ?
DAVID: Apparently , even if I had n't been caught dropping my drawers in the middle of a senate campaign I would have lost the election anyway ecause I 'm too blunt .
WOMAN: Says who ?
DAVID: The TV pundits .
WOMAN: Fuck 'em . They just wish they had the balls to be candidates themselves . She hands him the champagne bottle again .
BEAT: You going to run again ?
DRINKS: Tonight 's probably not the night to ask .
DAVID: `` Field . '' `` Lynfield . '' A beat . She shrugs .
CHARLIE: David ?
SUDDENLY EMBARRASSED: I better go .
DAVID: Wait .
HOTEL SECURITY: There ! They rush toward her .
WOMAN: Got ta go . Do n't let the bastards grind you down .
CHARLIE: What the hell was that ?
DAVID: I 'm really not sure . David has a huge grin on his face .
BEAT: Do n't worry , I 'm not going to moon you .
DAVID: But I am But I am going to get backup . I wanted to come out here tonight and give you a victory speech , a speech I 've dreamed of giving foremost of my life . But life does n't always deal you the cards you want . The audience sobered now . Reflective .
RICHARDSON: He spills his coffee when he steps out of Starbucks . The moment he comes through the door .
HARRY: Got it .
RICHARDSON: Our models indicate between 7 00 and 7 05 am .
RICHARD SON: You planned that vacation , right ?
HARRY: Two weeks .
CNBC ANCHOR: He served four terms in the House The blackberry rings .
'RAYNOR: The blackberry rings again . It 's very loud .
CNBC ANCHOR: . his . electrifying concession speech led commentators to
DAVID: Hello ?
CHARLIE: Ca n't . He 's going to ask you about joining the firm . My compliance guys say all firm business has to e done on the blackberry .
DAVID: Really ?
CHARLIE: Sarbanes-Oxley . You voted for it , pal . In fact , you cosponsored it .
DAVID: Sir , there 's someone
BUS DRIVER: There 's another M1 right behind me .
HARRY: No
DAVID: No way
CONSCIOUS: I think . we `` ve met .
DEADPAN: You need a better line than that o I 'll have to assume you 're a pervert who likes to stare at girls ' legs while- , they sleep .
DAVID: Your skirt was so short I could n't help it .
WOMAN: Dress .
DAVID: Skirt , dress , same thing .
WOMAN: If you 're a pervert , yeah . All that matters is they both show leg .
DAVID: So do shorts , dear .
WOMAN: Yeah , but there 's that pesky piece of fabric right here that interferes with your fantasy life .
DAVID: I have one but , unlike you , I would n't say it in public .
WOMAN: Pussy .
DAVID: Hello ? Hello ?
TO WOMAN: The line cut .
WOMAN: That ringer get any-louder or do you pretty much have it maxed out ?
DAVID: You 're relentless .
WOMAN: I never sleep through the night . I catch up on the bus .
BEAT: You going to run again ?
DAVID: I just started a new job , today .
SERIOUS NOW: I saw your concession speech . I heard Bill Clinton called it the est political speech he 's seen in 20 years . David looks back at her .
DAVID: Something got into me . He means her . They stare at each other .
WOMAN: What 's the deal with you and boring shades of blue ?
DAVID: At least my clothes match .
WOMAN: That 's easy if you . restrict yourself to one color .
DAVID: The belt and shoes are black .
WOMAN: Variety is the spice of .life .
DAVID: There you ` go with the platitudes again . I guess it was n't the ch mpagne . His blackberry goes again . RING-RING .
WOMAN: Your phone sucks . Do n't guys like you get special phones that actually work in the middle of the iggest city in the country ?
DAVID: Depends what the telecom lobby thinks of your voting record .
HARRY: Now .
DAVID: Oh , Jesus
FIGHTING LAUGHTER: I 'm sorry .
HARRY: Shit !
DAVID: I 'll pay for the damage .
WOMAN: Hope your new job pays better than your old one .
DAVID: Give me your number and I 'll send you a check .
WOMAN: God , that is smooth . Spill coffee on me then ask for my number .
DAVID: It 's my first day at the office !
WOMAN: Tell your boss some crazy chick dumped coffee on you on the MI . It 's New York ; he 'll understand . She thrusts the cup back at him-
DAVID: No !
ACTUALLY PLEADING: Come on . Just a little .
DAVID: You 're crazy . Actually crazy .
DAVID: Who was that ?
WOMAN: You forgot what that was like , did n't you ? How fun it was
DAVID: The morning after .I lost I woke up thinking about you .
HARRY: Dammit !
CHARLIE: Who ?
DAVID: The woman from election night .
TAXI DRIVER: Are you okay ?
HARRY: I 'm fine Will you hand me that ?
DAVID: Okay
EXUBERANT: Susan ! How are you today ? Susan ?
DAVID: Call 911 ! Something 's wrong with Susan !
RICHARDSON: Grab him !
BLACK SCREEN: Silence . Then voices come up slowly
BEAT: What a goddamm mess .
BURDENSKY: Re-setting 's off the table . This is our fault
DAVID: Hey .
RICHARDSON: What are my options ?
IGNORING DAVID: You could bullshit him but you 'll never be completely successful .
DAVID: Can somebody tell me what 's going on ?
BURDENSKY: The questions will burn in him till the day he dies . You 'll have to monitor him constantly
BURDENSKY: If it were me , I 'd level with him .
DAVID: Who are you guys ?
RICHARDSON: We 're the people v ho make sure things happen according to Plan . David stares back at him for a moment .
RICHARDSON: Did you really think I could n't see that coming ?
BEAT: Choose a color . Blue . Choose a number . Seventeen .
RICHARDSON: Now , . why are you still deciding whether or not to run ?
DAVID: What the hell is happening to me ?
RICHARDSON: You just saw behind a curtain you were n't even supposed to know was there , Mr. Norris . Its jarring . I 'm sure .
DAVID: I just came to work
RICHARDSON: It was n't your fault . Your Path through the world this morning was supposed to be adjusted . Your coffee was supposed to.spill onto your shirt as you left Starbucks near your apartment . You would have gone up to change and arrived at work ten minutes later than you did . By then we would have left .
BEAT: People call it `` chance '' when thei coffee spills or their internet goes down or they misplace thei keys . Sometimes it is . Sometimes it 's usnudging you back on Plan .
DAVID: Whatever you were doing to Charlie ack there it was n't misplacing his keys .
RICHARDSON: Sometimes . when nudging a person ack on Plan is n't enough we intervene directly .
DAVID: Why Charlie ? What did you do to him .
RICHARDSON: You need to worry about getting ack on your Plan , David , not worry about us putting him back on his .
DAVID: Yes
RICHARDSON: Not a word . Not one word about us . ( long beat as he studies
DAVID'S FACE: okay . you 're free to go .
SIGHS: There 's always & Woman Richardson motions ; to his men . At.-THE DOOR
DAVID: He said I could go .
RICHARDSON: How is that possible ? Why did n't we get an alert ?
DAVID: You said I could go . Richardson walks over to him .
RIC,HARDSON: You ran into a woman named Elise on the bus this morning ?
DAVID: Why does it'matter ?
RICHARDSON: You were n't ever supposed to see her again .
DAVID: Why do you care . ?
RICHARDSON: Because , David , you ca n't be with her . And we did n't want to have to esort to this
DAVID: What the hell What are you
BARTENDER: You 're David Norris , right ?
DAVID: Ice water .
BARTENDER: That 's it ? David nods . Harry arrives .
HARRY: We should talk . But not here . Go ack to work and I 'll contact you later today with a place to meet .
DAVID: Okay .
HARRY: The world 's exactly the same as it 's always been . You just understand it more completely now .
BEAT: Hang on to what mattered before you knew any of this and you 'll be fine .
DAVID: Thanks .
CHARLIE: There you are . I called your cell ten times . You left me hanging .
DAVID: Sorry
CHARLIE: ( seeing the look in
DAVID'S EYES: Are you okay ? Come on , we 're late . Happy first day by the way . They head towards the conference room .
CHARLIE: You sure you 're okay .
DAVID: Fine . How about you ?
CHARLIE: Great . Why ?
DAVID: No headaches or
CHARLIE: I feel fantastic , -man . Is it just , me or is this an odd conversation ? What the hell happened with the girl ?
DAVID: After the meeting .
DAVID: I lost her number .
CHARLIE: You lost her number ?
DAVID: I was pickpocketed .
CHARLIE: Come on . You ca n't be serious . You 're serious Oh , mandude . I 'm sorry I 'm really sorry
HARRY: A lot of people just collapse when they see what you 've s'een . Thei personal choices suddenly seem meaningless to them . Life starts to feel pointless .
DAVID: I was ` raised to believe there 's something behind the curtain . I just never pictured it quite like this .
HARRY: Most people do n't .
DAVID: You should know . You can read my mind , right ?
HARRY: Richardson was just trying to scare you .
DAVID: He knew what color I was thinking .
HARRY: Because he set it up as a choice . `` Choose a color . Choose a number ''
DAVID: So ?
HARRY: We ca n't read your mind or hea your thoughts . But before you make a choice your brain weighs options , and we percpite that . We know if you 're going to go off Plan `` or not ecause , as long as we 're close enough , we cansense it when it 's about to happen .
DAVID: it- ; ' s like a sixth sense for you ?
HARRY: Seventh , actually .
DAVID: What did they do too Charlie ?
HARRY: Made some small change in the way he assesses risk .
DAVID: What type of risk ?
HARRY: I do n't know . Something arcane . Something to do with mortgage- acked securities .
DAVID: That 's all ?
HARRY: Yes .
DAVID: What would your colleagues do to you if they knew what you were telling me ?
HARRY: That 's why we 're meeting out here .
DAVID: They 're not following me ?
HARRY: We do n't have the manpower to follow everybody all the time . They 're checking in on you . Just not here . Not right now . ON David 's face considering this .
DAVID: Why are you helping me ?
HARRY: I have my reasons .
DAVID: Why do they care if I 'm with Elise ?
HARRY: Your entire reality gets shattered this morning and you want to know about a woman ?
DAVID: Why do they care ?
HARRY: I do n't know .
DAVID: You have no idea ?
HARRY: All I know is , given the amount of esources they 've used , keeping you from her is pretty important to them . You 're going to look for her are n't you ? Again , David is silent .
BEAT: Even if a hypnotist pulled he number out of the recesses of you ain , no matter how many times you called it , you , 'd never get through
DAVID: They send you here to tell me that ?
DRIVER: The next stop
DAVID: Now .
ELISE: David ?
DAVID: Hi .
ELISE: Wow How areyou .
DAVID: I rode the Ml to work every day fo the last three years hoping one day I 'd run into you again .
ELISE: Calling would have been easier .
DAVID: I could n't .
ELISE: Girlfriend would n't let you ?
DAVID: No girlfriend .
ELISE: Do n't you have to get to work ?
DAVID: I just got sick .
ELISE: `` I have n't seen you in three years - - You make me sick '' is not an ideal come-on . For the record .
DAVID: One second .
PICKING UP: CharlieT ca n't make breakfast .
DAVID: AndI might have to push the speech .
ELISE: You just hung up on your best friend .
DAVID: We 've known each other since we were kids . We have a shorthand .
ELISE: What speech ?
DAVID: Does n't matter . Let 's take a walk .
ELISE: Where ?
DAVID: Somewhere far . We have a lot to talk about .
ELISE: I do n't think you should cancel your speech . What if I do n't like you at the end of our walk ?
DAVID: I 'll take my chances .
ELISE: Seri6us1y , my number has n't changed . Just call me like you did n't last time .
DAVID: My-speech will always be there , you might not be .
DAVID: Walk with me and I 'll explain that .
ELISE: Stalker .
DAVID: Can we walk ? The moment she finally relents , CUT TO
MCCRADY: We have a problem .
ELISE: It 's been years , David . How do you know I do n't have a boyfriend ?
DAVID: you have a boyfriend ?
EL ;E: Would it-Matter ?
TRAPPED: Uhyeah
ELISE: So all the stuff about me being in your mind constantly for the last three years was just talk The truth is you do n't have any real conviction .
DAVID: It would n't matter .
ELISE: So you do n't care about being a home-wrecker ?
DAVID: Okay if you were married it would matter .
ELISE: Now you 're just trying to say what you think I want to hear . A beat . She lets David twist in the wind
DAVID: I did n't have your number .
ELISE: What ?
DAVID: It was taken from me . I was mugged .
ELISE: Oh , come on .
DAVID: Your number was in my Wallet and they , took it .
ELISE: Come on..
DAVID: I 'm serious . What else could possibly-explain my fawning all over you on that bus three years agoand again today and not calling you in between ?
DUH: Um , you had a girlfriend and you felt guilty . I have a thing about eing lied to , David .
DAVID: I swear to God I did n't have you number . I swear on my parents ' graves .
BEAT: And none of them were you .
ELISE: You really are smooth .
DAVID: That 's not fair .
ELISE: It 's okay . I like it . I probably should n't , but I do .
BEAT: It 's Sellas . Elise Sellas .
RICHARDSON: Tell me you 're kidding . How could our Path-analysis miss this ?
MCCRADY: Central Park . Bethesda Fountain .
ELISE: I read somewhere you 're running again .
DAVID: I have n't announced yet but soon .
ELISE: I hope I had a little something to do with that .
DAVID: That concession speech I gave sure did . You had everything to do with that . Elise smiles .
ELISE: According to Cosmo I 'm supposed to keep it that way .
DAVID: According to Maxim , I 'm supposed to `` maintain eye contact and ask you what you do for a living . ''
LAUGHS: I 'm a dancer .
DAVID: Oh..
ELISE: Not like that , you pervert . In a dance company . The . Manhattan Modern Ballet .
DAVID: I think you have the wrong idea about me .
ELISE: I think it was the first thing that crossed your mind .
DAVID: Is there a performance of this company coming up that I could watch ?
ELISE: Actually , we have a show opening tomorrow night .
DAVID: I 'm there . You hungry yet ?
ELISE: Yeah
BEAT: But I 'm not putting out just ecause you 're buying me brunch .
DAVID: We could wait an hour and call it lunch .
ELISE: I bet lines like that work wonders with the `` dancers '' you normally hang out with .
DAVID: So unfair
WAITER: Good morning . It 's good to see you again , .sir .
DAVID: Thank you . You 're Paul , right ? DeSanto ?
WAITER: Wow , yeah . How did you remembe that ? It 's been a year .
RICHARDSON AIDE: Morris is on the artistic director . Melton is on Charlie Traynor .
RICHARDSON: This whole thing will be over in an hour .
MCCRADY: We may not have that long .
RICHARDSON: What ?
ELISE: How do you do that ? I ca n't emember the names of people I just met .
DAVID: David .
ELISE: Right.. Thanks_ . '
MCCRADY: Her decision tree is diverging from our models .
CONFIDENT: 36 hours without contact and she 'll never speak to him again . I 've studied her file . Her deepest fea in life is
MCCRADY: No , something is wrong . I 'm already seeing inflection points . Off Richardson 's surprised look
ELISE: Ballet is basically impossible to do correctly .
DAVID: Why ?
ELISE: You just do absurd things . with you ody . The movement is completely unnatural . It requires incredible strength in all sorts of random muscles . And you have to be born with ridiculous amounts of flexibility in your hip or you 'll never be an y good .
RICHARDSON: What 's that ?
MCCRADY: If they kiss
DISBELIEVING: A kiss , that 's all it takes ?
MCCRADY: A real kiss . But once they do that every possible adjustment that 's strong enough to break them up will cause ripples over your limit .
RICHARDSON: If Melton and Morris do their jobs ight we 'll be okay . But Richardson is clearly worried .
ELISE: In the history of ballet there 've only been a handful of people who actually did ballet the way it 's supposed to be done . Forme that just made it completely addictive .
DAVID: Do you ever get nervous when people watch you ?
ELISE: Not really . Do you get anxious when you make ' a speech ?
DAVID: I get more anxious alone in my apartment than in front of an auditorium full of people . Everything 's backwards for me .
RICHARDSON: Nice work .
DAVID: How did you find me ?
CHARLIE: Does it matter ?
TO DAVID: There 's a crowd of people standing around downtown waiting for you .
ELISE: Your speech ?
CHARLIE: He 's announcing today .
ELISE: At the speech ?
DAVID: It 's okay .
CHARLIE: What 's okay ? It 's not okay . The one thing you ca n't be this . time around is impulsive . That 's why we 're announcing the way we are ,
ELISE: God , do n't skip this for me .
DAVID: I told you I 'm not letting you out of my sight .
CHARLIE: David , what the hell ?
DAVID: Come with me . Come and watch .
SMILING: Okay . Her phone buzzes with a text message .
CHARLIE: Great . Perfect solution . Now , let 's pay and get you over there .
ELISE: Now ?
CHARLIE: The speech is in 30 minutes .
ELISE: I ca n't then . They just moved my dress rehearsal to noon .
DAVID: We can reschedule the speech .
ELISE: David !
TO ELISE: Thank you .
ELISE: I 'll meet you right after the ehearsal .
DAVID: Where does your company perform ?
ELISE: We 're n in our space . There was a ` ; power ot outage or something . We 're using a space '' on Murray and West Broadway today .
REALIZING: That 's four blocks from where you 're speaking .
CHARLIE: You can literally walk there afte the speech . David nods , his suspicions fading .
CHECKING WATCH: But we 've got to leave right now .
MCCRADY: The `` four blocks '' thing was a illiant move , boss .
RICHARDSON: We 're not out of the woods yet .
DAVID: Okay .
ELISE: You know , the speech on election night , you said I inspired you I wish I could do that again now .
DAVID: just want to
NEEDLING: Well , you 're really just a hit with women of all ages , are n't you ?
CHARLIE: I 'm wrangling him right now
DAVID: Whatever happensI 'm not going to let anything stand between us this time .
ELISE: Okay . .. I believe you . Of course I tend to believe in the wrong people . Especially men .
DAVID: Not this time . He leans in to kiss her
MCCRADY: We 're okay
RICHARDSON: That was way too close . What the hell is going on with this case ?
DAVID: What ?
CHARLIE: I 've just never seen you like that . David ca n't possibly explain .
BEAT: I do n't know
RICHARDSON: Richardson . Yes , sir . Believe me , it was a surprise to me too . But I think we have it under control .
LAUREN: Oh , you 're clone . You 're gone
DAVID: .I 'm here today to honor that , and to announce my intention to run for the United States Senate
LAUREN: Just tell me if he disappears one more time you 'll never take his call again .
ELISE: Do n't worry . That 's definite .
CHARLIE: Good Morning America at 7am tomorrow , then you have the bankers group David , are you listening ?
RICHARDSON: D ` emit ! Richardson-steps back out of the sunlight .
FUMING: I can not get a break on this case .
DAVID: I have to see Elise now .
CHARLIE: After you go back out there and talk to the New York channels
DAVID: Tomorrow . After GMA . He heads for the door . Charlie follows .
CHARLIE: No , we need this on the nightly ( catching up to David and
STOPPING HIM: David
CHARLIE: Every time we get close.. .you do something to derail it .
DAVID: This is different . Trust me , it 's different . David leaves .
JUMP CUT: David dials 411 .
DAVID: Can I have the number for the Manhattan Modern Ballet
MCCRADY: He 's going to go next door .
DAVID: Do you have a phone book ?
RICHARDSON: There is an entire world of women out there . I thought I made it clear this one was off limits . David takes off walking .
DAVID: I must have forgotten . It 's been a while .
RICHARDSON: Does n't change the fact .
DAVID: Why are you so.determined to keep us apart ?
RICHARDSON: You know why .
DAVID: The Plan ? If there is a Pi ri you misread it .
RICHARDSON: There 's no misreading what the Plan says about you and Elise . It 's unequivocal .
DAVID: Then your Plan 's wrong .
RICHARDSON: Do you realize who wrote this Plan ?
DAVID: I do n't care .
RICHARDSON: Well you should . You need to learn a little more respect .
DAVID: Why are you keeping us apart ?
RICHARDSON: Because the Plan calls for it .
FLARING: You put us together three times
RICHARDSON: That was chance . That was n't us .
DAVID: Three times ? Bullshit ! If I 'm not supposed to be with her then why do I feel like this ?
RICHARDSON: It does n't matter what you feel . It matters what 's in black and white .
DAVID: You do n't know , do you ? You do n't know why they 're keeping us apart
COVERING: 'It 's not something your mind could comprehend .
DAVID: You 're in a nice suit but the eality is you 're just a minion are n't you ?
MCCRADY: He 's deciding how to
REALIZING: Uh..oh
LOUD: Excuse me ladies and gentleman ( as people turn and look ,
RECOGNIZE HIM: I 'm sorry to disturb your lunch . I have a bit of an emergency . Is there anybody in this room who 's ever seen a performance of the Manhattan Modern Ballet ?
RICHARDSON: Son of a bitch .
MCCRADY: He 's smart . He 's very smart .
RICHARDSON: Maybe you should try the subway . David holds him in a steely gaze .
DAVID': Do n't all those cab drivers you 're diverting have Plans too ? What about all the other people looking for cabs in this part of the city ight n6t ? What about their Plans ? The ripples must be endless
DAVID: I do n't care what you put in my way , I 'm not going to give up .
MCCRADY: You 've got two more minutes keeping taxis off West Broadway before
FRUSTRATED: I need something that 's going to keep him in place longer
DAVID: Jesus . , Is this how far you people will go ? ! He rushes toward the accident
POLICE OFFICER: Unfortunately you 're the only witness , Congressman .
DAVID: How much longer ?
POLICE OFFICER: A few more minutes . I 'm sorry . I know you have to meet somebody .
DAVID: I did n't say I had to meet anyone .
POLICE OFFICER: Well I just assumed
RICHARDSON: Amateur ! That 's an amateur 's mistake !
DAVID: You 're not a real cop , are you ? You 're one of them . Somebody could have been killed in that crash ! Does n't that make you
"POLICE OFFICER": Sir , calm down . But David 's already walking away .
DAVID: Sergeant !
SERGEANT: No , sir , we know ow to get in touch with you .
DAVS,D: Thank you . '.Is this man under you command ?
DAVID: 17th Street between 10th and 11th . And sir , you might have to break some traffic laws getting there . So take this .
DAVID: Go through that The driver blows through it as it turns re
RICHARDSON: I want more red liUhtss
MCCRADY: There are too many , ripples in the system.. Cumm.lative effects are . coming into play .
RICHARDSON: A traffic jam .
MCC: That 's even w r. We have to get more localize .
RICHARDSON: He 's getting out of range !
CHEF: Hey !
RI.CEARDSON: Wrong one . .. Two doors down . God , I hate downtown !
RICHARDSON: What ?
RECEPTIONIST: Is she expecting you ? He nods .
LAUREN: I hope you realize how lucky you are . I 'm the friend . Lauren .
RICHARDSON: Can ' I block the front door ?
NCCRADY: He 's already through Pit .
RICHARDS6N: The next one !
LAUREN: It goes without saying that I 'll kill you if you hurt her .
BEAT: And by the way , congratulations on your announcement .
MCCRADY: There are several next ones
EXASPERATED: I 'm blocking them all
MCCRADY: Wait , he 's
DAVID: I 'm in serious trouble here
CONSULTING FOLIO: Forget it ! He 's already there
RICHARDSON: Dammit !
DREAD: It 's Mr. Donaldson .
RICHARDSON: Celebrate while you can . They 'll just kick it upstairs now You have no idea what you 're up against .
MCCRADY: Sir ?
SECRETARY #1: He 's waiting for you .
DAVID: You 're incredible . How did you get that good ?
ELISE: It 's all I do . It 's the only thing I ever wante & to be . And I started young .
AVID: How young ?
ELISE: By third grade I was going every day after school .
DAVID: That 's a lot of motivation for an eight year-old .
ELISE: We moved around a lot then . Dance was kind of my stability .
DAVID: Sure it was the only constant in your life , aside from you parents
ELISE: Really more the dance .
DAVID: Oh
ELISE: I take it this is an unauthorized social break .
DAVID: I 'm a candidate for the US- Serrate . I do n't have to punch out '' when I leave . David sends the call to voice.mai
ELISE: Charlie ?
DAVID: Couple houtrs while I 'm out of touch wo n't ill him .
ELISE: Couple hour , huh ? Well , we bette make them , ,- , 'count .
DAVID: I 'm a terrible dancer . I do n't dance . Elise climbs out . David follows .
ELISE: You do n't now . By the end of the night , you will .
DAVID: You 're going to teach me to dance in one night ? Not happening .
ELISE: Are you doubting me ?
DAVID: Yes .
ELISE: Do n't .
DAVID: Holy shit
DONALDSON: The disciplinary rules requ-te me to . demote you in rank and re-assign yot to a less desirable post .
BURDENSKY: It seems like these two were meant to be together because they were meant to be together
RICHARDSON: What ? !
BURDENSKY: Were , in the past , in an earlie version of the plan . Actually a dozen earlier versions .
BEAT: God knows how many artifacts pushing them together are left in the current plan .
DAVID: Serious , serious.trouble
ELISE: Ready ? Nope .
RICHARDSON: Why was it changed ?
DONALDSON: Something important . They went from `` meant to be together '' to `` red- letter denied relationship '' in a single Plan revision a few years ack . As for why , specifically , that 's apparently above even my pay grade
RICHARDSON: You spend your whole career hoping that one day you 'll get a `` red- letter '' case . Something you can eally make a name for yourself with . Finally I get one and it 's . .booby-trapped
ELISE: Okay , we 've al-ready used up an hour , we > etter hurry . She pills him toward the exit .
DAVID: Hurry where ?
ELISE: You 've got to let yourself feel the music .
DAVID: I 've been told I have trouble feeling .
ELISE: Whoever said that has n't seen you speak .
DAVID: That 's different . I mean
ELISE: What ?
DAVID: In private . With women AlthOugh that might be changing . Is there any style of dance you can 't do ?
ELISE: Next stop , the best 80s club in the city . You ready ?
DAVID: To make an ass of myself for the third time in one night ? 4 ` r , 6 ' .
DAVID': What are'the rules of the race-
ELISE: No rules .
DAVID: Hmmm , could get ugly
ELISE: You bastard !
DAVID: Quit complaining and run .
PISSED SMILE: That was good . That was very good .
DAVID: You said `` no rules '' .
IT HURTS: Sweet Jesus ! Christ on a crutch !
GIGGLING: You said you had trouble feeling .
DAVID: You 're insane .
ELISE: We . need a cab . He'laughing through the'pain .
DAVID: I 'm serious . You 're a maniac . You should come with a warning label .
ELISE: I do . You just ca n't see it with my clothes on .
DAVID: Does n't this song make you feel like you 're at your high school prom ?
ELISE: I was six when it came out . So , not really .
MUSIC: Baby1-I-I ca n't wait
DONALDSON'S AIDE: So we 're going operational ? This is exciting . It 's been a while .
DONALDS: We r t no ti go p etational No one ever.mad & to my job by taking stupit ris , s .
'DONALDSON: We 're going to kick this case upstairs.. .to someone with the latitude to clean up this mess without breaking into a sweat . We 're going to walk this upstairs to Thompson .
DONALDSON'S AIDE: Thompson ? Are we even allowed to go to him directly ? He 's a Senio
DONALDSON: Exec VP .
DONALDSON'S AIDE: Is n't he the one.. .when he was in the field his nickname was
DONALDSON: `` The Hammer ? '' Yes . He 'll crush this romance with the flick of his hand . And he 'll thank me fo giving him the opportunity .
STROBE LIGHTS: David and Elise dancing .
MUSIC: Cause I ca n't wait , . this .is what I 've been waiting for
ELISE: You grew up over there ?
ELISE: What were you like as a. kid ?
DAVID: Before sixth grade I spent about half my time in the principal 's office .
ELISE: You ? Really ?
DAVID: The only person who spent as much time down there as me was a girl I had a huge crush on so I did n't mind too much .
ELISE: Did your dad work here ?
DAVID: No My dad filled vending machines .
ELISE: And you 're going to be a senator
DAVID: After my brother died my Dad wanted to get me out of town for a while . We went to Washington and the day we arrived he took meto the . Capitol . We ended up sitting in the Senate gallery ; , all day . We could see that from the end of my block , but-be never once encouraged me to go to Wall Street . His idol was JFK . He thought usiness guys were selfish .
ELISE: Soareyou doing all this- f.o him ?
DAVID: I want to matter . I do n't think that 's just forrhim . Elise , . tucks her head into his shoulder .
ELISE: I do n't want tonight to mess anything..up for you , for the campaign .
DAVID: Just make sure I make it to Diane Sawyer on time and I 'll be fine . Elise looks at him for a long beat .
ELISE: You 're different somehow you make me believe
DAVID: Believe what ?
ELISE: Just believe , period .
DAVID: I. do n't want perfect. , .
ELISE. ,: I 'm trying to say .I 'm not sure somebody running . for office can have , me in their life .
DAVID: I have n't stopped thinking about you since the moment I met you . I want you in my life
ELISE: There are skeletons in my closet , David . The kind that
DAVID: Listen to me
ELISE: The kind that people use against
DAVID: Elise , listen ! I do n't care . We 'll work it out I 've spent my whole life wondering why it takes auditoriums of people to fill the empty space inside me . Then I met youand realized it does n't . She looks at him . He means it .
ELISE: You scare me .
DAVID: That was n't the effect I was going for She smilesthen laughs out-loud
THOM BON: Let it happen again .
DAVID: You been up long ?
ELISE: No .
DAVID: Did you wake up in . the middle of the night ?
ELISE: Slept straight through .
DAVID: I thought you never sleep through .
ELISE: I do n't .
BEAT: I told you , you scare me . He kisses her .
DAVID: I wo n't hurt you .
ELISE: Hello ? Why , are you calling ?
LISTENS: NoI . Look , I have to go She hangs up . David looks at her .
DAVID: What 's wrong..
ELISE: That was my , ex . Adrian .
DAVID: Oh I did n't I guess we had n't gotten to that stuff yet
ELISE: He has n't called since we broke up .
DAVID: How long ?
ELISE: Three months .
DAVID: Was it serious ?
ELISE: We were engaged .
DAVID: What happened ? Complete honesty .
ELISE: He left
DAVID: What an idiot .
ELISE: You do n't know me that well yet . You 're still in the wishful thinking phase .
BEAT: Truth is I should . ; -Have left him a long time before he left me . It was a , ain ' l relationship . It hurt tb be i-h it every day .
DAVID: But it was h'ard to leave .
ELISE: H & knew what buttons. , tb push .
DAVID `': that him ?
ELISE: David . It 's not It 's ove etween us . Completely overI want to be clear about that . I 'm pretty sure yesterday was the most perfect day I 've ever had .
DAVID: Me too . David looks at the clock .
ELISE: I know .
DIANE SAWYER: You 've overcome enormous obstacles in your life and risen to-such heights so quickly People are fascinated by you .
DAVID: Only people who have n't spent enough time with ' me to know the 'truth .
DIANE SAWYER: As a speaker and politician you 've een repeatedly compared to JFK .
DAVID: By my campaign manager mostly .
GRINS: You 're the youngest person eve elected to Congress . Which you celebrated by getting in a ba fight on inauguration night .
DAVID: With a childhood friend . So I do n't think that counts . And , truthfully , that 's how we celebrate things we 're I 'm from .
DIANE SAWYER: Let 's just say you have a habit of getting into the press forothe uniquely human things as well
DAVID: that a euphemism , Diane ? She laughs .
DIANE SAWYER: Most politicians
DAVID: I think Americans are tired of electing automatons whose every word and move is stage-managed so as not to offend anyone . I think they want somebody who does n't hide who he is or what he really elieves . I guess I 'm hoping they want to elect someone who 's actually like them .
LAUGHS: But I could be very wrong about that .
DIANE SAWYER: And if you are ?
DAVID: You 'd be surprised at the number of underwear companies that have approached me to be thei spokesman .
ABC ID: Ma'am , Congressman Norris asked me to give you a message .
DIANE SAWYER: They 're saying your girlfriend can we call her that ? Is this one going to last more than a month ?
DAVID: You can call her that . And yes . Definitely .
DIANE SAWYER: They 're saying she 's getting a tou of the control room in studio C. Can somebody take Congressman Norris to studio C ?
DAVID: God dammit !
VOICE: If people could hear you out there it would n't be a very good soundstage , would it ?
THOMPSON: My name 's Thompson .
DAVID: What happened to Free Will ?
THOMPSON: Who said anything about Free Will ? David stares back at him .
BEAT: The Chairman thought maybe we just needed to do a better job of teaching you how to ride the bike efore we took the training wheels off again . So we gave you the Renaissance , the Enlightenment , the Scientific Revoluton . we spent six hundred years tempering you passions with reason. , then in 1910 we stepped ba c again . Within fifty yearsyou brought us World War I , the lepre'ssion , Fascism , the Holocaust ani capped it off by ingingtheentire planet to the ink of destruction in the Cuban Missile Crisis . A decisiOfl was taken atthat point that we ' should stop in again before ou did _soittething even we Cduld n't fix .
DAVID: You expect me . 'to believe that ?
BORED SHRUG: You have Free Will over what tie you pick in the morning , or what everage to order at lunch . But humanity just is n't mature enough to have control over the important things .
DAVID: If you 're in control of the important things then you 're incompetent cause when I look around at the world these days it seems pretty fucked .
THOMPSON: It 's still here . If we 'd left things in your hands , it would n't e .
DAVID: Why are you trying to keep me from Elise ? Or are you just anothe lackey who does n't really know ?
THOMPSON: We put Elise in front of you three years ago to inspire you to , .g ` ve that speech the speech that pulled you back from the brink of oblivion and , overnight , itiade.you the front runner for this coming election . The intervention on Charlie was to prevent the hedge fund you had just become vice chairman of from going belly up in the sub-prime=crisis , bringing two major banks down . with it , arid in , the process making you unelectable . David blinks . Tries to , process this .bAVID Are you s aying you warit me to win this election ?
THOMP50N,: This 'one and six mom , after it . And t 'm not just talking about ` elections ' for Senate .
THOMPSON: You can matter , David . Really matter . What you wanted your whole life . What your father wanted when he took you to the Senate gallery when you were ten . What you other wanted when he made you promise , the day before he overdosed , that you would n't be like him .
DAVID: Stop . Do n't tell me this .
THOMPSON: Why do you think you have that yearning to be in front of people . . .and that terrible emptiness when you 're not ?
DAVID: Stop .
THOMPSON: David you are meant to change the world . But that does n't happen if you stay with her .
DAVID: Why does it matter to you who I love ? Some skeleton of hers ` is so ad I wo n't get elected ? I do n't elieve that !
THOMPSON: It 's not about her- ..it 's about you , what being with her does to
1HOMPSON: Yes . The speech Put it this wad in small doses , Elise was the cure . But in large doses When you 're enthralledwith someone she ' rubs off on you .
DA ID: Stop . Just stop .
THOMPSON: David , the president ca n't be a
DAVID: Stop talking . It 's not working .
BEAT: I 'm a politician . I spend my life with professional liars . With people who decide what they want and then figure out the story they have to tell to get it .
THOMPSON: Why do you refuse to accept what should be completely obvious by now ? You 've seen what we can do . You ca n't doubt we are who we say we are .
DAVID: I do n't care who you are . I do n't care who 's orders you 're following .
THOMPSON: You ca n't outrun your fate , David .
DAVID: Who said anything about running .
THOMPSON: Maybe we should just reset you .
DAVID: We both know if you could have we would n't be standing here having this conversation
THOMPSON: You fight us , we will take everything from you .
DAVID: You already did once . ' And I 'm still standing
BEAT: always knew you were out there . We all do . It 's the one thing we have in common . Whether we call it God or the Devil or Fate we all know you 're out there , fucking with us
THOMPSON: You 'd still be living in caves if it were n't for us .
WELLING EMOTION: You crush our dreams because they do n't fit with your Plan . You Plan that has no space for me falling in love but somehow has oom for Tsunamis and cyclones and Darfur and AIDS . Fuck your plan . I reject it . I reject you .
BEAT: Kill me . Or erase me . Or let me go .
THOMPSON: It 's 6 20 . If you leave now , you 'll make Elise 's show .
DAVID: What do you want ?
THOMPSON: There 's one more piece to all this I have n't told you . I guess I did n't have the heart . If you stay with her , it does n't just kill you dreams , it kills hers .
DAVID: What ?
THOMPSON: Elise is about to become one of the most famous dancers in the country and eventually one of the greatest choreographers in the world .
BEAT: If she stays with you she ends up teaching dance to eight year-olds .
DAVID: I do n't believe you . I thought we already established that . A beat .
THOMPSON: When you look back at all this , David , just remember , we tried to eason with you .
ELISE: If it 's brokenmy career 's over .
DAVID: Do n't say that . Do n't .
THOMPSON: I always hear people saying `` you yourself for what ca n't bla M4 ' hpens fih other people , '' but in this case , really , you can . David stands up . and punnhesThompson in ` the face . h T ompson is knocked onto his ass .
GETTING UP: This is what you did the first night you got elected . This is what you did at that college eunion . We give you opportunities people would kill for and you squander them with impulse . It does n't take a genius to see Elise is n't exactly going to help you with that .
ELISE: How bad is it ?
THOMPSON: You 're an educated man . You 've ead the Greek tragedies ` . In the end Fate always wins David looks back at him in steely silence .
DAVID: Really ?
THOMPSON: This time .
BEAT': Do you really want to watch he lose the only thing she 's eve cared about ? You just got the tiniest taste of what that looks like The thought makes David ill .
THOMPSON: Walk away . If you truly love her , walk away . She 'll hate you fo itbut that way she 'll be able to let you go quickly . You can give her that at least .
ELISE: It 's a sprain ! It 's just a sprain ! David gives her a tight hug .
DAVID: You 're going to be fine .
ELISE: They want to do an MRIto assess the ligament . damage but . - . They break from them hug .
DAVID: It 's ; going to be fine . And as incredible of a dancer as you already are , yot 're just going to get better and better
ELISE: You okay ?
DAVID: I 'm justhappy for you
THOMPSON: You 're doing the right thing , David . Not just for her , and the world . . .but for yourself .
CHARLIE: How 's he doing ?
CAMPAIGN AIDE: They still love him Papers ?
CHARLIE: Thanks .
DAVID: I 'm started .
CHARLIE: I 'm going to show you this because you 'd find out eventually and ecause I want to be here when you do .
DAVID: I think I need I
CHARLIE: Take a day off . Take a couple . We 're sixteen points up .
HOLLOWED OUT: Even I ca n't blow a lead that big .
DAVID: Do you still serve neighborhood guys here or just the tourists ?
HARRY: I would have come earlier but I had to wait for the rain . Water interferes with their ability to sense your decision tree . That 's why we met on a boat last time .
BEAT: I guess I 'm here to set the record straight .
DAVID: About what ?
HARRY: 8ecause. , ..she 's enough , David . If you have =her r tau rtt .ght not need to fill the d side you with votes and ataplause'and dreams of one day ecoming p sident
DAVID: Why are you so different than they are ?
HARRY: You know , your Dad was a smart man . He could have been a lot more and he wanted to be . So did you other . But the Plan did n't call for that . This hits David hard .
EMOTIONAL: And most of the time.. .you do n't even know why
BEAT: I 'm sorry
DAVID: My mom ?
HARRY: That was n't me that was n't us at all .
DAVID: When Thompson told methe choice as Elise or the White House I arely hesitated .
D1 ID: But the trt t i ` is after making that choice I went into a free-fall Do n't get=me wrong , it killed me to see Thompson hurt herbut I used it as an excuse . I think I left her more to save my career than hers .
STRUGGLING: Thompson was n't lying . The press is already talking about me as a future president . I 'm phoning in my speeches and I 'm still sixteen points up in the polls .
HARRY: The public loves you .
DAVID: Before I met Elise that was all that mattered . Now I hardly notice . She 's all I think about .
BEAT: Do you know where she 's getting married ?
HARRY: Front of a judge . Tomorrow morning .
DAVID: Is she happy with him ? Tell me she is and I 'll walk away .
HARRY: Thompson wo n't let you get nea that courthouse .
DAVID: Harry is she happy ?
HARRY: No . A beat .
DAVID: Will you help me  Just help me get to her
HARDY: They 'll sense ) tOu coming a mile away . '
DAVID: What if Icould move as fast as you can ?
HARRY: What do you mean ?
DAVID: Teach me about the doors .
HARRY: How do you know about that ?
DAVID: The first day , after they caught me , they carried me through one.I thought it was a hallucination at first . Eventually I realized it 's how you move around so fast . If you do n't want to help me ecause of what they 'll do to youokay , that 's your choice . But if this is about protecting me then should n't the choice be mine ?
HARRY: Do you have any idea how complicated it is to navigate through those doors how many thousands of permutations there are in even a simple several block journey ?
DAVID: You know , when I do town hall meetings I usually get introduced to forty or fifty people between when I walk , through ' the door and when I start speaking . But when I 'm done with the speech I can call on each one of them by ` game . A beat
HARRY: I 've seen you do that The rain is supposed to stop in the nexthou ' r . We 're going to need all night to do this . And we 're going to need aplace surrounded by wate to do it .
HARRY: Put your hand on my shoulder . And do n't let go until we 've crossed the threshold .
DAVID: Are they ever locked ?
HARRY: Maybe if you have a defective hat . They step through the door and onto
ELISE: Floor open ?
RECEPTIONIST: You okay , sweetie ?
ELISE: I just feel like being on the floor .
RECEPTIONIST: Everything still on for tomorrow ? Elise nods , trying to cover her ambivalence .
HARRY: Lower Manhattan is a nightmare . Layer upon layer of substrate that 's what we call the system of doors has been added over time . That makes it a lot more complex to navigate down here than it is uptown . And a lot slower .
DAVID: Let 's go .
HARRY: Your destination . Courtroom Six .
DAVID: North Moore St. Just south of the coffee shop Red door . I come out on Broadway , near Leonard St .
HARRY: Good . Keep going .
DAVID: ( eyes closed , trying to
PICTURE IT: There 's an alley in front of me . Third door on
HARRY: Thompson 's there .
DAVID: Okay so I hightail it East-to Lafayette no , it 's Crosby Street there . INT . DANCE COMPANY Nit ; HT Elise dances .
HARRY: one wearing a hat Is . a threat . vv1Le . h e rea lizes w hat ' = g oin g on , Thompson is gong to pull out all the stops . H going to get einforcement Jots of them . I do n't care if u'see a auv wearing a Yankees ca a '' yarmulke , or a owler , as he 's working fo them .
'DAVID: Okay , you said he 's right in front of me , right ? Harry nods .
DAVID: I 'd knock the Yankees cap off his head and go through the door before he has a chance to pick it up
HARRY: Good good improvisation . We have trouble with that
DAVID: How am I doing ?
HARRY: Do n't get cocky . You know ten permutations out of ten thousand . Get back to work .
HARRY: Yourbrain can only put so much in at once . Take- a brreak .
DAVID: Could I ever learn to read that ? Harry shakes his head . Impossible .
HARRY: For the same reason you ca n't eathe underwater or flap you arms and fly . You 're not built to do it .
DAVID: Is that me ?
HARRY: Elise . Her decision tree . What it was a few hours ago , before the ain , before we were down here . David looks at it , then looks away .
DAVID: I want to ask you what it says.. .what she 's thinking.. .bit somehow that feels wrong .
HARRY: You know what she 's thinkin-g , 'David as much as you need to know . The rest wellyou 're ` built to feel that .
DAVID: The fastest path is getting to the lue door right off the bat
HARRY: But you 're exposed the whole way there . It 's a lot riskier than leapfrogging through doors
DAVID: But if I can make itI'.Il have caught them completely bysurprise .
HARRY: Assuming you make it .
COURT REGISTRAR: Do you have your license ? Adrian hands her his marriage license .
ADRIAN: Getting out of a cab downstairs .
COURT REGISTRAR: Courtroom Six .
HARRY: You got lucky . It 's raining again .
DAVID: The marriage is scheduled for ten minutes from now .
HARRY: You ca n't jump the gun on this , ,.. Getting there too early is almost as bad as getting there too late .
DAVID: I 'm going for the blue door .
HARRY: Of course
THOMPSON'S AIDE: It was a momentary flash , and given the weather we ca n't be sure , but it looks like Mr. Norris may be
ADRIAN: Hi , honey . You okay ?
ELISE: Just a little queasy .
ADRIAN: Why ?
ELISE: I 'm not sure . Nervous I just need a minute in the bathroom .
THOMPSON: Cars ! Cars ! From here it 's faste in the cars !
THOMPSON: What ?
THOMPSON'S AIDE: He just went into the substrate Off Thompson 's reaction
COURT CLERK: Docket # 22 please come forward
ADRIAN: We 're next . Will you check on her ?
'DAM: It 's an emergency .
NEW YORKER: We all have emergencies , pal .
THEN REALIZING: Are you David Norris ?
ELISE: Am I making the biggest mistake of my life ?
CAREFULLY: I ca n't answer that question fo you , Elise . But I will say
ELISE LAUREN: If you have doubts I 'm okay .
ELISE: I 'm just nervous . You have n't done this yet . It 's overwhelming
SECURITY OFFICER: Congressman ! You left . your
COURT CLERK: Docket # 23 please come forward .
LAUREN: David ? !
DAVID: Where is she ?
LAUREN: You want to explain to me
NO TIME: Where is she ? !
SOFTENING: I 'll . explain to her
DAVID: Hi
ELISE: Why are you doing this to me ?
COURTROOM: David elbows him in the face . The man drops .
ELISE: David !
DAVID: You 're not supposed to be weeping on your wedding day , Elise .
ELISE: This is so screwed up . Oh , -God..
DAVID: I love you . I know I 've acted strangely . But , I love you .
ELISE: Do n't do this to me .
DAVID: I 've never felt anything like . this in my life .
ELISE: If you care 'so much , why the hell did you disappear on me in that hospital ?
EL SE: What are you ha.d1 g from me ? Why did you diS pp ` ear `` Again ! You fucking bastard ! Why ? Tears are streaming down her face .
DAVID: They 'll reset me
ELISE: David , stop talking like this ! Stop !
DAVID: But at least you 'll know the truth .
BEAT: I saw behind the curtain , Elise . I saw this .
DAVID: It 's not in their `` Plan '' for us to e together . So they 're trying to stop us .
THOMPSON'S AIDE: Oh myGod He just revealed us .
ELISE: Stop talking like a crazy person . Stop making things up
DAVID: They said if we were togethe they ' ` d take dance from you and politic , s , from me . They hurt you ankle that night . They
THOMPSON: Call the Intervention Team ! Tell them it 's a square-one reset !
ELISE: Jesus.. .the cops are after you ? !
DAVID: He 's not a cop . He 's one of them .
ELISE: Who 's `` them ? '' SLAM ! SLAM ! The door cracks
DAVID: I 'm going to show you .
DAVID: The rain slows them down but they can track us . We have two orthree minutes . Maybe less . Elise is still speechless . He takes her hand .
BEAT: The thing is , if they 'd let me be with you I wouldn'tk have left politipe . t , just would have beef in it , or . all the right reasons .
DAVID: Now you know . Youknota everything . And you have to leave mitie .
BAVA: They 'll take ` dance from you . You saw what they-'did before .
ELISE: No .
DAVID: You 're not safe with me . If you
DON'T LEAVE: She puts her finger to his lip . Shhhh
ELISE: It does n't make any sense but , ight now I feel safer than I 've ever felt before .
BEAT: I 'm staying
ELISE: Every door ? tavid nodsas they walk into another
DAVID: Let 's go .
ELISE: We ca n't keep running forever , . David .
DAVID: If they find us they 'll take you from me .
ELISE: I wo n't let..them .
DAVID: They 'll take you from here . David touches his head ' .
ELISE: No , I wo n't let them . She leans , -.over and kisses hi 's forehead .
DAVID: Perfect .
DAVID: They 're not supposed to be locked !
ELISE: This one 's open !
THE CHAIRMAN: Hello , David Good morning , Elise . His voice is gentle , paternal .
DAVID: Who are you ?
THE CHAIRMAN: I think you know .
DAVID: You ca n't oti { rn Fate Tft , CHAIRMAN It 's .more- complicated t , } an that , Fate am Free Will coexist They 're ; in tension with each other . And pure chance . A beat . David looks back at him
TH2;.>HAT, RMAN: I could control 'everything . You 'd e ha ` 3 ou ' d be puppets . I try to .keep things from getting too out of control . But that has a cost . Most people go through life like pinballs , reacting predictably to the stimuli I apply . They accept the path they find themselves on . And perform accordingly . But every once in a while someone comes along who efuses to be bound by his fate , someone who understands that Free Will is a gift most people are too afraid to use .
BEAT: Which , you see , is partly the point of all this .
DAVID: And all the misery , all the pain
THE CHAIRMAN: I sit up there and I watch it and it hurts me . but if you could see the incredible courage people show , the random acts of kindness , the love If you could see huitan eings choosing every moment every day to be better thAn '' I made them , you would know it 's all worthwhile .
BEAT: Good luck , David . And good luck to you , Elise . You 're a-beautiful dancer . And so much more
THE CHAIRMAN: Their case isclosed .
DAVID: Maybe we should go dancing . A smile slowly spreads across her face
SHOOTING SCRIPT: Revised Third Draft March 30 , 1983 Becherman/Canton-Richte
TODAY: THIRTY YEARS LATER
PERFECT TOMMY: Better see what 's keepin ' the boss , Reno .
RENO: Why me ?
NURSE: Rawhide , it 's for you .
RAWHIDE: I 'll ask him .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Another ten minutes down here , Rawhide .
TV ANCHORWOMAN: So where 's Buckaroo ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Whadda you need Buckaroo for ?
TV ANCHORWOMAN: Flying to Cambodia .
PERFECT TOMMY: Bet I do .
RAWHIDE: We help .
STAR SURGEON: What , like `` raise my left arm '' ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: There may not be a next time .
DR. ZWIBEL: A little . I can dance . Buckaroo glancing at the clock on the wall
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM: Three hundred miles an hour , General .
GENERAL CATBURD: Senator , you are so fulla shit .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Final contact is made .
GENERAL CATBURD: It 'll never work . It 's too simple .
PROF. HIKITA: Buckaroo , do you read ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: That 's a big `` no can do '' .
GENERAL CATBURD: Either that or he 's popped his cookies .
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM: Professor Hikita , what 'd he say ?
MISSION CONTROL: It 's off my scope !
GENERAL CATBURD: What the devil ? What is going on ? !
PROF. HIKITA: Banzai !
GENERAL CATBURD: This his frequency ? Nobody 's home .
PROF. HIKITA: Buckaroo ! Did you seem them ? Did you ?
GENERAL CATBURD: Creatures ?
PROF. HIKITA: Not for sale .
GENERAL CATBURD: I was n't talking to you , Hikita san .
PERFECT TOMMY: She 's not for sale , right , General ?
DOCTOR LIZARDO: The Overthruster ! The Overthruster !
PROF. HIKITA: Almost ready , Dr. Lizardoalmost
DOCTOR LIZARDO: More ! More !
PROF. HIKITA: Not so fast
RAWHIDE: Fivefourthreetwoone .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I 'm starvingsomebody , help .
RAWHIDE: Got a half a tuna sandwich .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Same one you had yesterday ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Figures . Anybody seen my scope ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Coming right up , Buckaroo .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Anybody we know ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Super performance organic material .
PROF. HIKITA: Yes , Perfect Tommy , in a way . However
PERFECT TOMMY: Buckaroo , you got a minute ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Not really . This is pretty important .
PERFECT TOMMY: She wants a picture .
RENO: You want it , Artie ? You got it .
PERFECT TOMMY: I look great . Let 's rock ' n ' roll .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I heard somebody crying .
PENNY PRIDDY: Herehere at the back . I 'm sorry
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Raise your handwhere ?
PENNY PRIDDY: This is so embarrassing
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Did you say '' Peggy '' ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: He offered you money ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Do I look like that kinda girl ?
PENNY PRIDDY: My name 's , Penny ! But who cares ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Everybody okay up here ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Pick those up , Reno .
RENO: I did n't drop 'em .
PERFECT TOMMY: It 's a spittin ' image .
RENO: Does n't look anything like her to me .
PERFECT TOMMY: Pictures do n't lie .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Then what ?
RAWHIDE: Vanished . Thin air .
PERFECT TOMMY: Doctor Lizardo . Was n't he on TV once ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Hey , so was Mr. Wizard .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Have you warned Professor Hikita ?
RAWHIDE: First thing I did .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: And his soul black as the Ace of Spades .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I 'm sure we 'll find out soon enough .
PERFECT TOMMY: Was n't me . I 'd take a hundred , right ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Sid , welcome aboard .
RENO: The name 's Reno . This here 's Perfect Tommy .
PERFECT TOMMY: Where do you hail from , Doc ?
DR. ZWIBEL: New Jersey !
RENO NEVADA: Where 's your spurs at ?
DR. ZWIBEL: You making fun of me ?
RENO: Why me ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Cause Buckaroo needs me here .
RENO: Follow me , pard'ner .
PENNY PRIDDY: Go away . Let me rot ?
PENNY PRIDDY: You . Like the papers all say .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Pretty terrible shot .
PENNY PRIDDY: Was she pretty ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Who ?
PENNY PRIDDY: The girl I remind you of .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: She was the Queen of the Netherlands .
PENNY PRIDDY: It 's kinda hard this way .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Wyoming ? Not Cody , by any chance ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: No , I do n't .
PENNY PRIDDY: Which ? The one in my throat .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Another 'you ' ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Running a little late , Buckaroo .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Let her out . In my custody .
PERFECT TOMMY: Let her out ? She 's a killer .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: No she 's not .
PROF. HIKITA: Rawhide tells me Dr. Lizardo escaped
PROF. HIKITA: One and the same .
PENNY PRIDDY: Hey , better there than here , huh ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: The president of what ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Buckaroo , do n't forget your thruster .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: You keep an eye on it .
PENNY PRIDDY: Any time .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Go back to the bus and reroute the call .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Pencil ! Quick ! Pen ! Anything !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: There ! Those two ! Do n't panic
RENO: Whadda you mean , Buckaroo ? Where ? What ?
SENATOR CUNNINGHAM: Arachtoids ?
JOHN BIGBOOT: Okay , wise guys !
EXHIBITOR: Hey , you ca n't ride that !
PERFECT TOMMY: Any sign of Buckaroo ?
RENO: No ! Ditto the professor-
RAWHIDE: Shit !
DUCK HUNTERS: My God ! What the hell
1ST HUNTER: It 's the latest issue !
JOHN O'CONNOR: What ? A black ship ? Where ?
JOHN GOMEZ: John Whorfinmaybe they know he 's escaped !
JOHN O'CONNOR: I have a radio fix
JOHN GOMEZ: Death to the enemy !
JOHN O'CONNOR: Death to the enemy ! Kill or die !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Rawhide . Come in . Over .
RAWHIDE: Buckaroo , somebody shanghaied the Professor !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: The deuce you say . That crate !
RAWHIDE: What crate ?
PENNY PRIDDY: How long you been riding with Buckaroo , Reno ?
PENNY PRIDDY: What 'd you do before ? Can I ask ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Where 's Buckaroo ? Is he alive ?
RENO: Course he 's alive . He 's Buckaroo Banzai . Rawhide calling from across the room
JOHN BIGBOOT: No thanks , I 'm driving .
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Hand me that tarp . Let 's cover this guy
2ND HUNTER: What guy ? He 's got paws .
JOHN GOMEZ: One of our birds .
JOHN BIGBOOT: The droid , you mean ?
JOHN GOMEZ: It 's a three-man thermopod
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Thermopod ? What 's a
JOHN BIGBOOT: Very T.S . Top Secret , right John Gomez ?
JOHN BIGBOOT: You called Buckaroo Banzai ?
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Not yet . I said I was gon na .
JOHN BIGBOOT: There 's a crowbar in the truck .
PROF. HIKITA: Buckaroo ! What the Sam Hill !
PROF. HIKITA: What ?
PROF. HIKITA: You can see them ?
PROF. HIKITA: It 's your hand , Buckaroo .
PROF. HIKITA: Antidote to what ? Whose disguises ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Arachtoids . From Planet Ten .
PROF. HIKITA: Planet 10 ?
PROF. HIKITA: Buckaroo , the formula
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Hurry ! Please .
PERFECT TOMMY: Done .
JOHN BIGBOOT: Open it !
CASPER LINDLEY: Say what ? !
NEW JERSEY: Trouble ?
PENNY PRIDDY: What 's his problem ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Better than him .
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: Whadda you think you 're doing ? Hey !
MRS. JOHNSON: Peggy ! ? Oh , wowno
RENO: She 's not Peggy , Mrs. Johnson
RAWHIDE: Any word from Buckaroo ?
MRS. JOHNSON: NoI thought he was with you guys
NEW JERSEY: So we 'll help . Let 's get crackin ' !
BILLY: Who 're you ?
HIGHWAY PATROLMAN: That 's it , gentlemen , you 're all under
VOICE: Easy , friend-
JOHN O'CONNOR: Buckaroo Banzai !
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Wow . You know it .
RAWHIDE: Try a new cipher . Try G .
BILLY: G cipher . There ! More like it !
NEW JERSEY: Nice work , kid .
PERFECT TOMMY: `` Space monsters '' my ass .
PENNY PRIDDY: What happened to her ? Mrs. Johnson biting her tongue
MRS. JOHNSON: You know any judo ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Any what ?
MRS. JOHNSON: Do n't worry , I wo n't hurt you .
PENNY PRIDDY: What 's up those stairs ?
BILLY: This is queerlook
NEW JERSEY: New Jersey ?
BILLY: Then that 's it !
RENO: What 's it ?
NEW JERSEY: Right ! Hoax my eye !
RENO: You mean ? No !
PINKY CARRUTHERS: Hi , buddy , what can I do for ya ?
JOHN PARKER: Buckaroo Banzai ?
PINKY CARRUTHERS: You a messenger ? What 've you got here ?
SUDDEN VOICE: That 's as far as you go , pal .
SAM: Okay , who 's the funny guy ?
JOHN O'CONNOR: Not here ! No Overthruster !
JOHN BIGBOOT: John Whorfin will kill us !
JOHN O'CONNOR: You look ! It 's not here !
JOHN GOMEZ: Professor Hikita !
MRS. JOHNSON: Buckaroo !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Is the professor here ? Where 's Penny ?
RENO: They 're arachtoids , Buckaroo , from Planet 10 !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: What ? How do you know that ?
RAWHIDE: It 's all on the record . Come on- Buckaroo heading up the stairs
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Orson Wells ? What about Doctor Lizardo ?
RAWHIDE: Faulty design . It sucked .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: It ? Who does ?
RENO: Stand back , man
MRS. JOHNSON: Oh , wow
MRS. JOHNSON: She 's not in her roomI looked .
RENO: God , if it 's not one thing it 's another .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: You wan na take the chance , Casper ?
CASPER LINDLEY: Not me . No way .
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Wow , you know it ! Buckaroo heading for the door
RENO: Where 're you goin ' ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: To get my guns .
PERFECT TOMMY: His guns ? Holy shit .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Open up or I 'll shoot it off .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Penny , look-
PENNY'S VOICE: You look . Who is she ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: She was killed , Penny .
PENNY PRIDDY: Oh , my .
PENNY PRIDDY: Looks like you 're the one might go to pieces .
PENNY PRIDDY: How did she die ? I wan na know .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: You do n't wan na know .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I wish he was . He 's real enough .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Never .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I got ta go . We 're on borrowed time .
PENNY PRIDDY: Go where ? Where 're you going ?
PENNY PRIDDY: What ? If we just believe in Buckaroo Banzai ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Believe in Penny Priddy ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Absolutely . Penny looks into his eyes
BUCKAROO BANZAI: It 's too dangerous .
PERFECT TOMMY: Buckaroo ! Sorry
BUCKAROO BANZAI: What is it , Tommy ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Stay here , I 'll be back .
PENNY PRIDDY: Sure . I wo n't hold my breath .
JOHN O'CONNOR: Nothing right now , Penny Priddy .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Dead . Damnit !
PERFECT TOMMY: Where 's the professor ?
RENO: Where 's Rawhide ?
CASPER: Who 'd do a thing like this ?
NEW JERSEY: Arachtoids .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Spread out . They ca n't be far .
RAWHIDE: Look out , Buckaroo !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: You okay ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Professor ! ?
PENNY PRIDDY: Buckaroo ! Rawhide ! Reno ? Anybody ?
RAWHIDE: You 're a welcome sight
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Just 'grazed ' you , huh ?
RAWHIDE: Apache ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Arachtoid .
RAWHIDE: So I was right . That 's nice to know
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Any antidote for these things ?
JOHN PARKER: No , none .
PERFECT TOMMY: That mean you 're on our side ?
RAWHIDE: We got ta stop 'em , Buckaroo .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: We will , old fried , we will .
RAWHIDE: Sure do pack a mean walloplet 's go
BUCKAROO BANZAI: There 's another one we owe 'em .
CASPER LINDLEY: They 're stealing my chopper ! The Cavaliers racing for the window
RENO: And they got Penny ! Look !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Do n't shoot !
PROF. HIKITA: She has the Overthruster !
JOHN PARKER: Then your planet is doomed .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: No ! We 'll get it back .
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: A what ?
PROF. HIKITA: Programmable !
PROF. HIKITA: Electric brainwashing .
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: Who the hell 's Penny Priddy ?
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: Good God The President picks up the phone
PERFECT TOMMY: It 's Whorfin , Buckaroo . Line 3 .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Whorfin ? Does he know we 're coming ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: `` Doctor '' ?
PENNY PRIDDY: I 'm not worth it , Buckaroo ! Forget me !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Penny ? ! Are you all right ?
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: We 've got no choice then . Call my wife .
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: I 'm glad someone has the balls to face facts !
GENERAL CATBURD: Hail Mary .
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: Larry , where 's my Football ?
MRS. JOHNSON: For the President ! From Buckaroo Banzai !
PERFECT TOMMY: Asshole probably got lost .
NEW JERSEY: Or nailed for speeding .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Let 's just fry those arachtoids .
PRESIDENT WIDMARK: Well that 's certainly food for thought .
DR. LIZARDO: Where are we going ? Tell me !
RED ARACHTOIDS: To Planet 10 !
DR. LIZARDO: When ?
RED ARACHTOIDS: Real soon ! Dr. Lizardo peers down at the hangar floor .
JOHN GOMEZ: Not here !
DOCTOR LIZARDO: WHERE IS THE OVERTHRUSTER !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I thought you had it !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: I 've got nothing but time .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: You bloody !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: The missing circuit 's in your head , Whorfin .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: John Emdall told me .
PERFECT TOMMY: Light precipitation . Partly cloudy tomorrow .
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Could I have your autograph , Mr. Parker ?
JOHN PARKER: You got it .
PROF. HIKITA: Ten minutes more . Buckaroo 's orders .
PERFECT TOMMY: Not on this bus , you 're not .
GUARD: It 's Bigboot .
JOHN PARKER: Under here , I think .
PERFECT TOMMY: Under where ? Hold on
JOHN PARKER: Do n't mention it .
PERFECT TOMMY: Then I wo n't .
JOHN PARKER: They sense us . Hurry .
DOCTOR LIZARDO: Stop him ! Get him !
JOHN BIGBOOT: That 's 'Bigboot ' .
JOHN O'CONNOR: But John Whorfin said kill her .
JOHN BIGBOOT: Damn John Whorfin !
JOHN PARKER: Look out , Buckaroo Banzai !
NEW JERSEY: Leave her to me . You take care of business .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Thanks .
DOCTOR LIZARDO: Sound the call to board ship !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: What is this thing ? A fighter ?
DOCTOR LIZARDO: Overthruster in place .
JOHN BIGBOOT: It wo n't work ! It wo n't !
DOCTOR LIZARDO: Shut up , John Bigboote , you coward !
JOHN BIGBOOT: No ! Please !
JOHN PARKER: We 're going down ! Onto the runway !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: The door 's locked .
SMALL VOICE: Another step , I 'll drink your blood !
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Get 'em up !
JOHN WHORFIN: One more word out of you , Bigboote
JOHN BIGTOOTE: Bigboot .
WHORFIN'S VOICE: Full speed ahead ! Battle stations !
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Tell them to stop . They 're your friends !
JOHN PARKER: I lack the authority , Buckaroo Banzai .
JOHN PARKER: Boy , I hope so , Buckaroo Banzai . John Parker trying a likely button .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Take the throttle , John Parker !
JOHN WHORFIN: Banzai ! I 'll see you in hell !
JOHN PARKER: Now , Buckaroo Banzai ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Now !
PROF. HIKITA: Emilio !
DOCTOR LIZARDO: Toichi ? I 'll be damned .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: All accounted for ? Where 's Penny ?
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Got a casualty list ?
PERFECT TOMMY: Hey , Scooter Lindley , fall in ! Scooter 's eyes lighting up as he runs over
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Is this what you 're looking for , Buckaroo ?
SCOOTER LINDLEY: Wow , you know it ! I 'll have to ask my dad .
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Well , go ahead , what 're you waiting for ? Scooter running off .
NEW JERSEY: I did all I could . I did my best
BUCKAROO BANZAI: Tell him yes on `` 1 '' and no on `` 2 '' .
PENNY PRIDDY: Buckarooyou look awful .
WADE: I 'm sorry for the screw-up . But I could n't help it it 's too late to go trick-or-treating now . I could n't help it I had to stop at Penny 's fo the costume . And you were hungry , emember .
JILL: Who 's fault is it then if it 's not yours ? You 're the one in charge , Daddy .
WADE: Yeah .
JILL: Look . Those kids are still trick-or- treating . They 're still out .
WADE: Those are the Hoyts .
JILL: I do n't care . They 're out .
WADE: Ca n't you see look out there . Nobody 's got their porch lights on anymore . It 's too late . Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble . See , they put shaving cream all ove that mailbox there . They chopped down Herb Crane 's new bushes . Little astards . Jesus H. Christ .
JILL: Why do they do that ?
WADE: Do what ?
JILL: You know .
WADE: Break stuff ?
JILL: Yeah . It 's stupid .
WADE: I guess they 're stupid .
JILL: Did you do that when you were a kid ?
WADE: Well , yeah . Sort of . Nothing really mean . Me and my pals , me and my others . It was kind of funny then . Stealing pumpkins , soaping windows . Stuff like that .
JILL: Was it funny ?
WADE: To us it was .
JILL: But it 's not funny now .
WADE: It 's not funny now . I 'm a cop and I got ta listen to all the complaints people make . I 'm not a kid anymore . You change .
JILL: I bet you did lots of bad things .
WADE: What are you talking about ?
JILL: I just think you used to be bad .
WADE: No . I did n't used to be bad . No sir . Where do you get this stuff ? From your mother ?
JILL: No . She does n't talk about you anymore .
LARIVIERE: We 're looking for the funniest costume ! And the scariest ! And the most imaginative ! And the best costume of all !
WADE: Got here just in time . Go ahead . Jump in line . Maybe you 'll win a prize .
JILL: I do n't want to .
WADE: Why ? Why not ? You know these kids from when you went to school here . It has n't been that long .
JILL: It 's not that .
WADE: What then ?
JILL: It 's stupid .
WADE: It 's fun .
JILL: I want to go home . I do n't like it here .
WADE: Oh , Jesus , come on , will you ? Do n't mess this up anymore than it 's already een messed up . Join the other kids . Do that and before you know it you 'll e as happy as a goddamned clam .
LARIVIERE: Wade ! And who 's that tiger ? Is that Jill ? Come and join us .
WADE: What are you boys up to ?
CHICK: Same old shit .
FRANKIE: You see the damage these little sons- of bitches been raising tonight ?
WADE: You 're going to have to move you pickup .
JACK: I know .
CHICK: Take a bite .
WADE: Do n't mind if I do .
JACK: LaRiviere 's having a hell of a time in there . Master of fucking ceremonies .
WADE: Where 's that gun you were bragging on today ?
JACK: No brag . Just fact .
WADE: Got you for 450 , 500 bucks ?
FRANKIE: Nice .
JACK: See you got Jill tonight . How 'd you manage that ?
WADE: Do n't forget to move your truck .
JILL: No .
WADE: No what ?
JILL: No I did n't see anybody I know . No I do n't want to go to school here tomorrow . I want to go home .
WADE: You are home . There are lots of kids you still know here .
JILL: I do n't want to be here . Do n't worry , I love you , Daddy , I do . But I want to go home .
WADE: Jesus . Listen , Jill , tell you what . Tomorrow morning , you still want to go home , I 'll drive you down . I 'll get off work or something .
JILL: I called Mommy .
WADE: What ? You called Mommy ? Just now ?
JILL: Yes .
WADE: Jesus , why ?
JILL: I because I want to go home . She said she 'd come and get me .
WADE: Come and get you ! Shit ! It 's a damn half hour drive each way . Why did n't you talk to me about it first ?
JILL: See , I knew you 'd be mad .
WADE: Yeah . Yeah , right , I 'm mad . What 'd you tell her , for Christ sake ?
JILL: I told her I wanted to come home . Daddy , do n't be mad at me .
WADE: Well , I guess I am . I planned this , I planned all this , you know . I mean , it 's sort of pathetic , but I planned it . You should n't have called you mother . C'mon , we 're gon na call her before she leaves .
JILL: Yes .
WADE: That 's all you got to say ? `` Yes '' .
JILL: Yes .
WADE: She wo n't be here for a half hour . Think you can stand it that long ?
JILL: Yes .
WADE: Where do you expect to wait for her ? Obviously downstairs with the othe kids is n't good enough .
JILL: That 's fine with me too . When Mommy comes , tell her I 'm up here . Wade Whitehouse stalks out .
WADE: I thought I told you to move that truck !
JACK: Relax , Chief . We 're leaving . You wan na toke ?
WADE: You got ta be more careful about that shit . Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they 'll expect me to bust you . And I 'll be outta a job .
JACK: Some job . Here , have a hit . Do n't be such a hardass . I know you got problems , but everybody 's got problems .
WADE: Not here .
JACK: Well , c'mon , then . Get in and we 'll take a little ride , my man .
WADE: Evan . He 's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts . You 're lucky .
JACK: Do n't know about lucky . The guy 's a full-blown asshole . Pay 's good , though . $ 100 a day . I got to guarantee a kill , of course . Which I can do . There 's some monster bucks hiding out up there .
WADE: How 'd you get the job ?
JACK: Gordon , he 's always got some angle working . He wants to keep Twombley happy , I 'm his boy . Wade grimaces as he passes the joint back .
HETTIE: What 's wrong with you ?
WADE: Toothache . You should get close to him . Make yourself irreplaceable . Guy 's loaded .
JACK: Like you and Gordon ?
WADE: Right . The sonofabitch could n't get along without me .
JACK: Yeah , he 'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him .
WADE: Right ! A car flashes past .
JACK: Bastard 's got his high beams on .
WADE: Shit .
HETTIE: What ?
WADE: My ex-wife Lillian and her husband . That was them in the Audi that just passed us .
JACK: Audi 's a good car .
HETTIE: What 's she up here for ?
WADE: Aw , shit , she 's here to get Jill . Me and Jill had a little argument . Jack , I got to get back , get back to town . Move this thing , will you ? See if you can get back to the Town Hall efore they get there , okay ?
JACK: Piece of fucking cake .
WADE: Lillian !
LILLIAN: Where 's Jill ?
WADE: Me and Jill , we just had a little spat . She felt kind of left out , I guess , from not knowing some of the new kids
LILLIAN: Where is she now ? Is she in the truck with your friends ? Jack and Hettie neck inside the cab .
WADE: She told me she wanted to wait fo you . Inside .
LILLIAN: While you went off for a few beers with your friends ? Is that Hettie Rodgers there , with whatzizname ?
WADE: Yeah .
LILLIAN: She 's grown up some , has n't she ?
WADE: Oh , Jesus , lay off , will you ? It looks like you 've won this fucking ound already , so lay off a little , for Christ 's sake .
HORNER: Wade . Nobody wants any trouble .
WADE: I do n't want her to go , Lillian .
LILLIAN: Do n't cause a scene . No one 's trying to win any 'rounds ' . Do n't make it any worse .
WADE: I 'm not making it any worse . You are . Me and Jill could 've worked this thing out . It 's normal , it 's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it . Believe it or not . How do you think this makes me look , treating her like some tragic victim or something ?
MARGIE: New hat ? Jill 's up , I see .
WADE: For a while .
MARGIE: How 's she doing ?
WADE: Okay . She 's fine .
MARGIE: You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party , give me a call , okay ? I 'm off . NICK WICKHAM , 45 , Marg 's boss , passes by
WICKHAM: Like hell you are . Tomorrow 's first day of deer season . I 'll need you at least in the morning .
MARGIE: Well , that 's that .
NICK: Take care , Wade .
WADE: You be careful of that little bastard . He 's dying to get in your pants , you know .
MARGIE: Do n't worry . I can protect my virtue . I mean , c'mon , Wade , give me a break .
WADE: See you tomorrow , maybe .
MARGIE: You okay ?
WADE: Yeah .
LARIVIERE: Watch this snow . It 's coming down tonight .
WADE: Lugene ? Wade . Hoya doin ? Look , I was wondering , with the snow and all , if you got school today ? How the hell do I know ? You 're the principal . All I 'm supposed to do is direct traffic from 7 30 to 8 30 . Yeah , okay , I 'm sorry I only just now saw it was snowing , that 's all . My whole day is fucked . I got ta plow all day . If I do n't get over to LaRiviere 's early enough , I 'm stuck with the grader . I was just hoping you 'd have called school off . You check the weather bureau ? Okay , I hear you . I 'll be over in a it .
TWOMBLEY: It 's not enough snow , not for tracking the bastards . No advantage there , kid .
JACK: Do n't worry , Mr. Twombley , I know where those suckers are . Rain o shine , snow or no snow . I know deer . We 'll kill us a buck today . Guaranteed . Before ten .
TWOMBLEY: Guaranteed , eh ?
JACK: Yep . Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles . The ucks are right behind them and we 're ight behind the bucks . This gun gets fired before ten o'clock . Whether it kills a deer o not is more less up to you . I 'll put you inside 30 , 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season . That 's what you 're paying me for , ai n't it ?
TWOMBLEY: Damn straight !
JACK: Done much shooting with that rifle yet ?
TWOMBLEY: Tell you what . You get me close to a ig buck by ten , kid , there 's anothe hundred bucks in it .
JACK: If you get it ?
TWOMBLEY: Yeah .
JACK: You might not kill it .
TWOMBLEY: You think so .
JACK: You might gut-shoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag . Ca n't guarantee that wo n't happen , especially with a new gun . I may have to shoot it .
TWOMBLEY: You take care of your end , kid , I 'll take care of mine .
JACK: Mmm .
TWOMBLEY: You understand what I 'm saying ? I want a deer , a dead one , not a cripple or whatthefuck .
JACK: I get it . No sweat . You 'll get yourself a dee and you 'll get him dead . And you 'll have him by coffee time .
TWOMBLEY: And you 'll get your extra hundred ucks .
JACK: Wonderful !
LUGENE: Are you okay , Wade ? What was wrong ? Why were you holding everyone up ?
WADE: Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW ? He could 've killed somebody .
LUGENE: Did you get his number ?
WADE: I know who it is .
LUGENE: Good . Who ?
WADE: Mel Gordon .
LUGENE: I still do n't understand
WADE: From Boston . Evan Twombley 's son-in- law he was driving . I know where they 're headed . Up the lake , Agaway . The old man 's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt , so they probably got some big weekend party planned . Wade sets his face , thinking .
JACK: Safety on ?
TWOMBLEY: I 'm okay .
JACK: Follow close . We 'll cross the next meadow . Jack finds a path , one eye on Twombley
TWOMBLEY: Yeah ?
JACK: Drafted by the Red Sox .
TWOMBLEY: You played for the Sox ?
JACK: Double A . New Britain .
TWOMBLEY: Oh .
JACK: Pitcher . `` Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton Fisk . ''
TWOMBLEY: Really .
JACK: They said .
TWOMBLEY: Hmm .
JACK: The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck , shit luck .
TWOMBLEY: What happened ?
JACK: Ruined my arm . Brought me along too fast . Why 'd it have to be my fucking arm , I used to think . Then I realized it had to be somebody 's fucking arm .
TWOMBLEY: Hey , Hewitt ! Slow the fuck down !
JACK: Safety on ?
TWOMBLEY: Yeah .
JACK: This way .
TWOMBLEY: Sun 's gettin high .
JACK: Deers have ears too .
LARIVIERE: Told you the snow was coming down . Take the grader .
WADE: Where 's the plow ?
LARIVIERE: Jimmy took it . Jack 's out hunting with Evan Twombley .
WADE: His son-in-law damn near killed me .
LARIVIERE: Huh ?
WADE: At the school crossing . In his BMW . Coulda hurt some kids . I 'm gon na ust his ass .
LARIVIERE: Do n't go playing policeman .
WADE: What am I a security guard ? You hired me , you and your Selectman friends .
LARIVIERE: You do n't want the extra police pay ?
WADE: I 'm not saying that .
LARIVIERE: Get the grader . Go out 29 past Toby 's . Do n't let Lillian get to you . She did n't belong here . That 's why she left .
WADE: Fuck you .
LARIVIERE: That 's what I love about a small town . You know everybody . Wade exits toward the blue grader .
JACK: Stay here , stand where I am .
TWOMBLEY: You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks .
JIMMY: How 's it goin ?
WADE: Cold . How you think ?
JIMMY: Sorry about that . Why 's it every year , come first snow , you get stuck with the grader ?
WADE: School . Traffic crossing . I got ta quit these things .
JIMMY: What we doing after ? Wells ? Do n't work too fast . Business the way it is , Gordon 's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year . He 's got too much money as it is . Why 's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times ?
LACOY: That was no pisser . I 'll tell you who was a pisser . Glen Whitehouse . There was a real pisser . He was mean normal , but when he drank it was like he burst on fire . Canadian Club . Always drank CC . One Christmas there 's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two oys stack it . Except it 's been out ack two months and it 's snowed and ained and froze so now the wood 's all iced in . He takes the boys . He was drunk , of course . Wade 's face as the story comes to life
POP: Move it ! Daylight in the swamps !
ROLFE: Pop , the kids are waiting for us .
WADE: Rolfe .
POP: A lesson in work and its rewards . You 'll thank me for this one day . Sally , turn off that TV !
WADE: Just do it .
POP: Atta-go .
ROLFE: Please , Pop . Let 's go back .
POP: What are you , a quitter ?
LACOY: Beats me . That 's all I heard . Wade would know more about it . Wade ! We were just talking about your Old Man . `` What are you , a quitter ! ''
WADE: Jesus , LaCoy , you got nothing bette to do than sit around and tell stories . Pity is , some college student will come some day and believe this shit cause you 're the only one dum enough to talk to him . Take care . Wade and Jimmy head out .
POP: That was some job .
ROLFE: We 'll work at it everyday , promise .
POP: I think we made the point .
WADE: You just needed a drink . Pop , swigging Canadian Club , turns
POP: What was that ? You got something to say , say it ! Say it !
WADE: Nothing .
POP: You no-good pup ! Rolfe runs from the room screaming , `` Mom ! ''
WADE: It do n't look right .
NICK: What ?
WADE: The sign . It looks like it 's spelled wrong or something .
NICK: Fuck . Wade Whitehouse . It 's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering . Whatever somebody does to improve things around here , you got ta find fault with it .
WADE: I 'm not finding fault . It 's a good idea , good for you , good for the town . Real modern too .
NICK: This town sucks .
WADE: Aw , c'mon , I was only saying there 's something wrong with `` Home Made Cooking '' , that 's all . The sign 's fine . What it says is wrong . Margie Fogg heads over , sits
MARGIE: Who needs it ? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for ? Nick goes back to work .
WADE: Yeah .
MARGIE: I 'm sorry about what I said .
WADE: Said what ?
MARGIE: About you and Jill and needing a third person . She went back to Lillian ?
WADE: Forget it .
MARGIE: I 'm sorry .
WADE: I 'm going to start one of those custody suits . I do n't give a fucking shit . You know ? Wade 's eyes well up .
MARGIE: You do n't mean that .
WADE: Yeah . I mean that .
MARGIE: No you do n't . You 're pissed , that 's all . You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian . You know ? Work it out with her , tell her how you feel . Lillian 's not out to get you .
WADE: The hell she is n't . Lillian 's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her . I 'm gon na hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing , this divorce thing , earranged . I 've been thinking about it a lot . It 's like she owns Jill o something . Nobody owns nobody , especially not kids . And I pay her .
NICK: Marg !
WADE: That goddamned woman . Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this . I 'm more than pissed , Margie . I 'm a whole lot more than pissed . I been that plenty and I know the difference . This is different .
NICK: Marg ! You got orders ! Wade and Margie stand . She wants to kiss him .
MARGIE: Call me .
WADE: Tonight . Let 's get together .
MARGIE: Okay . Wade meets Nick halfway to the door .
NICK: You talked to Jack ?
WADE: Not since last night . He took a guy hunting .
NICK: The fucker shot himself . Ker-bang ! That 's what it sounds like . Not on purpose . I assume accidental .
WADE: Jack ?
NICK: The other guy .
WADE: Where how 'd you hear that ?
NICK: CB . Little while ago . One of the oys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers . I figured you 'd know what really happened . The fucking guy kill himself ? This Twombley , who the fuck is he , anyhow ?
WADE: No , I I 've been out on the grade all morning . Twombley 's summer people . Massachusetts . Friend of Gordon 's . It was his idea for Jack to take him hunting . I got ta go . Margie steps over as Wade exits .
NICK: He do n't care for you .
MARGIE: Stop being jealous .
LARIVIERE: What 's the hurry ?
WADE: A hunting accident . Jack and Twombley .
LARIVIERE: Huh ?
WADE: I figured you already heard .
LARIVIERE: Twombley , Jesus . We got to get moving I got to get up there . How would I know ? C'mon , you drive . We 'll take my truck . They head for LaRiviere 's blue 4x4 Dodge .
WADE: Twombley 's shot . I heard that . Not Jack . He 's okay , I assume .
LARIVIERE: Fuck . You do n't know how bad o anything ?
WADE: You mean Twombley ?
LARIVIERE: Yes , Wade , I mean Twombley . Put out that cigarette . Fuck . Fuck . Fuck .
WADE: He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something . That 's what usually happens .
LARIVIERE: I shoulda sent you instead of Jack .
WADE: I wish you had . I 'd rather be dee hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader .
LARIVIERE: You ai n't the hunter Jack is . And he ca n't drive the grader worth shit .
WADE: Like hell .
LARIVIERE: That must 've been Twombley . Jesus . I et that was Twombley .
WADE: You want me to follow them to Littleton ?
LARIVIERE: Let 's get to the top and talk to Jack first . He 'll know what happened . He fucking better . If this coulda een avoided , I 'll put that kid 's ass in a sling .
JACK: You heard the news .
LARIVIERE: I hear Twombley got shot .
JACK: Yeah .
BROWN: Watch the dog , Wade . Takes a mind to , he 'll tear your fucking head off .
LARIVIERE: Bad ?
BROWN: Thirty-thirty at close range .
LARIVIERE: Jesus .
WADE: Will he make it ?
BROWN: D.O.A . Blew the bastard wide open . Had a hole in back you could put your head into . Pretty big hole in front too . You could 've put you fist into that one .
LARIVIERE: You see it ?
JACK: Nope . Heard it . We was n't far apart . I spotted this buck , then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone . I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was , deader ' n shit . Called it ight in .
LARIVIERE: This is gon na be one fucking mess to clean up . Twombley 's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend . Did n't you say you 'd seen him , Wade ?
WADE: I seen 'em . Near ran me over .
BROWN: You wan na tell 'em , Gordon ? You knew the old man .
LARIVIERE: What the fuck . My day 's already uined . Give me the keys . You can go back with Jack . You still got a shitload of plowing to do .
WADE: It ai n't done , if that 's what you mean .
LARIVIERE: Something bugging you ?
WADE: Yeah . A few things .
LARIVIERE: Well , right now we 're not too interested . Finish up what you got ta do , then you can get bugged on you own time . Brown walks off with shepherd .
JACK: Not exactly . I mean , he never paid me .
LARIVIERE: You 'll get your money . Do n't talk to any newspapers about this . Twombley 's a big deal down in Massachusetts , you know . Tell them your lawyer says you should n't comment .
JACK: Lawyer ? I do n't need no lawyer , do
LARIVIERE: No , of course not . Just say it , that 's all .
WADE: Where 'd Twombley get shot ?
JACK: In the chest .
WADE: No , I mean whereabouts .
JACK: A half mile in , along the old lumbe oad .
WADE: You bring him up yourself ? That 's a steep climb .
JACK: The ambulance guys lugged him up .
WADE: You stayed away ?
JACK: Yeah .
WADE: Where 'd you get the blood ?
JACK: What blood ?
WADE: On your sleeve .
JACK: Musta How 'd I know ? What 're you doing , playing cop ?
WADE: I got ta make a report to Fish and Game . I was just wondering , that 's all . What 'd he do , to shoot himself , I mean ?
JACK: Who the fuck knows ? Musta slipped o something . I just heard the gun go off .
WADE: I never seen a man shot before . Not even in the service . Must be something .
JACK: Well , I did n't actually see him do it . Like I said .
WADE: Sure you did .
JACK: What ?
WADE: Saw him do it ?
JACK: What the fuck you telling me , Wade ? I never seen the guy get shot , I told you that .
WADE: You musta seen him get shot . I know you did .
JACK: Let 's get the fuck outta here . You 're not making any sense , man .
WADE: There 's your old twenty-gauge , and that there 's the new Browning you was showing me last night . This must e Twombley 's gun . Brand new . Very fancy tooling . Probably fired one time . It 's a beautiful piece of work . But what the hell , Jack , I guess you deserve it . Right 's right .
JACK: Yeah .
WADE: Twombley sure as hell wo n't be shooting it again .
JACK: He sure as hell wo n't .
WADE: Rolfe .
MRS. GORDON: Who are you ?
WADE: I was I 'm Wade Whitehouse . I was wondering , is your husband here ?
MRS. GORDON: He 's asleep . We were up very late .
WADE: Well , yes , I 'm I want to say that I 'm real sorry about your father , Mrs. Twombley .
MRS. GORDON: Mrs. Gordon . Thank you .
WADE: Well , yeah , I suppose . Sure . I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon . I 'm the local police officer .
MRS. GORDON: Something about my father ?
WADE: Oh , no . No , it 's a it 's a traffic thing . No big deal .
MRS. GORDON: Ca n't it wait , then ?
MEL GORDON: Whitehouse . Next time , phone ahead .
WADE: How 's that ? Mel folds his arms . His wife goes inside .
MEL GORDON: I said , 'Next time , phone ahead . '
WADE: Jesus Christ . Mr. Gordon , when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons , I do n't call ahead for an appointment .
MEL GORDON: What the hell are you talking about ?
WADE: I 'm issuing you a ticket . Moving violation .
MEL GORDON: Moving violation ! I just got out of ed and you 're telling me you 're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket ? Now ? Are you nuts ? Is that it , Whitehouse ? You 're nuts ?
WADE: Yesterday morning , you passed a stopped school bus , which was flashing its lights , then you
MEL GORDON: Hold on !
WADE: Do n't ever put your hands on me , Mr. Gordon .
MEL GORDON: You 're talking about a goddamned ticket , from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of ecoming a traffic cop or something ?
WADE: Do n't give me a hard time , Mr. Gordon . I 'm just
MEL GORDON: Doing your fucking job . I know . I watch television too .
WADE: Yes . Here 's your ticket .
MEL GORDON: You get the hell out of my house now , asshole . And know this you are going to be a lucky asshole if I have n't got you fired before the day is out . I can do it with one phone call , and I 'm pissed enough to do it now !
MARGIE: Jack 's sort of sensitive , I guess . More than most . But he 'll be okay in a few weeks .
WADE: There 's something funny about that shooting . There 's lots funny about it , actually .
MARGIE: I heard he was drunk at Toby 's last night and got in a fight with Hettie . He drove off without her
WADE: I 'm sure , I 'm positive it did n't happen the way Jack says it did .
MARGIE: Jack 's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry . He used to be a sweet kid , but it 's like , when he found out he could n't play ball anymore , he changed . Now he 's like everyone else .
WADE: I 've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley , instead of Twombley shooting himself . I 've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose .
MARGIE: Wade ! How can you even think such a thing ? Why would Jack Hewitt do that , shoot Twombley on purpose ?
WADE: Money .
MARGIE: Jack does n't need money .
WADE: Everybody needs money . Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch son-in-law of his . People like that .
MARGIE: Jack would n't kill for it . Besides , who would pay him ?
WADE: Lots of people . Guy like Evan Twombley , Boston union official , probably got lots of people want to see him dead . The Government 's been investigating his links with the Mafia .
MARGIE: The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt ?
WADE: No , I just know Jack 's lying about what happened . He just seemed I know that kid , what he 's like inside . He 's a lot like I was at his age .
MARGIE: You would n't have done anything like that , shot someone for money .
WADE: No . Not for money . But , if somebody 'd given me half a damned excuse I was pretty fucked up , you know .
MARGIE: But not now .
WADE: I can see what you looked like as a kid .
MARGIE: You knew me as a kid .
WADE: Yeah , but never what you looked like . Not really . Never really studied your face , like now . I was neve able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now , this way .
MARGIE: What way ?
WADE: After making love . I like it . It 's nice to see that in a grown-up person .
MARGIE: It 's nice .
WADE: I 'm her father supposed to be , ut I 'm not able to . Yes . Yes , I am . It may be the only thing in my life I 've been so clear about wanting . Even if it takes a big fight .
MARGIE: Then I guess you have to .
WADE: There 's another thing I 've been thinking about . I do n't know how you feel about the idea , Margie , because we 've never talked about it . But I 've been thinking lately , I 've been thinking we should get married sometime . You and me .
MARGIE: Oh , Wade .
WADE: I 've been thinking about it , that 's all .
MARGIE: You 've been married twice
WADE: It was to the same woman . I was just a kid It 's not like a marriage proposal o anything , just a thought . Something for you and me to talk about and think about . You know ?
MARGIE: Alright . I 'll think about it .
WADE: Good . He kisses her . His jaw winces in pain .
POP: I 've got sons , Goddamnit , oh my God , have I got sons ! Wade ? Rolfe ? Elbourne ? You love me boys ? Do you love your Pop ? Of course you do !
SALLY: Glen , stop
POP: Oh , Jesus , Sally , you are such a Goddamned good person ! Capital G. You are so much better than I am , I who am no good at all , you who are a truly good person , like a fucking saint ! Beyond fucking com-pare .
SALLY: Do n't !
POP: You little prick !
SALLY: Glen , stop !
MARGIE: Did you tell them ? That we were coming ?
WADE: Do n't you think it 's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his parents ?
MARGIE: I know your parents .
WADE: I just want to pick up my divorce papers . For the lawyer . It wo n't take long .
MARGIE: Are you sure they 're home ? Did you call ?
WADE: The truck 's here . Looks like they 've stayed inside since the snow started .
MARGIE: Think they 're alright ?
WADE: Of course ! I would 've heard .
MARGIE: How ?
WADE: I do n't know for Christ 's sake !
POP: Sleeping .
WADE: You remember Margie Fogg ?
POP: From Wickham 's . Been a while . Like some coffee ?
WADE: How you and Ma doing ? Have n't seen you in town for a while .
POP: We 're alright . Your Ma 's sleeping . You want me to get her ?
WADE: Yeah . Pop goes to the bedroom .
POP: She 's coming .
MARGIE: Have you been heating the house ? Not just with the stove .
POP: There 's a furnace .
MARGIE: You 're not using it today ?
POP: It 's broke I guess . There 's an electric in the bedroom .
MARGIE: Maybe Wade should take a look at it . Your pipes 'll freeze . Wade , would you do that ?
WADE: Ma ? It 's Wade . Can I come in ?
POP: Coffee 's perked .
MARGIE: When did she die ?
POP: Is ? She 's dead then ?
WADE: Yeah .
POP: I checked on her . She had the electric heater . Cold do n't bother her as much as me . Which is why I give he the heater .
WADE: Is there something wrong with the phone ?
POP: In the living room .
WADE: Why did n't you call and have the furnace fixed ?
POP: Wade . I thought she was alright . Till this morning she was .
MARGIE: Can ?
POP: Makes me sad it was her . Instead of me . I shoulda froze .
WADE: Should n't we get this show on the oad , now that Rolfe 's here ?
ROLFE: What about Jill ? Is Lillian bringing her ?
MARGIE: They 'll be at the church and the cemetery . Wade opens the frig , takes out another beer
WADE: Anyone else want one ? Rolfe ?
ROLFE: No thanks . I do n't drink .
WADE: Yeah . I forgot .
LARIVIERE: How you holding up , Wade ?
WADE: I 'm fine , fine .
LARIVIERE: You Rolfe ? I remember you from high school . You 're a teacher now ? Harvard ?
ROLFE: B.U .
LARIVIERE: I have n't seen you around . I do n't suppose there 's much reason for you to come this way .
REV. DOUGHTY: Come , Glen , join us . Let 's kneel fo a moment of prayer before the service . Wade ? Rolfe ?
ROLFE: Well
WADE: This is nuts .
MARGIE: Wade .
REV. DOUGHTY: Dear Heavenly Father , Lord of Hosts , we come to Thee to beseech Thy lessings and commend to You the soul of our beloved wife and mother , Sally Whitehouse , to be one with You and walk with You
POP: goddamned hair on her head . He rises over LaRiviere , turns , exclaims
WADE: Pop ! Do n't do this now , Pop . Pop knocks back a drink as the others stand .
LARIVIERE: Maybe I 'll head on over to the church .
REV. DOUGHTY: This is a difficult time .
WADE: Listen , it 's no big deal , Pop .
POP: Come on , smart guy . Tell how it 's no ig deal . Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman 's head .
REV. DOUGHTY: Give up this demon .
POP: Go fuck yourself !
ROLFE: Wade , just leave it .
POP: Listen to your little brother . 'Wade , just leave it . ' Candy-asses . All of you . That 's what I 've got fo children . Candyasses . 'Wade , just leave it . ' Praise the Lord ! 'Just leave it ! '
WADE: If you ever touch her again , I 'll kill you . I swear it .
JILL: Dad .
WADE: I 'm glad you 're here . Can you stay for a while ? Lillian hesitates , shakes her head 'no . '
LILLIAN: No , not anymore . It 's too it 's too far .
WADE: We should talk .
LILLIAN: We 've done all our talking , Wade .
WADE: It 's just
LILLIAN: Let the past be . I 'm sorry about your mother . I liked her . You never know how much women like that suffer . It 's like they live their lives with the sound turned off and then they 're gone .
JILL: Mom .
LILLIAN: She has an ice-skating lesson at four .
JILL: I 'm taking ice-skating , Daddy !
WADE: Let 's dig out Pop 's truck before the skin of the snow freezes up .
ROLFE: What about Margie ?
WADE: What about her ?
ROLFE: Well , do you still plan to get married ?
WADE: Yeah . She 'll probably quit her jo and stay out here with Pop . We ca n't leave him alone here , he 'll set the damn place on fire . With Jill here a lot , it 'll be good to have Margie around . Things are going to change in that department , by the way . I got a custody lawyer in Concord . I 'm gon na see him tomorrow . All hell 's gon na break loose , but it 's worth it .
ROLFE: Anything new about the shooting ? Twombley ?
WADE: I guess it was an accident , like everybody thinks .
ROLFE: Want to know what I think happened ?
WADE: Find them everywhere .
ROLFE: I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct one .
WADE: Which is ?
ROLFE: That it was n't an accident .
WADE: Then who shot him ?
ROLFE: Well , your friend , I think . Jack Hewitt .
WADE: Motive . You got ta have a motive .
ROLFE: Money .
WADE: Who 'd pay him that kind of money ? Not the mob . They got their own guys . Specialists .
ROLFE: They would n't deal with a guy like Jack . Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead ?
WADE: I do n't know . You tell me .
ROLFE: Okay . It 's likely there are people in the union who do n't want Twombley to testify . They probably include his son-in-law who 's vice-president and will probably be the next president . I read that in the papers . What 's his name , Mel Gordon ?
WADE: Yeah , the guy with the BMW I told you about . I did , did n't I ?
ROLFE: Here 's my theory . Twombley , unaware of illegal union loans or whatever , starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out . Finds out his son-in-law is involved .
WADE: So Mel Gordon would n't want a professional hit . That 'd make the feds dig deeper . He wants an accident .
ROLFE: A hunting accident is perfect .
WADE: Shit , around here , you shoot somebody in the woods , you say it was an accident , you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted . Jack 's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ai n't got his dee yet and do n't want his license pulled .
ROLFE: Not particularly .
WADE: Right 's right , goddamnit ! Do n't you care what 's right ?
ROLFE: I care about what happened . The truth . I 'm a student of history , remember ?
WADE: Yeah .
ROLFE: I hate to disappoint you , but I do n't think it happened .
WADE: Of course it happened . Why would I lie about it ?
ROLFE: It may have happened , but not the way you said .
WADE: You think I would n't remember a thing like that ?
ROLFE: It was n't me . I was n't there , but I heard about it . When I heard about it , it was about Elbourne .
WADE: We 'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him .
ROLFE: And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft .
WADE: Well , I never heard that one .
ROLFE: I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop . I was a careful child and I became a careful adult , but at least I was n't afflicted by that man 's violence .
WADE: That 's what you think .
ROLFE: I got ta head back . It 's a long drive . They walk toward the house .
LARIVIERE: Put out that fucking cigarette ! Jack opens the truck ashtray .
WADE: Morning , Gordon .
JACK: I 'm fucking out of here .
WADE: Lawford ?
JACK: Out of this fucking job . This jo sucks . Working outside in the winte sucks .
WADE: Why do n't you quit now , you want out so bad ?
JACK: Open the door . We 're late .
WADE: I mean it you got enough money now . Head out for California . Surf 's up , Jack , and you 're digging wells in the snow .
JACK: What do you mean I got money ? I 'm as oke as you . Wade grins , goes to activate the door .
WADE: Looney Tunes , Jack . Fucking Looney Tunes !
MEL GORDON: The boss in ?
WADE: I screwed up the divorce . I agreed with everything she said . I wanted her to like me . I just want to be a good father .
HAND: It would help if you were married , if there was someone at home while you work .
WADE: I plan to . Soon .
HAND: How soon ?
WADE: This spring .
HAND: Good . It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your ex-wife . Sexual problems upsetting to the child .
WADE: It looks pretty hopeless , do n't it ?
HAND: No , not exactly . I 'll look at the divorce decree , see if we can get it edrawn . Interview your daughter . Jill , right ?
WADE: Yes .
HAND: Fine . I 'll need a $ 500 retainer . You can mail it .
WADE: Jesus . How much how much will the whole thing cost ?
HAND: Hard to say . If we go for custody , depositions , psychiatric evaluations , it could drag on . Ten or twelve thousand dollars . She could win on appeal . If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn , assuming they 're unduly restrictive , it would n't be more than twenty-five hundred .
WADE: Oh .
HAND: You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go fo the
WADE: Yeah . I know . The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her . I 'm not as dumb as I look . Whatever you say . I love my daughter . I 'll send you the five hundred .
LARIVIERE: You ever think of getting a new car , Wade ?
WADE: On what you pay me ?
LARIVIERE: Elaine ! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade 's car , fix the clutch .
WADE: What do I have to do for it ?
LARIVIERE: Nothing , Wade , I 've been thinking . You do n't get enough appreciation around here and it 's time we changed things a little .
WADE: I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning .
LARIVIERE: So ?
WADE: He say anything about the summons I tried to give him ? Sonofabitch would n't accept it .
LARIVIERE: Wade , that was n't smart . Going out ight after the man 's father-in-law shot himself . Let it go . Call it a favor to me .
WADE: You ? Why ?
LARIVIERE: Mel 's doing some business with me . It 's nice to do favors for people you do business with . He was in a hurry . No big deal .
WADE: That was before Twombley was shot . Before he knew .
LARIVIERE: What 's the difference ? Take my truck , take a rest stop worrying about Mel Gordon . Have you decided what to do with your old man 's place he going to stay there ?
WADE: Want to buy ?
LARIVIERE: Do n't light that in here . I 'm allergic .
WADE: I wo n't . You interested ?
LARIVIERE: Maybe .
WADE: You and Mel Gordon ?
LARIVIERE: Could be .
WADE: Always count on old Wade for a good screwing . Why should I always pay more , sell cheap ? Why should you guys make all the money . You and Mel and Jack . Right 's right . Wade pulls out Bic , lights cigarette .
LARIVIERE: Out ! Out ! Wade smiles , exits .
JACK: You crazy sonofabitch ! You 'll sink us both ! Get off the fucking ice ! Get off !
NICK: Your father 's in back , Wade . Marg had to babysit him . She moved in with you , huh ? What happened ?
POP: Ah , the prodigal son .
NICK: About fucking time .
POP: Look , got me a new job , second cook and bottle washer !
MARGIE: What happened ?
WADE: Jesus Christ , Pop , let 's go home . I got waylaid . Sorry .
POP: The fuck you got waylaid . You follow your prick around like it was you nose .
NICK: Can it , Whitehouse . Get him out of here . It was funny at first , but I 'm tired .
MARGIE: There 's clothes in the back . Wade 's old man talks as he dresses
POP: Let 's go home ? What home is that ? Your home ? My home ? Let 's have a talk about that . You 're fucking sly , Wade . Your mother 's dead so she ca n't make any excuses for you anymore ! You got ta deal with me ! No more suga tit , asshole . Wade , redressed , enters
WADE: Pop , for Christ 's sake !
POP: You think you can take me now ? Come on , try .
NICK: Marg , get out of this . Fast .
MARGIE: I ca n't . Marg drives off .
WADE: I wish you would die .
MARGIE: Stop it ! Stop it ! Just stop it !
WADE: Then you accidentally see your body , or your face , or whatever , and you do n't know who the hell it belongs to . Strange . It 's the business with the old man , I know , and how incredibly pissed I was at him , and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that , and the Goddamned truck going through the ice , not to mention Margie 's eing so upset one thing on top of another .
LARIVIERE: He 's on to us !
JACK: Shit ! What are we gon na do ?
LARIVIERE: Maybe I can buy him off . I got ta talk to Mel .
JACK: You ca n't buy Wade off .
LARIVIERE: We bought you .
JACK: That was me .
ALMA: Wade ! Come in ! Have a cup of coffee .
WADE: You got yourself a computer , Alma .
ALMA: Been putting my files into it . You take sugar and milk ?
WADE: No . Black .
ALMA: Are you alright , Wade ?
WADE: Yeah , sure . Why ? I got this damned tooth , I got a few things bugging me , like everybody else . But I 'm okay .
ALMA: Well , you look sad . Upset . I do n't mean to pry . I 'm sorry about you mother . It was a nice funeral .
WADE: Alma , I think there 's some dirty usiness going on in this town .
ALMA: Always has been .
WADE: This is maybe worse than you and I are used to . What I 'm talking about , I 'm talking about murder . Among other things .
ALMA: Who ?
WADE: Evan Twombley , the union boss who got shot . Somebody murdered him .
ALMA: Who ?
WADE: You know Jack Hewitt , the kid I work with ?
ALMA: Sometimes things are simpler than you think . Let me ask you a question .
WADE: You do n't believe me ?
ALMA: About Jack ? No . Have you checked out the tax bill on your father 's farm lately ?
WADE: I know he 's due for the last two years . I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in .
ALMA: Has anybody offered to buy it ?
WADE: As a mater of fact , yes . LaRiviere .
ALMA: This is all the real estate transactions in this town the last year . Most of it unused land . Most of it for little more than the back taxes owed . She punches again only three items .
WADE: What is the Northcountry Development Association ?
ALMA: I went down to Concord to check it out . The president is Mel Gordon . The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere . Those boys are uying up the mountain , Wade . $ 364,000 this year . I believe that 's out of LaRiviere 's league .
WADE: Twombley involved ?
ALMA: No .
WADE: He musta found out . They had to get id of him . And Jack 'll get blamed .
ALMA: All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman . In a year or two , you wo n't recognize this town .
WADE: You sneaky sonofabitch ! I 've got your number now , Gordon ! All these years I actually thought you were a decent man . Can you believe that ?
LARIVIERE: Wade , you 're done . Let me have the shop keys .
WADE: You two , do n't you get it ? He 's using you . You 're his slaves . Jesus Christ , Jack , do n't you see that ?
LARIVIERE: The key , Wade .
WADE: Yeah , you can have the key . It 's the key that 's kept me locked to you all these years . I give it to you with pleasure . Now I 'm free . See how easy it is , Jack ? All you got to do is give back what the man gave you , and you 're free of him . I 've got to call my brother .
CHICK: The good news is we have n't got to your car yet . The bad news
WADE: Just tell me when you 'll have it fixed .
CHICK: the bad news is there 's a problem with Gordon 's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night . Figured you 'd know something about that , Wade .
WADE: Yeah . I know about that .
CHICK: LaRiviere says he ai n't gon na pay for the fixin ' of your car . A couple hundred for the clutch . I got some more bad news . Wan na hear it ?
WADE: Tell me .
CHICK: Chub says you 're fired .
WADE: He ca n't fire me . LaRiviere already did that this morning .
CHICK: He 's a Selectman . The town . He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office . I 'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car . They 're town property .
WADE: What do you mean , you ca n't take me today ? I told you
MARGIE: What on earth is happening to you ? Why are you acting this way ?
WADE: It 's my tooth ! My fucking tooth ! I ca n't even think anymore because of it .
MARGIE: I heard you talking . You got fired this morning , did n't you ?
WADE: Look , that 's temporary , believe me . There 's so much shit gon na hit the fan the next few days , my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt wo n't matter a bit .
LILLIAN: Wait there . She 'll be right out . Is there snow on the ground up in Lawford ?
WADE: Yeah , lots .
LILLIAN: See . Get your boots .
WADE: Hi honey .
JILL: Hi .
LILLIAN: Have her back tomorrow night by six .
WADE: No problem . Look , I
LILLIAN: You make me sick . I ca n't believe you 've sunk so low .
WADE: Low as what ? What have I done ? It 's ad to want to see your own daughter ?
LILLIAN: You know what I 'm talking about . Fo what you 're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much . Love . You wo n't get away with it .
JILL: Are we going in this ?
WADE: Yeah . My car 's in the shop . This 'll e fine .
JILL: It 's pretty old .
WADE: It belongs to Pop .
JILL: Pop ?
WADE: Grandpa . My father . It 's his .
JILL: Oh .
WADE: How about a Big Mac ?
JILL: Mommy wo n't let me eat fast food . You know that . It 's bad for you .
WADE: C'mon , we can always sneak a Big Mac . And a cherry turnover . You favorite . What do you say ?
JILL: No .
WADE: What do you want , then ?
JILL: Nothing .
WADE: You ca n't have nothing , Jill . We need lunch . Mr. Pizza ?
JILL: Same thing , Daddy . Mommy says
WADE: I know what Mommy says . I 'm in charge today , though .
JILL: Okay . So we 'll get what you want . What do you want ? They stop for a light . Silence .
WADE: Nothing , I guess . I guess I can wait till we get home . Maybe we 'll stop y Wickham 's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford . That suit you ? You always like Wickham 's .
JILL: Okay .
WADE: Fine .
JILL: What are you sorry for ?
WADE: I do n't know . For the food business . I guess . I just thought , you know , we 'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy , like we used to .
JILL: I want to go home .
WADE: You ca n't .
JILL: That 's illegal , you know .
WADE: I know .
JILL: You 're a policeman .
WADE: Nope . Not anymore . I 'm nothing anymore .
JILL: Oh .
WADE: Jillie , you want a cheese grilled sandwich ?
NICK: It 's called a grilled cheese sandwich , you dub .
WADE: Jill , please , it 's alright . Nothing happened .
JILL: I want to go home .
WADE: Okay , let 's go home , then . They head for the door . Nick eases over
NICK: Wade , I got a message for you . Jack Hewitt , he 's looking for you . Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall .
WADE: His office . You mean my old office .
NICK: Well , I guess that 's what he said .
WADE: He got his deer yet ?
NICK: No , he 's out now . Somewhere on the mountain . I 'd stay away from him if I were you . He 's real pissed . Wade takes Jill 's hand , exits .
WADE: Going somewhere , Margie ?
MARGIE: I 'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that 's built up . For the rummage sale . And some things for the cleaners . And the laundromat .
WADE: Do n't lie to me . You 're leaving me , I can see that .
MARGIE: Do n't be silly . Hi , Jill .
WADE: Marg .
MARGIE: Leave me alone ! Leave me alone !
JILL: Leave her alone ! Leave her alone !
MARGIE: Get in .
JILL: I want to go home . Will you take me home ?
MARGIE: Yes .
POP: You ! By Christ , you I know you . Yeah , you goddamn sonofabitch , I know you . You 're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart !
WADE: You do n't know me . You do n't know me ! So fuck you . Fuck you .
POP: Nah-nah-naw ! You done done finally done it ! Like a man done it . Done it ight . I love you , you mean sonofabitch !
WADE: Love ! What the fuck do you know about love ?
POP: Love ! I 'm made of love !
WADE: Call it what you want .
POP: Everything you know is from me .
WADE: Yeah .
POP: Bang !
WADE: You and me .
POP: Where the Christ you going ? You sonofabitch , you leave my fucking truck where it is ! I need Give me the Goddamn keys ! I need to get me to town !
WADE: Crawl !
POP: Nothing in the fucking house to drink . Not a fucking thing . My house , my money , my truck stolen !
WADE: I do n't know you . My goddamn fathe and I do n't know you .
THE END: < /pre
FRED: Deacon ! What are you doing ? I was watching that .
DEACON: Come on , let 's go . We 're going to be late .
FRED: First , I go to Yale , then Harvard law , then when I 'm making a hundred grand a year , I 'll have a whole stable of hot chicks sitting around topless on my yacht . He smiles ears to ear , looking for approval .
MATT: Will that work ?
DEACON: You are a complete moron .
FRED: What ?
AMAZING GIRL: That test was sooo hard .
HOT GIRL: We 're going to be late . Are you coming ? Fred perks up .
FRED: What are you doing ?
MATT: All great directors start this way . I 'm documenting the essence of high school . Teenagers running to meet their destiny only to find it 's just home room . It 's very existential .
FRED: So 's my balls . See you later .
DEACON: Dirty Darla # 7 is a modern classic . This is grade-A porn , my friend . Worth a lot more than twenty dollars .
DORKY FRESHMAN: Sweet .
BIOLOGY TEACHER: the increase in the hormone testosterone causes certain physiological changes in the adolescent male
BEHIND DEACON: Two GUYS are whispering .
GUY 1: Did you hear about Rachael ?
GUY 2: No , what happened ?
GUY 1: John Baldwin nailed her .
DEACON: Are you talking about Rachael Unger ?
GUY 1: Yeah . It was at Richard Rosenblatt 's party . In the bathroom .
DEACON: You 're kidding .
RACHAEL: We 've been together for a year now , and I thought it was time to take ou elationship to the next level . Deacon is becoming very nervous .
DEACON: Now ?
RACHAEL: You 've been talking about this fo months .
DEACON: I did n't think you were listening to me .
RACHAEL: Do n't you want to ?
DEACON: Of course I do . But , I , um I do n't have anything She pulls out a condom .
RACHAEL: I do . But he 's still hesitating .
DEACON: I have a math test tomorrow .
FRED: Did you videotape it ?
MATT: Yeah . I took my camera to gym class with me .
FRED: You are the biggest moron I have eve known . Just then , Deacon comes up to them .
DEACON: Hey , guys . Here 's the money .
MATT: Something wrong ? Deacon lets out a deep breath .
DEACON: Yeah . I heard Rachael Unger did it with John Baldwin .
FRED: Well , you had your chance . I told you to seal that deal .
DEACON: Shut up , Fabio . I do n't see you sealing any deals .
FRED: I 'm biding my time .
DEACON: Whatever . It just was n't good timing .
FRED: It does n't get any better than that . You and Rachael were perfect for each other . And naked girls do n't just appear out of thin air . `` I have a math test tomorrow . ''
DEACON: Will you shut up already ? Look , I 've been thinking about this all day . We 're juniors now . Upperclassmen .
MATT: So ?
DEACON: So we have a responsibility to ourselves to start having fun and getting girls . This year is our year . There 's nothing holding us back any more .
FRED: That 's not going to be us this year , o next year , or any year , ever .
DEACON: Why not ? All we have to do is follow the simple lessons of Tony Montana in `` Sca Face . ''
MATT: Ooh . Good movie .
FRED: So , we 're going to become Cuban drug lords ?
DEACON: Listen , the porno pirating operation is inging in plenty of money . When I get my new car tonight for my birthday , we 'll have the power to go wherever we want . Then , there 's nothing stopping us from getting the girls .
JAKE: Bye , Sphincter !
FRED: Nothing 's going to change , Deacon . You 're still going to be the kid who shit his pants in fifth grade and no one will eve let you forget it .
DEACON: I had a stomach virus , asshole .
FRED: Oh , that 's just not fair . Fred adjusts himself .
MAIN AREA: right into
RUSS: Gotcha ! Fred SCREAMS .
FRED: Aaaaaahhhhhhhh !
RUSS: Come back here , you bastard !
DOLL: I 'm Candy . Let 's play dress-up . The crowd is now seriously disturbed .
MARK: Dude .
DEACON: And I signal exactly two hundred feet efore the turn . Rule 108-1 .
DMV TESTER: Great . Now after the right , I want you to parallel park in the open space . Deacon complies .
DEACON: I begin the parallel parking maneuver by pulling within three feet of the forward vehicle . I now shift into reverse while turning the wheel two revolutions clockwise The Tester rubs his brow .
EVERYONE: Surprise ! Deacon pretends to be surprised .
DEACON: Wow . This is great .
MATT: Were you surprised ?
DEACON: Yeah .
MATT: Really ?
DEACON: Really . I was .
ROGER: Happy birthday , Deacon . It 's Lois Lane # 2 . Be careful . It 's still in the wrapper .
DEACON: Thanks .
MR. LEWIS: Are you ready for the big present ?
DEACON: You mean there 's more ? Deacon can hardly contain his excitement .
MR. LEWIS: It 's in the garage . Come with us .
MRS. LEWIS: What ? That 's not what you wanted ?
DEACON: No , it is . It 's just
MAX: I 'll take it .
MRS. LEWIS: Max !
MR. LEWIS: We can exchange it if it 's not the right one .
DEACON: No , I just thought I thought you guys were buying me that car I wanted . Max snickers .
MRS. LEWIS: A car ? Why do you need a car ?
MR. LEWIS: You can ask permission to use our ca whenever you want , champ .
MRS. LEWIS: Like you know what anyone in this house eally wants .
DEACON: Now what are we going to do ?
FRED: At least you got this great party .
MATT: Actually , we were expecting a lot more people . Fred elbows him .
DEACON: You invited more people ?
FRED: Well , we did send out flyers to like three hundred people from school .
DEACON: And no one showed up ?
ROGER: I did . Deacon looks back at Roger .
DEACON: Great .
ROGER: Uh , guys . No one showed up because they 're all at Tom Cooperman 's house . He 's having a keg party .
FRED: What ? Why did n't I hear about this ? That shit 's not right .
ROGER: I heard it from Rahim . He beamed me the 411 in study hall . A beat . Deacon 's anger turns to action .
DEACON: Let 's go .
MATT: Why ?
FRED: Yeah . Tom Cooperman kicked me in the alls in third grade , and I swear there is still a footprint on my nutsack .
DEACON: Come on , guys . Can I just get one thing that I ask for on my goddamn birthday ?
MATT: He 's got a point .
FRED: Fine . Watch your balls .
COOP: Grommets !
DEACON: Hey , Coop . Can we come in ?
COOP: Sorry , son , that dog wo n't hunt . Y'all ai n't on the list .
DEACON: Coop . It 's my birthday today , so cut me some slack , all right ? Coop looks him over , then opens the door .
COOP: Well , pickle my turnips , why did n't you say so ? Happy birthday , friend .
ROGER: Little help ?
DEACON: Oh , my God . There 's Naomi .
FRED: She looks good .
DEACON: Yeah .
FRED: Your dignity ?
DEACON: She 's Rachael 's friend . It 's not like I do n't know her .
MATT: Ask her if she has any unusual hats . Girls like that . Deacon gives Matt a dirty look .
DEACON: Hey , Naomi .
NAOMI: Happy Birthday , Deacon .
DEACON: You remembered .
NAOMI: Well , I got this flyer and
DEACON: Oh , right . So where 's Jake ?
NAOMI: Like I care .
DEACON: So you two are n't going out any more ?
NAOMI: Duh .
JAKE: Whatever .
NAOMI: Whatever .
DEACON: No , that 's okay .
MARK: No , seriously . It 's cool .
KELLY: Come on , Deacon .
WENDY: Yeah . Come on .
DEACON: All right .
MARK: Dude , what are you doing ? Take off you clothes .
DEACON: What ?
WENDY: We 're skinny dipping , Deacon . He hesitates , not sure what to do .
DEACON: Oh . Okay . Sorry , I 'll just leave you guys alone then
KELLY: No , come on in . Join us .
JAKE: Freakin ? I ca n't see you . Maybe I need to turn on the LIGHTS .
DEACON: No , I did n't ! Give them back !
JAKE: Sphincter boy shit his pants !
DEACON: Hey , watch the nads !
COOP'S DAD: What the hell kind of sick shit is this ?
DEACON: You know how long it 's going to take to save up for a car selling porno tapes twenty bucks a pop ? Fred looks down .
FRED: There 's a small problem .
MATT: What ?
FRED: I got fired yesterday . Russ caught me and went berserk . Some sort of sting operation he 's been planning for months . I do n't know .
DEACON: You 're kidding me , right ? Tell me you 're kidding .
FRED: No . And now I have to work twice a week at my dad 's office . I told you this Scarface plan was stupid .
DEACON: Great . So now we 've got no girls , no car , and no money .
FRED: And no porn .
MATT: Tony Montana would be very disappointed . Deacon is once again
BIOLOGY TEACHER: Now turn your textbooks to chapter six , the Animal Kingdom . As you should know by now , biology is the study of life , in all its infinite varieties .
DORKY FRESHMAN: Is this some kind of extortion racket ? I 'll pay you double if you can get me something today .
DEACON: I 'm sorry . There 's nothing we can do fo a while . We do n't have anything new .
DORKY FRESHMAN: I 'm dying . I just need something .
DEACON: Hey , Naomi . What are you up to ?
NAOMI: Going home to cram for midterms .
DEACON: Oh . I could help you . I mean , if you needed any help .
NAOMI: That 's okay . I 'll be all right .
DEACON: She went to Paris with the French Club . We 're seeing other people .
JAKE: Oh , sure . Sorry about that Shit-pants . He looks at Naomi .
NAOMI: Whatever .
JAKE: Oops . Sorry .
DEACON: Look , mom . I need a car .
MRS. LEWIS: But I thought we agreed
DEACON: I need a car of my own .
MRS. LEWIS: Well , honey . A car is a lot of esponsibility .
DEACON: Jesus , Mom . I 'm seventeen now . I think I can handle it .
MRS. LEWIS: Well , it 's also a lot of money . I 'll tell you what . Maybe you can get an afte school job to earn money for a car . I 'll talk to your father . Deacon is stewing .
FRED: Goddamn it .
MATT: Your dad really knows his firewalls . Deacon bursts into the room .
FRED: Hey , asshole . Do n't just come barging in here . We could have been naked . Matt gives Fred a look .
DEACON: Shut up . I figured out how to get back on the Tony Montana track . So , I 'm at the zoo today
BIOLOGY TEACHER: People ! People ! Come quickly . Witness the miracle of nature at its most primal .
ROGER: A little help !
FRED: What ?
DEACON: Let 's make one .
MATT: One what ?
DEACON: A movie .
MATT: Great ! That 's perfect ! I 've already got an idea for a kind of sci-fi horro thing . It 's like `` The Shining '' meets `` The Jetsons . ''
DEACON: No , you moron . A porno film . Fred lights up .
FRED: Even better .
DEACON: And check this out . The best part of all , is I 've got an angle .
FRED: What kind of angle ?
DEACON: We can make pornos that cater to guys like us .
FRED: You mean virgins .
DEACON: Yes . Adult films made by virgins fo virgins .
MATT: With good cinematography .
FRED: And cute , nice girls . The kind you 'd want to take to dinner with your parents .
DEACON: Right . No shots of sweaty guys ' faces .
FRED: And nothing up the butt . They look at him .
MATT: These have to be nicely edited . We should shoot on super 16 and transfer to video .
DEACON: No , Matt . We 'll shoot it on your video camera . We 're not getting any expensive equipment .
FRED: How are we going to get the women to sta in the film ?
MATT: And the guys .
DEACON: I do n't know . We 'll surf the net . We 'll figure it out .
FRED: That was really funny . Deacon just looks at them , pissed .
DEACON: I 'm serious about this .
MATT: We ca n't make a porno movie .
FRED: Do you have any idea how much trouble we 'd get in ?
DEACON: Do you have any idea how much money we 'd make ? A beat .
MATT: Like how much ?
DEACON: Enough for a car . Enough for more camera shit . To take girls out . I do n't know . For whatever we want . Beat . Beat . Beat . They 're thinking about it .
FRED: What about the moral implications ?
DEACON: It 's a free market transaction between consenting adults . What 's the problem ?
FRED: We 're not adults .
MATT: He 's got a point , Deacon .
DEACON: Guys , tell me the truth . Have n't you eve wondered have n't you ever imagined what it would be like to make one ?
MATT: Not really . Deacon turns to Fred , who looks guilty .
FRED: Okay . Sure . I 've thought about it . I 've thought about shaving Principal Taggert 's ass , too . A look , then Deacon gets up to seal the deal .
DEACON: Look . This is an opportunity we should n't let slip away . If we make this movie , it could be the best year of our lives . We 'll go in boys and come out men . And at the end , we 'll have the money , the power , and the women . But you losers would ather play it safe . Well , I 'm not going to waste another minute . I 'm making this porno movie with or without you . And when I show up at school in my new set of wheels , and you two limp dicks are egging me for my sloppy seconds , I 'll just have to tell you , `` Sorry , guys . That ship has sailed . You blew it . '' Ringing silence .
MATT: That was a really good speech , Deacon .
DEACON: Thanks .
MATT: Did you work that out before ?
DEACON: No , Matt .
FRED: Okay So say we were to do this . What would we call our company ?
MATT: I 've got it . `` After School Special . '' They look at him . It 's perfect .
MIKE: That was good . Some good action .
VIC: I 've got a question for you Mike , and I want you to promise to be completely honest .
MIKE: Sure . Of course , Vic . Vic looks at him , vulnerable .
VIC: Do you think I 'm too fat ?
MIKE: Are you kidding ? The camera loves you .
VIC: Seriously ?
MIKE: Absolutely .
VIC: Thanks , man .
DARLA: Sure , Vic , lem me freshen up first .
VIC: Is he in there ? Mike nods , leading Vic through a door , into
FRED: We 've got to have two forms of i.d . to prove she 's over eighteen .
DEACON: How much money do we need ?
FRED: A first time porno actress makes only two fifty to five hundred bucks .
MATT: That 's it ? Does that include the sex ?
DEACON: Yes , Matt .
MATT: So how do we get women for this movie ?
FRED: We place an ad in the Cleveland X-Press for `` body models . '' That 's like some sort of code word in the industry .
MATT: Are we supposed to have sex with these women ?
DEACON: No , Matt . A NURSE walks in .
NURSE: Fred , your father wants you to take these urine samples down to the lab .
FRED: Okay . In a minute .
MATT: Let 's use Principal Taggert 's name .
FRED: Oh yeah , good idea . That 'll never come ack to haunt us .
DEACON: Then whose name should we use ?
GREITZER: I 'm Ronald Greitzer here for my 4 00 appointment .
RECEPTIONIST: Okay , Mr. Greitzer . I 'll let the docto know you 're here for your ectal exam . Have a seat .
DEACON: No way .
FRED: Why not ? It 's perfect . My dad 's got Mr. Greitzer 's signature on file , his credit card number , and his social security number A beat .
DEACON: And he 'll never find out ?
FRED: It 's not like we 're going to send him ou annual report . It 'll just be like an official name of record or something .
DEACON: Okay . Cool . The Nurse returns .
NURSE: And take these fecal and semen samples , too .
FRED: And we need porno names .
DEACON: What do you mean ?
FRED: It 's a basic rule of porno . All people affiliated with the production of an adult film have porno names so thei friends do n't recognize them .
MATT: Oh , you mean like `` Johnny Hardmember '' ?
FRED: Exactly . That 's a good one . I 'll be Balls McLongcock .
MATT: Ooh , I like it .
DEACON: Guys . Those kind of names are just fo the actors .
MATT: You 're just jealous that you do n't have a cool porno name like us .
DEACON: Okay , fine . Then I 'm Sam Slam . Sam Slam . The Back Door Man .
MATT: That name sucks .
FRED: You do n't get it , do you ? A porno name needs to be a very subtle thing .
DEACON: Sorry , Balls . I guess I 'm still new at this .
FRED: Matt , pick that up .
MR. LEWIS: And I 'm telling the guy , he 's got to use form ND-45 for a third-party beneficiary , ut Johnson 's got ta be the big man . `` We 've been using ND-90 for twenty-two years . '' But Johnson 's an idiot . He does n't know ND-90 does n't even exist anymore . Mom yawns . The phone rings and she gets it .
MRS. LEWIS: Hello ? Deacon , it 's for you . It 's a young lady named Palomina .
DEACON: Yeah . 345 Remson . That 's right . Great . Wednesday , three to five . Looking forward to working with you , too .
FRED: Sure , you can bring your dog . Oh . No , that 's okay . Better leave him home .
MATT: Thanks . You sound sexy , too .
FRED: I ca n't believe this is working .
MATT: When you have sex with a strange man , do you imagine it 's like your boyfriend o something ? She just looks at him .
DEACON: Take a seat please .
FRED: Hi , I 'm Balls McLongcock and this is Sam Slam .
CRACK WHORE: Tequila . You boys seem kind of young .
DEACON: Do n't worry . We 're old enough .
FRED: Tequila . Nice name . So , have you done any films before ?
CRACK WHORE: I been in some home movies . Stuff like that . Some pictures .
DEACON: Okay , then . I think we have what we need . We 'll call you . She 's confused .
CRACK WHORE: So you do n't want me to suck you two off ? They look at each other .
DEACON: No , I do n't think that will be necessary at this time .
FRED: Maybe later .
MATT: Maybe if we put another ad in and say we 're only looking for good looking models .
FRED: There 's got to be another way to recruit porno actresses .
DEACON: I say we make them from Hawaii .
MATT: Hawaii ?
DEACON: It 's perfect . Do you know what a Hawaii driver 's license looks like ?
MATT: No .
DEACON: Exactly .
FRED: But is n't it going to seem a little suspicious ? Like why are we in Cleveland ?
DEACON: Vacation . People from Cleveland vacation in Hawaii , where do you think people from Hawaii go ?
MATT: Aloha .
DEACON: Hey , mom . Can I borrow the car ?
MRS. LEWIS: I have to go to the video store later .
DEACON: But , mom . You said I could use the car , ut it 's never free .
MRS. LEWIS: All right , Deacon . I 'll walk to the store .
MAX: Where are you guys going ?
DEACON: Out .
MR. LEWIS: Why are you boys dressed like Don Ho ?
FRED: This is the new style , Mr. Lewis .
MAX: Yeah , for ass-wranglers .
MRS. LEWIS: Max !
FRED: Are we really going to do this ?
DEACON: Oh , yeah .
BOUNCER: I.d . 's .
DEACON: We 're on business , he 's on vacation . He hands the i.d . 's back .
BOUNCER: Well , `` tiki-alohi-noa-lohi . ''
DEACON: Sorry ?
BOUNCER: That 's Hawaiian for `` welcome . ''
FRED: Right . Of course . We just moved to Hawaii a few months ago . Have n't picked up the local lingo yet . They force smiles and wait for the answer
BOUNCER: Okay . Have a good time , guys .
FRED: Thanks ! The Bouncer closes the door on them . Busted .
DEACON: Look . We have to get into this strip bar .
MATT: The next two years of high school depend on it .
BOUNCER: How old are you guys ?
DEACON: Twenty-seven .
FRED: Thirty-five .
MATT: Sixteen . Fred smacks him .
BOUNCER: Sorry , guys . Then ,
DEACON: We 've got money .
COCKTAIL WAITRESS: What 'll you boys have ? Two drink minimum .
FRED: Huh ? Oh . I 'll have a scotch . Straight up . On the rocks .
MATT: I 'll have a seven and seven .
DEACON: Uh , same . She leaves .
MATT: I do n't know . But I heard that guy ove there order one and I like the way it sounds . Numerical .
DEACON: To After School Special .
MATT: It tastes like poison .
FRED: Okay ?
MATT: Cool .
FRED: Uh , not right now , thank you . I have to go to the bathroom .
MATT: You want mine ? She laughs .
DEACON: Actually , we 're filmmakers . We 're here looking for new talent .
ASHLEY: Hi , I 'm Ashley . You guys are filmmakers ?
MATT: Video actually . They wo n't let me shoot on film . Deacon pulls out his wad of cash .
DEACON: Look . We 're paying top dollar , hetero only , no anal , and we 're distributing through our web site .
ASHLEY: Are n't you kind of young ?
DEACON: Are n't you ? You know we 're going to need two forms of i.d . to prove you 're ove eighteen .
ASHLEY: I 'm eighteen . Do n't worry .
FRED: Then you 're hired .
MATT: Should n't we audition her first ?
ASHLEY: Do n't worry . You guys relax and have a few drinks . By the time the night 's over , you 'll know I 'm your girl .
VIC: Someone 's been recruiting new talent .
MIKE: Jimmy Rimmer says they 're from Hawaii .
VIC: Why the hell would someone from Hawaii come to Cleveland ?
MIKE: Vacation ? There 's the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame . Vic thinks it over .
VIC: That 's true . Vic regains his train of thought .
MIKE: Who you gon na shoot ? Vic 's bluff has been called . Reluctantly ,
VIC: I do n't know .
MIKE: Calm down , Vic . I do n't need you all agitated . You still got five films to star in today .
VIC: You 're right , Mikey . Mike takes the gun from Vic and puts it away .
MIKE: Do n't worry . I 'll find these guys and take care of it . Vic cheers up a bit .
VIC: You hungry ?
MIKE: Yeah , I could eat .
VIC: Grab some lunch ?
MIKE: Yeah , okay .
DEACON: What are you guys doing ?
FRED: We came up with a great idea . We 're going to presell the videos by posting the scripts on the website .
DEACON: Will that work ?
MATT: I do n't know . But it 's kind of fun . We just wrote this whole thing about the girls ' locker room .
FRED: One thing , though . If our motto is `` by virgins , for virgins , '' I was thinking we should put a picture of one of us on the web site to sort of sell the image .
MATT: You 're not putting my picture up there .
DEACON: It does n't really have to be one of us , though , does it ? He grabs the yearbook .
MRS. LEWIS: Deacon , look who 's here . Your friend , Jake . Jake enters , all smiles .
JAKE: Hi , guys . Fred quickly shuts off the monitor .
MRS. LEWIS: You kids have fun . And she leaves .
JAKE: What the hell 's going on , Sphincter ?
DEACON: What are you doing here ?
JAKE: I saw the strippers . And some crack whore named Saffron came over my house the other day looking for you guys .
FRED: We do n't know what you 're talking about . Jake takes some pages off the printer .
JAKE: What 's this ? `` Oh , my God . There 's a boy at the door looking at us naked in the shower . '' He flips a page .
DEACON: No .
FRED: Are you crazy ?
MATT: They 're not whores if we film them , you moron .
JAKE: You retards are making a porno movie ?
DEACON: You ca n't prove anything .
JAKE: Who 's the girl ?
MATT: A stripper . Her name 's Ashley .
JAKE: Who 's the guy ? A beat .
DEACON: No , that 's not a good idea .
JAKE: Why not ?
FRED: It 's a lot harder than it looks .
JAKE: You do n't think I can do it ? Trust me , I 've nailed enough girls .
DEACON: Forget it .
JAKE: Look , you little butt munch . I want to do this , and if you do n't let me , I 'll go and tell your mommy what kind of sick shit you 're doing . Jake looks him over .
MATT: So , um , I 'll be directing .
ASHLEY: Okay .
MATT: Okay . So I want you to play this very understated . It 's a very visceral scene , so it 's important not to play it too ove the top .
ASHLEY: Uh huh . Hey , did you guys shave or something ?
DEACON: Okay . I think we 're ready here .
MATT: Boom in position .
FRED: What ? Deacon pushes him over to position .
MATT: Ashley , get into position .
FRED: Are we actually going to do this ? They look over at Ashley . She 's waiting .
DEACON: I guess so . They return to position .
MATT: So , um , we 're starting with the masturbation and then Phillip , the yearbook editor , is going to surprise you .
ASHLEY: Okay .
MATT: And action .
ASHLEY: These yearbook photos of the Debate Clu are making me so hot . I ca n't help myself .
REVERSE ANGLE: FRED smiles ear to ear . DEACON gulps . MATT peers out from behind the camera .
DEACON: Close up .
MATT: What ?
DEACON: Close up .
MATT: Oh yeah . Right .
ASHLEY: What ? Did I so something wrong ? Matt is quivering .
MATT: Uh , no . You were great . I think I 've got what I need there . I want to set up fo Jake .
FRED: I need a bathroom break .
DEACON: Not now , Fred . Jake .
MATT: Action . Jake opens a makeshift door to the office .
JAKE: Oh , my God . What are you doing ?
ASHLEY: I could n't help myself . Please do n't tell the principal .
JAKE: Give me one good reason why I should n't .
MATT: Cut . Perfect . Okay , then . Let 's get to the , uh , sexual material .
DEACON: Jake , you okay ?
JAKE: Sure . No problem .
MATT: And ACTION !
JAKE: Okay . Still nothing .
DEACON: Come on , Jake . We 're filming .
JAKE: All right . Hang on a second .
FRED: My arm 's getting tired .
ASHLEY: So 's his .
MATT: Action
ASHLEY: That 's it ?
JAKE: Hey , it 's not hard yet .
ASHLEY: I can see that .
DEACON: Um , okay . Ashley , maybe you can help him out .
ASHLEY: Aaaahhhh !
MATT: Wait ! I 'm not set up for that shot !
FRED: Can I put down the boom ?
DEACON: Jake ? What 's happened ? Jake , humiliated , runs to put on his shorts .
JAKE: This has never happened before . She got me too excited .
ASHLEY: Me ? How did you without even getting hard first ?
JAKE: What do you want to hear ? I 've got a tiny pee-pee ? I 'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor ? Sometimes before I get a boner ? Okay ?
DEACON: Calm down , Jake . We can shoot this scene again . Just relax . We can splice it together .
MATT: We 'd have to do it like twenty times to get enough footage .
JAKE: I 'm out of here . And if you dickwads tell anybody about this , first I 'll kill you , and then I 'll bust you guys .
ASHLEY: Now what ?
MATT: Deacon . You do it .
DEACON: No way .
MATT: Come on . This is your big chance .
DEACON: No . You do it . A beat .
MATT: Fred .
FRED: What ?
MATT: Come on .
FRED: You .
MATT: I have to run the camera .
FRED: Oh , like you 're the only one who can do that .
MATT: Fine . I 'll do it . I 'll do it for the sake of the film . Hold this .
DEACON: Matt . Stop it .
MATT: No , I 'll do it .
FRED: Matt !
MATT: Fine with me .
DEACON: No . We can get someone else .
FRED: Who ?
REVEAL: Deacon , standing a little too close to him .
DEACON: Good issue . Beat .
MATT: And that guy had real screen presence , too .
COOP: Hey , dudes . The guys look at each other
FRED: Oh , I 've got it . What if the Math Team Captain is in detention for something
MATT: For fixing grades for a girl
FRED: Yeah , and the cheerleader is in there and she 's going to get grounded if she fails one more test As they talk , Fred types away .
INDIAN BOY: In a minute !
DEACON: Are you okay ?
NAOMI: Yeah . Thanks . I 'm so embarrassed . She pats at the stain .
DEACON: Really ? I did n't think you got embarrassed about anything .
NAOMI: Deacon , wait . Block me for a second while I change my shirt .
DEACON: What ?
NAOMI: Facing the other way .
DEACON: Oh .
NAOMI: I have n't seen you around here in a while .
DEACON: Yeah , I 'm working on this project at home .
NAOMI: Cool . You can turn around now .
DEACON: Really ?
NAOMI: Why not ?
DEACON: Okay . Cool . The bus HONKS for Deacon again .
MATT: Deacon , come quick .
DEACON: Matt , what 's wrong ?
FRED: Our site got linked by another bigge site . Someone must have seen our stories and liked them .
DEACON: And ?
MATT: We got a few more pre-orders and a ton of hits .
DEACON: How many ?
MATT: Guess .
DEACON: A thousand ?
FRED: Twelve thousand .
DEACON: Holy shit !
FRED: We need to hurry up and make this movie .
MATT: We should go over the schedule fo tomorrow . And make sure the script is eady . Deacon 's smile fades .
DEACON: Uh , I ca n't tonight guys .
FRED: Why ? Where are you going ?
DEACON: It 's this thing I have to go to .
MATT: Is it a travelling carnival ?
DEACON: No . Look , it 's this party Naomi invited me to .
MATT: Can we come ?
DEACON: Uh Okay . I guess that 's cool . An awkward beat .
MATT: We can just meet you there .
DEACON: Yeah . Okay . That 's cool . Look , it 's at Mark and J.T . Slistak 's house . I 'll see you guys there . I 've got to get back to class .
MATT: Later . Deacon walks back to the group .
FRED: We 're not really going to the party , you moron .
MATT: Why not ?
FRED: Because I said so . Matt starts getting agitated .
MATT: But we told Deacon I mean , we ca n't just not show up . What if Deacon is looking for us
FRED: All right . All right . Stop crying already . We 'll make an appearance .
MATT: Cool .
NAOMI: You know , Rachael 's coming back from Paris in a couple of weeks .
DEACON: So ?
NAOMI: So , are n't you even a little interested in seeing her ?
DEACON: No . There 's someone else I 'd rathe see
MATT: Hey , guys .
NAOMI: So what 's this project you guys are working on ?
FRED: We ca n't really talk about it .
NAOMI: What 's your problem , Jake ?
JAKE: What 's yours ? She storms away . Deacon follows her .
DEACON: What was that all about ?
NAOMI: He really pisses me off . Jake is such an asshole .
DEACON: Tell me about it .
NAOMI: When we were going out , he was so mean to me all the time . I think he 's compensating for his little dick that never even gets hard . Deacon chokes on his drink .
DEACON: Well at least you were smart enough to dump him . I mean , you deserve someone who will treat you I do n't know . Really well .
NAOMI: You know what you are ? Deacon gets a little nervous .
DEACON: I 've been wanting to do that for a long time .
NAOMI: So why did n't you ?
DEACON: Hey , where 's Coop ?
FRED: He was supposed to be here a half hou ago .
MATT: Maybe he got sucked into a black hole . He chuckles to himself .
DEACON: Good one , Spock . I ca n't understand why you 're not more popular with the ladies .
MATT: Look , we 're wasting time . Deacon , why do n't you just go in there ?
DEACON: Okay . Okay . All right already .
MATT: And action !
DEACON: And maybe I could throw in the sausage for free .
MATT: Fred , you get in there , too .
FRED: Are you sure ?
MATT: Yeah , it 'll be a great shot .
FRED: Hey .
DEACON: S'up ?
FRED: How 's it going ? Deacon shrugs .
DEACON: Yeah . They said there 's going to be a massive eruption next year . Fred starts laughing .
FRED: You said `` massive eruption . '' Deacon starts laughing , too .
MATT: Hey , quit the chatter .
FRED: Sorry .
MATT: Hey , why do n't you guys kiss ?
DEACON: What ?
MATT: You know . Make out with each other .
DEACON: What ?
FRED: All right .
DEACON: Wait . Why do you want us to kiss ?
MATT: More sausage please .
DEACON: Aaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhh !
COOP: What 's going on ?
ASHLEY: Deacon is talking about making out with Fred .
FRED: No way . I 'm holding the mike and that 's it .
COOP: I thought we were doing straight porn .
ASHLEY: If you guys want to do gay porn , you still have to pay me .
DEACON: Hang on . Relax . It was just this stupid dream I had .
MATT: You dreamed about making out with Fred ?
DEACON: No . Well , yes . And we were both having sex with you . But it was just a dream so let 's forget it .
MATT: It 's a `` special effect . '' If you want this film to look amateurish , you 're going to have to get someone else to do it .
DEACON: Okay . Relax .
FRED: Come on . Let 's do it already .
MATT: Action .
ASHLEY: This summer tent-pole event-movie is making me so scared .
COOP: Hide your head down here and I 'll tell you when it 's safe to come up .
FRED: How 's Naomi ?
DEACON: Fine .
FRED: Fire !
COOP: Unplug the light ! Deacon moves to unplug it .
MATT: Wait , it 's hot !
FRED: Run !
MATT: Quick , get the fire extinguisher !
DEACON: Where is it ?
MATT: Over there !
DEACON: It 's not working ! Matt thinks about it for a second .
MATT: Oh . Me and Fred used it when we wrote the foamy cat fight script last week .
DEACON: Large load .
MAX: Nice rack .
DEACON: Mom ! Dad ! What are you doing home ?
MRS. LEWIS: Max sprained his wrist at socce practice . What is going on here ?
MR. LEWIS: Well , I 'm sure there 's a reasonable explanation why there 's a naked girl in our kitchen . Right , Deacon ? Deacon is n't too sure .
MRS. LEWIS: Well
DEACON: I , uh Deacon 's mind is racing . Then ,
ASHLEY: I 'm Deacon 's girlfriend . Ashley .
DEACON: Yes , my girlfriend .
MRS. LEWIS: And what were you doing with your clothes off in my kitchen ?
ASHLEY: We were having a make out party .
MRS. LEWIS: Where are the other girls ?
DEACON: Their dates stood them up ?
COOP: Yeah . My date was n't feeling well .
FRED: Mine has mono . From too much making out . With me .
MRS. LEWIS: What 's that smell ?
MATT: We had a small fire , Mrs. Lewis . I tipped over a candle . It was to set the right mood .
MR. LEWIS: A fire ? Let me see the damage .
DEACON: Dad , do n't . Let me take responsibility . We 'll pay to have it fixed .
MR. LEWIS: Damn right you will .
MRS. LEWIS: Well , Ashley . I did n't know Deacon even had a girlfriend .
MR. LEWIS: Maybe you can join us for dinner tonight .
DEACON: I think Ashley 's busy tonight
ASHLEY: Okay . Oh , shit .
MRS. LEWIS: Okay , then .
MR. LEWIS: So get this . Johnson comes up to me today and he 's all like `` where 's the ND-90 's ? '' I 'm like , `` Johnson , they discontinued the ND-90 like six weeks ago . '' I 've been telling this guy
ASHLEY: Johnson sounds like a moron .
MR. LEWIS: Exactly !
MRS. LEWIS: So , Ashley . If I could ask you a personal question , exactly how old are you ?
ASHLEY: Nineteen . But I tell people eighteen . Deacon laughs nervously .
DEACON: Is n't that funny ? The doorbell rings .
FOYER: Deacon open the door . It 's Naomi .
DEACON: What are you doing here ?
NAOMI: I thought I 'd come by and surprise you . Maybe we could hang out in your bedroom .
DEACON: Now 's not a good time .
NAOMI: What 's wrong ?
DEACON: Nothing . Let 's talk later . He tries to close the door , but she stops it .
NAOMI: Hi , Mrs. Lewis . I 'm Naomi . I 'm Deacon 's girlfriend .
MRS. LEWIS: His girlfriend ?
MAX: Deacon has two girlfriends ?
DEACON: Shut up , Max !
NAOMI: What do you mean ? What 's going on ?
MAX: Deacon 's other girlfriend is having dinner with us .
DEACON: I can explain . Naomi walks into the kitchen with Max .
MAX: This is Deacon 's other girlfriend , Ashley .
MR. LEWIS: His other girlfriend ?
ASHLEY: Hi .
NAOMI: Oh , my God . How old are you , you slut ?
ASHLEY: Eighteen .
NAOMI: I thought you were a nice guy .
MRS. LEWIS: You need to have a talk with him . He could be having S-E-X .
MR. LEWIS: I need to give him a goddamn medal . What ?
FOYER: Deacon watches Naomi go . Ashley consoles him .
ASHLEY: Let her go .
DEACON: Are you insane ? I 've been fantasizing about Naomi Feldman since the seventh grade .
ASHLEY: Fantasy and reality are two different things , Deacon . Do n't fall in love with who you think she is . You have to be sure you love the real person .
DEACON: So what should I do ?
ASHLEY: Go after her then . Or do n't . Whatever .
NAOMI: She 's a porno actress in your porno film . She had to pretend to be your girlfriend ecause she ran upstairs naked when the light caused a fire . And you 've never had sex with her or even kissed her .
DEACON: Yeah , pretty much . He looks down .
NAOMI: Not necessarily . She looks at him with newfound interest .
DEACON: No , I do n't think that 's a good idea .
NAOMI: Why not ? I 'm curious . I 've never seen a porno movie actually being made .
DEACON: Matt and Fred will get really mad . We 're not supposed to tell anyone .
NAOMI: Tell them I 'm a creative consultant . For the female point of view .
DEACON: No offense , but the female point of view does n't really matter in these films . She looks at him , pouting .
MIKE: This After School Special shit is amazing . They 're getting a ton of hits off their stupid stories and they do n't even have any product .
VIC: Are you sure those are the guys from the Pretty Kitty ?
MIKE: It 's the same guys . Bingo . I just found out where they live .
VIC: Give me that address . I 'm gon na teach these assholes a little lesson about the adult film business .
MIKE: Vic ! He pops back in .
VIC: Oh , yeah . Thanks Mike .
MIKE: Let 's do this .
VIC: You Greitzer ?
GREITZER: Yes . That 's me .
VIC: Ronald J. Greitzer ?
GREITZER: Yes . That 's right . Then , a spark of understanding .
VIC: Oh , I get it . Brilliant . You 're not even a fuckin ' kid .
GREITZER: What are you doing ?
VIC: What am I doing ? I 'm retiring you from the porno business . Permanently . Understand ?
GREITZER: Yes . Yes . Please do n't hurt me .
VIC: No more sweet young pussy , no more hot school-girl fantasies , no more goddamn pornos `` for virgins by virgins . '' You got me ?
GREITZER'S WIFE: Please do n't hurt my husband !
VIC: Uh
GREITZER: I 'm sorry ! I 'll never rent them again ! It was only that one time my wife was at he sister 's ! Please ! I promise you !
GREITZER'S WIFE: You rented a dirty movie ? You told me it was Jakob the Liar !
GREITZER: What ? I should n't be entitled to a little joy in life ?
GREITZER'S WIFE: Now look at the trouble you 've brought to this house .
GREITZER: And I 'm supposed to know the Religious Right would come after me for renting an adult film ?
NAOMI: Five hundred dollars a night ?
ASHLEY: Yeah , but if you can break into films , like these ones , you can get featured dancing gigs and make ten times that much .
NAOMI: No way .
ASHLEY: Seriously . If these guys ever get thei act together .
FRED: What is she doing here ?
DEACON: Naomi is my girlfriend .
FRED: Jesus , Deacon . Did n't you see that Beatles documentary on the History Channel ? You 're pulling a Yoko Ono on us .
DEACON: What ?
FRED: Fine . Whatever . Let 's get started . I 'm sure she 'll be really helpful .
COOP: Oh , hey , Naomi .
NAOMI: Hey , Coop . Are you helping these guys , too ?
COOP: Sort of .
MATT: Okay , people . Places everybody . Let 's try to do this with a little heart , okay ? And action .
ASHLEY: This quadratic equation is so hard .
COOP: Well , maybe we should just stick to long division .
NAOMI: Wait a second . Cut . This is all wrong . She would n't be fantasizing about some geek .
MATT: He 's not a geek . He 's the Math Team Captain .
NAOMI: No , he should be really well-dressed , and maybe he 's a foreign exchange student from Portugal .
MATT: Um , and the director is the only one who 's allowed to say `` cut . ''
FRED: Who cares , Naomi ?
NAOMI: Deacon agrees with me , do n't you ? Matt and Fred look at Deacon .
COOP: Dudes , come on . My nuts are getting cold .
ASHLEY: I 'm out of here .
NAOMI: Shut up , Coop . This is important .
COOP: And my nuts are n't ?
DEACON: Are you okay ?
COOP: I 'm sorry , Ashley . She 's pissed , holding her nose .
ASHLEY: Look . This is ridiculous . Who does dress ehearsals for a porno shoot ?
MATT: Oh , sure . Why do n't we throw out the script while we 're at it and `` improvise . ''
ASHLEY: Guys , I appreciate the money . It 's nice to get paid for sitting around doing nothing , but this is n't helping my career . I 've got no footage for my reel . She packs up .
FRED: Where are you going ?
ASHLEY: Sorry . She leaves .
COOP: Ashley , wait . I 'm sorry . Ashley ! Then , he blurts out something unexpected
FRED: Now what are we going to do ? You `` girlfriend '' ruined everything .
DEACON: Coop 's the one that smacked her .
NAOMI: Besides , if you losers knew anything about women , we would n't have this problem .
FRED: Who asked you ?
NAOMI: I do n't have to take this .
ASHLEY: Mrs. Lewis !
MRS. LEWIS: What are you doing here ?
ASHLEY: I , um , I 'm I 'm going where you 're going .
MRS. LEWIS: To yoga class ?
ASHLEY: Yes . Exactly .
MRS. LEWIS: I have n't seen you in class before .
ASHLEY: It 's my first time .
MRS. LEWIS: Well , that 's great , Ashley . You 're really going to love it .
MRS. LEWIS: You 're quite flexible , Ashley .
ASHLEY: Yeah , people tell me that all the time . You know , I could teach you some of those moves . Mr. Lewis would love it .
MRS. LEWIS: Oh . Okay . Maybe later . Listen , Ashley . I want to ask you something personal . About you and Deacon .
ASHLEY: Uh huh .
MRS. LEWIS: You know Deacon is only seventeen .
ASHLEY: Uh huh .
MRS. LEWIS: Right . So I was just wondering . You know . If you and Deacon Well , if Deacon and you were
ASHLEY: Um , no .
MRS. LEWIS: Good . Good . That 's very good . She gives Ashley a warm little hug .
ASHLEY: Listen , Mrs. Lewis . You do n't have to worry about Deacon . He 's a good kid . If you just let him make his own mistakes in life , he 's going to turn out fine .
NAOMI: So , do you have anything ?
DEACON: Like what ?
NAOMI: You know . Protection .
DEACON: Oh . Oh yeah . Of course .
NAOMI: Do n't you want to ?
DEACON: Of course I do .
NAOMI: Then what 's the problem ?
DEACON: It 's my first time .
NAOMI: That 's okay . Just go slow .
DEACON: I do n't know . It was weird . Is it supposed to be so weird ?
ASHLEY: Of course it was weird . True love can only exist between two women . Deacon is stunned .
DEACON: Of course I do .
ASHLEY: Your heart is telling you that you do n't . And I think it 's time you start listening to your heart . Deacon still does n't get it .
VIC: Thanks , Dave .
DAVE: Vic .
MIKE: What did you just say ?
VIC: Did you say `` After School Special '' ?
DEACON: What are we doing here ?
NAOMI: What ? I thought you might want some new clothes .
DEACON: I do n't need any new clothes .
NAOMI: And guess what ? I booked facials for us at the Serenity Spa .
DEACON: Naomi . Wait . Stop . He stops her .
NAOMI: What 's wrong ?
DEACON: I have to meet up with Matt and Fred this afternoon . I already blew them off yesterday .
NAOMI: Deacon , you do n't have to hang out with those guys any more . Besides , you really need a facial . And I mean , I thought we could spend the day together . You know , after last night .
DEACON: But what about Matt and Fred ?
NAOMI: Well what about me ?
DEACON: What 's going on ? Are we going to find another girl ? What ?
FRED: Matt and I have been talking .
DEACON: Yeah . About what ?
MATT: We want to make this movie .
DEACON: I know . I do , too .
FRED: No , Deacon . We want to make the movie we wrote . We want to make it without you .
DEACON: Okay . I know what this is about , guys . I 'm sorry about Naomi .
FRED: That 's not the problem , Deacon .
DEACON: Then what is it ?
FRED: I thought this was about us having fun and doing something crazy together . But as soon as you got what you wanted , you lew us off .
DEACON: You do n't understand . Fred cuts to the chase .
FRED: Do you even like her ? Deacon is about to tell them . Then ,
DEACON: Fine . Go ahead without me .
FRED: Fine . Matt and Fred get up and leave .
MRS. LEWIS: So , Deacon . How 'd you think you did on your midterms ?
DEACON: Fine .
MAX: I found a dead bird on the soccer field . Its head was missing .
MR. LEWIS: I have to go back to the office tonight . Johnson screwed the pooch again .
MRS. LEWIS: Whatever .
BOUNCER: Enjoy .
PLANTAIN: Ash , you ready ? You 're up now .
MR. LEWIS: Hello , naughty school girl whom I 've never met before .
ASHLEY: You , too , are someone whose kitchen I 've never been in .
MRS. LEWIS: You get everything done at work ?
MR. LEWIS: Yeah . All set .
MRS. LEWIS: Oh , guess who I ran into ? Deacon 's girlfriend , Ashley .
MR. LEWIS: Where did you see Ashley ?
MRS. LEWIS: Over on Industrial Way .
MR. LEWIS: You were on Industrial ?
MRS. LEWIS: You know , she is so flexible . It 's really amazing some of the positions that girl can twist herself into .
MR. LEWIS: What ? ! ?
MRS. LEWIS: She even offered to teach me . So I could move like that .
MR. LEWIS: Yeah , that would be great ! I mean , if you 're into that .
MRS. LEWIS: Maybe . I like her . I know she 's a little older , but I think she 's good for Deacon .
MR. LEWIS: You do ?
FRED: So , what did you want to talk to us about ?
DEACON: I wanted to say I 'm sorry .
FRED: For what ?
DEACON: For blowing you guys off .
MATT: That 's okay , Deacon .
DEACON: No , it 's not . It 's just sometimes I feel like the whole world is passing us by and we 're just sitting still . I do n't know . Anyway , I 'm sorry .
FRED: You know , you can be a real dick sometimes .
DEACON: Naomi and I did it the other night .
MATT: No way !
FRED: You 're kidding , right ?
DEACON: No , it 's true .
FRED: How was it ?
DEACON: Good . At first . But then I kept thinking about all the pornos . Trying to hit the ight spots , positions . I do n't know . After a while it kind of seemed like work .
MATT: I find that extremely difficult to elieve . Deacon laughs .
FRED: So what now ? Do we make this thing ?
DEACON: I do n't know . Maybe we should just call it quits .
ASHLEY: I need you .
FRED: What ?
ASHLEY: I need you to make this movie . For my eel .
DEACON: Well , actually we were
ASHLEY: Ooh , look . An eyelash .
HAIRDRESSER: So , I 'm thinking about getting into films .
ROGER: Okay .
HAIRDRESSER: You have any tips on how to break in ?
ROGER: Uh , no . Not really . Acting classes , I guess .
HAIRDRESSER: Really ? I did n't think there was a lot of acting in those films . Roger is confused .
ROGER: Well , I guess it kind of depends .
HAIRDRESSER: You think you could get me an audition ?
ROGER: For what ?
HAIRDRESSER: Come on . How long have I been cutting your hair ?
ROGER: Since I was like eight .
HAIRDRESSER: I know who you are . Do n't worry . You secret 's safe . Come on . I just want to make one film to see what it 's like . Roger is still totally clueless .
ROGER: That 's great . But how can I help you ?
HAIRDRESSER: Oh , I get it . You help me , I have to help you . That 's how it works . Okay .
ROGER: What 're you Oh , God !
COOP: No , no , it 's a municipal bond fund .
ASHLEY: But what about the capital gains ?
COOP: Sure there 's short term capital gains , ut the dividends are tax free .
PLANTAIN: State and federal ? Deacon enters with Matt and Fred .
ASHLEY: Hey , guys . I hope you do n't mind , Plantain and Baxter want to be in the movie , too .
BOUNCER: Hey ! Mr. Runningbear ! Matt smiles meekly as we
ASHLEY: Ira , I have something important to tell you .
COOP: What is it ?
ASHLEY: This prom is making me so hot . I 'm ready to lose my virginity to you tonight .
PLANTAIN: My dress is ruined !
BOUNCER: I 'm so sorry , Miss Jorgensen . What are we going to do ?
ASHLEY: That was the best prom ever .
COOP: You can say that again .
SCREEN,: MATT Cut . That 's a wrap .
DEACON: Rachael ?
RACHAEL: Hi , how are you ?
DEACON: Good . Good . How was France ?
RACHAEL: It was so fun . We just got back yesterday . The school totally screwed up my class schedule .
DEACON: So , how 's John Baldwin ? Rachael goes white .
RACHAEL: Who told you about that ?
DEACON: Everybody knows .
RACHAEL: Well everybody is a liar . I never did it with John Baldwin . Deacon is stunned .
DEACON: You did n't ?
RACHAEL: Jesus , Deacon . I do n't even know him . It 's not like it was with us . It hits Deacon like a ton of bricks .
FRED: So ?
DEACON: How does it look ?
MATT: It looks great . It 's the best porno film I 've ever made .
FRED: So what 's the problem ?
DEACON: Are you done with it ?
MATT: Well , I cut together some footage to give to Ashley for her reel , but I do n't think I can finish this film .
FRED: Why not ?
MATT: I ca n't even watch it . Every time I turn it on , I keep thinking about that tuna fish sandwich and Coop farting all day long .
DEACON: That was pretty gross .
MATT: That 's just it . The movie looks great , ut seeing everything else all the disgusting , nasty stuff that 's what 's taken all the fun out of it . And I just do n't want to do it any more .
FRED: Great . I knew it . I knew you could n't handle this . Matt looks away .
DEACON: Take it easy , Fred .
FRED: No , I knew that when it came down to it , Matt would wuss out . Matt snaps .
MATT: You know what ? Fuck you , Fred . You 're the wuss here . At least I do n't have to whack off every time I see a girl in the hallway . Fred shoves Matt .
FRED: Shut up , Matt . Matt stands up and gets in Fred 's face .
MATT: No , you shut up ! For once in your life , e a man and admit this movie was a mistake .
FRED: Why do n't you make me ?
DEACON: No . Matt 's right . This movie was a mistake .
FRED: What are you talking about ? This whole thing was your idea .
DEACON: Come on , Fred . Did n't you think this movie was going to be I do n't know , sexy ?
FRED: How long have you guys known about the athroom thing ? Deacon laughs .
MATT: If you did n't like making the movie , why did n't you say something ?
FRED: I do n't know . I thought you guys were having fun . I did n't want to be the wuss . A beat .
DEACON: The Aerostar 's not so bad .
FRED: What about the money and the power and the women ? What about Tony Montana ?
MATT: Scar Face is just a stupid movie , Fred . Fred smiles .
ASHLEY: Hey , guys . Great party .
DEACON: Thanks .
ASHLEY: I 've got some big news . I sent the reel to Vivid and they want to fly me and Coop to L.A. to talk about a contract .
MATT: Wow . That 's great , Ashley .
DEACON: Congratulations . Deacon hugs her .
FRED: Hey , Ashley . Can I ask you a question ?
ASHLEY: Sure .
FRED: Do you think me and Matt will ever get girlfriends ?
ASHLEY: Are you kidding ? Come on , guys . You have it made . You 're smart , funny , fun to be with . In a couple of years , girls will be dying to meet men like you .
MATT: Really ?
ASHLEY: Well , no . Popular , good looking guys always get the girls . Hey , what was I supposed to say ?
ROGER: Hey , guys . Great party .
COOP: Hey , you 're not on the list , dude .
PLANTAIN: Coop !
COOP: Plantain .
PLANTAIN: Come on . You do n't need to wait in this line . Deacon and the guys are already inside .
WENDY: I ca n't believe Naomi dumped Jake fo Deacon Lewis . Ashley stops .
ASHLEY: Let me tell you something about Deacon . That boy is amazing in bed .
KELLY: And you are ?
ASHLEY: Ashley . Deacon 's ex .
WENDY: Seriously ?
ASHLEY: Seriously . Have your boyfriends eve given you an orgasm ?
WENDY: No .
KELLY: I think so . No .
ASHLEY: Have you ever felt so completely satisfied in bed that you just wanted to sleep for a week ?
KELLY: So , are Deacon 's friends seeing anybody ?
ASHLEY: Matt and Fred ? I do n't think so . But if you 're interested , you better move fast . Those guys know how to do this thing
DEACON: I do n't know . Good , I guess .
ASHLEY: I thought she was your fantasy girl .
DEACON: Yeah . She was .
ASHLEY: You 're gon na dump her .
DEACON: I do n't want to . I do n't know . It 's not like it was when I was with Rachael . Rachael and I used to talk about stuff . We just , I do n't know , connected .
ASHLEY: Very good , Deacon . Deacon is confused .
DEACON: What do you mean ?
ASHLEY: Oh , nothing . I guess I 'm just glad that you finally figured it out . A moment of realization .
DEACON: Yeah , I guess I did . So I have to do this , do n't I ?
ASHLEY: I guess . Or not . Whatever .
DEACON: There 's something I want to talk to you about .
NAOMI: What ?
DEACON: I 've been thinking . Maybe we should see other people .
NAOMI: What ?
DEACON: Well , I mean , we do n't really have anything in common . And we do n't really even get along .
NAOMI: You 're breaking up with me ? Can we still have sex ?
DEACON: Listen to what I 'm saying , Naomi .
NAOMI: The only reason I went out with you was ecause I thought you were a nice guy . And now you 're breaking up with me ?
DEACON: Yeah . I guess so .
NAOMI: If you tell anybody about this I have a reputation .
DEACON: I wo n't . You can tell people you dumped me if you want .
NAOMI: Really ?
DEACON: Sure . What do I care ?
NAOMI: You see ? You are a nice guy . She kisses him on the cheek .
DEACON: Just do n't tell anyone about the movies . All right ? She smiles .
JAKE: Oh , really , skidmarks ? I know someone who will believe me . Your parents .
DEACON: The web site is in someone else 's name . All our records are encrypted . There 's no tracing it to us , jerk off .
JAKE: Oh , really ? Well , good thing I took the tape of Ashley masturbating in you asement . When they see that , they 'll see what kind of movies their perfect little Deacon is making .
DEACON: Did you make a copy of it ?
JAKE: No .
DEACON: You sent the original tape to my parents ?
JAKE: Yup .
NAOMI: You know , Jake , you 're a real dick !
DEACON: Jesus .
MATT: You should probably avoid pissing he off .
DEACON: Noted . Guys . We 've got a problem .
FRED: Thanks .
VIC: Too bad you 're not going to be able to use it any more .
DEACON: Who the hell are you ?
VIC: The competition . And who the hell are you , coming into my town , paying girls double what I 'm paying them ? This stupid After School Special shit is cutting into my business . So now I 'm putting you out of business .
MATT: Please do n't kill us , Mr. Porno Man .
VIC: Relax . We 're not going to kill you .
MIKE: We 're going to cut your balls off .
FRED: What ? ! ?
VIC: Start with him .
FRED: Why me ? It was all Deacon 's idea !
DEACON: FRED ! VIC Okay . Do the leader kid .
MIKE: Quit squirming . It hurts a lot more if you struggle . Vic starts undoing Deacon 's belt .
DEACON: Wait ! Wait ! Wait !
VIC: Come on , kid . Take it like a man .
MATT: We 've got pre-orders ! Mike stops and looks back at Vic .
VIC: What did you say ?
MATT: We pre-sold copies of our video .
VIC: How many ? Fifty ? A hundred ?
MATT: No . Sixty-three thousand , two hundred twelve .
VIC: What ?
MIKE: That 's a lot of product , Vic .
FRED: We 've got orders from all over the world .
DEACON: We 'll give you the website if you let us go .
VIC: Okay , so what 's your cut ?
DEACON: Nothing .
FRED: Except
DEACON: What except ? There 's no except !
FRED: Except you promise to supply us with quality porn free of charge .
MATT: And
DEACON: No , Matt !
MATT: And you have to maintain the artistic vision of After School Special .
VIC: And what 's that ?
MATT: The key is to try and remember what it was like before you had sex . What did you used to fantasize about ? A math teache who bends over a little too far . The doo to the girls ' locker room open just a sliver . Going over to visit your friend and catching his mother coming out of the shower .
FRED: Dude ?
MATT: Not you . Deacon 's mom .
FRED: Oh yeah . I 've been there .
DEACON: Guys !
VIC: Okay . We 've got a deal , but you got ta give me all your master tapes . And kid . If you ever need a job , give me a call .
MATT: It 's been a pleasure doing business with you , Mr .
VIC: Ramalot . Vic Ramalot .
FRED: Good name .
VIC: Thanks .
MR. LEWIS: Did you go through the mail today ?
MRS. LEWIS: Not yet . I 'll go get it . She gets up to get the mail .
FRED: Hurry !
DEACON: It 's a minivan ! It ca n't go that fast !
MR. LEWIS: Looking for something in the mail , Deacon ?
DEACON: No , I just
MR. LEWIS: Maybe something you 'd rather not have us see . Deacon goes white .
DEACON: Mom , Dad
MRS. LEWIS: It 's too late , Deacon .
DEACON: Wait
MRS. LEWIS: We just want you to know how deeply disappointed we are in you .
DEACON: I can explain .
MR. LEWIS: Explain ? Explain ?
DEACON: If you 'll just give me a chance
MR. LEWIS: How are you going to explain this ? He holds up the REPORT CARD .
MRS. LEWIS: How did you manage to get a `` C '' in iology ?
MR. LEWIS: Let alone two
DEACON: Is that what this is about ? My biology class ? It 's just a stupid midterm grade .
MR. LEWIS: I do n't like your tone , mister .
DEACON: Mom , Dad . I 'm seventeen now . I 'm driving . I 've got a girlfriend . Well , actually , we oke up . But you guys treat me like a kid . Is it too much to ask for to be a normal teenager with a normal life ?
MRS. LEWIS: You broke up with Ashley ?
DEACON: No . Naomi . Look . I just want to have fun with my friends , okay ? They look him over . Finally ,
MR. LEWIS: Okay , then . Just make sure you do n't epeat this performance on your finals .
DEACON: I wo n't .
MAX: Pretty much everything . Mr. Slam . Max hands him a piece of paper .
DEACON: Done . Did you know all along ?
MAX: Are you kidding ? Who do you think made the first pre-order ?
FRED: I 'm really nervous . DEACON puts his arm around his shoulders .
DEACON: My advice is to go slow . If you feel you 're losing control , just try to relax . Do n't worry . It 's easier than it looks . PULL BACK to reveal we 're in
MR. LEWIS: What do you think ?
DEACON: This is for me ?
MR. LEWIS: Are you crazy ? It 's for me . You want a new car , you get an after school job .
MRS. LEWIS: But we are letting you have the Aerostar . It may not be `` cool , '' but it 'll get you where you 're going .
DEACON: Thanks , guys . Really .
MRS. LEWIS: We 're going away for the weekend . You father surprised me !
MATT: It 's not even in focus . This is really shoddy work . Deacon takes it back from him .
FRED: Too bad we burned the film . You could have submitted it as your sample .
MATT: Good idea , Balls . The guys start laughing .
FRED: So , I guess we all got what we deserved . No money , no power , no women .
MATT: Tony Montana would be pissed . Just then , Rachael spots them and walks over .
DEACON: Speak for yourself , guys .
RACHAEL: Hey , guys . Deacon .
WENDY: Hey , guys . Hey , Deacon . I heard Naomi oke up with you .
DEACON: Yeah . But I think it worked out bette this way .
WENDY: Hey , Fred . I hear you know a thing or two about giving women pleasure .
FRED: No , I do n't .
WENDY: We should go out some time . Kelly looks at Matt seductively .
KELLY: Maybe all four of us could go out .
MATT: That could work , you know , depending on my schedule .
WENDY: Cool . So call me .
JAKE: Watch where you 're going , sphincter boy .
DEACON: I thought I told you not to call me that anymore .
JAKE: What are you going to do about it ?
DEACON: Some people never learn .
JAKE: I 've got a tiny pee-pee ? I 'm a premature e-jac-u-la-tor ?
MATT: You probably should n't have mailed that tape back to us .
DEACON: You know , guys , I 've been thinking about something .
FRED: What 's that ?
DEACON: About how making the movie did n't turn out to be so fun . I think I figured out why . They stop at their lockers .
FRED: Deep .
MATT: I think he 's got something there . Making that movie felt like we were tampering with forces we could n't possibly understand .
DEACON: Exactly . The fun part about high school is unravelling the mystery of what 's going to happen next .
END CREDITS: FADE IN
MR. LEWIS: Why do they always have to show the guy 's face ?
MRS. LEWIS: To make you think you can get girls as hot as her . It 's a basic rule of porno . A long beat .
MR. LEWIS: Hey . Is n't that our basement ?
PAUL: What 's wrong ?
ANNA: Nothing .
SIGHS WEARILY: You used to enjoy it . Now it 's
PAUL: it 's like fucking a corpse .
ANNA: It 's not about us .
ELIOT: The Antique Carlisle . Solid cherry . Hand rubbed satin finish . Tufted sovereign interior . Eternal-Rest adjustable mattress with matching pillow . He gestures to a metal casket .
MRS. AYRES: The Antique Carlisle . Definitely the Antique Carlisle .
ELIOT: Excellent choice . Mrs. Ayres caresses the soft velvet trimming .
MRS. AYRES: An antique coffin for an antique lady . We suit each other .
SMILES: You 'll look beautiful .
BEAT: Now about the service . Would you like a private visitation ? Mrs. Ayres is miles away .
ELIOT: Mrs. Ayres ?
MRS. AYRES: I 'm sorry . Yes . A private visitation .
HESITATES: Mr. Deane ? What happens when we die ?
ELIOT: It 's different every time . Each person dies in their own way .
TALL KID: Hey . Jack-off !
ACNE KID: He must be deaf .
TALL KID: You deaf Jack-off ?
ANNA: What 's going on ? She glances at the Older Boys then at Jack .
JACK: Nothing Miss Bryant .
ANNA: Nothing ? The incubator did n't just fall by itself .
JACK: I tripped . It was an accident .
ANNA: Show 's over . Get to your classes .
TO JACK: Jack . Help me clear up .
JACK: I think it 's dead .
ANNA: No . The poor thing 's just scared .
PAUL: OK. Who took the last pepperoni ? A PREPPY GUY slides across another pizza box .
NEAL: Oh that 's just disgusting .
PREPPY GUY: What 's wrong with vegetarian pizza ? It 's healthy .
NEAL: Pizza is n't supposed to be healthy .
PAUL: Yeah . With wheatgrass and alfalfa sprouts . Everyone laughs .
MUTTERS: Yeah . Yeah . Smart asses .
PAUL: Hi baby . I 'm really sorry about this morning . I fucked up . I know .
FILTERED: We still on for tonight ?
BEAT: Anna ?
ANNA: I do n't know Paul .
PAUL: Please Anna . It took me weeks to get the table .
FILTERED: Maybe we can change it to Thursday
PAUL: No . It has to be tonight .
FILTERED: Paul ? What 's the matter ?
PAUL: Nothing . Do n't worry . I just need I just want us to have dinner tonight .
FILTERED: Great .
PAUL: And Anna . Everything 's going to be fine .
FILTERED: Promise ?
PAUL: I promise .
NERVOUSLY: Hello ?
ANNA: Is someone there ?
JACK: Did I scare you Miss Bryant ? Jack moves over to the door .
ANNA: It 's locked .
JACK: My mom 's picking me up .
BEAT: It 's my birthday . We 're going to MacDonald 's . Then on Saturday my mom 's taking me to Busch Gardens . We 're going to ride the Alpengeist .
EARNESTLY: Continually voted one of the top ten rolle coaster rides in America , the Alpengeist is a breathtaking avalanche of adventure .
ANNA: I did n't know the park was open yet .
JACK: My mom 's friends with the manager . They 're opening it specially for me . She knows he 's lying again . Smiles sadly .
ANNA: Sounds like fun .
JACK: Yes . It will be fun .
ANNA: Jack . Those boys . Do they bother you a lot ? Jack hesitates . Then slowly nods his head .
JACK: Where are you going ?
HESITATES: I have to go to a funeral . My old piano teacher .
JACK: Can I come ?
ANNA: No Jack . Funerals are very private affairs .
JACK: I 've never been to a funeral .
ANNA: It would n't be appropriate Jack . Anyway would n't your mom worry about you ?
SHRUGS: Not really .
ANNA: I 'm sure she would . I 'll see you tomorrow in class . Have a wonderful irthday .
ANNA: Yes Mother .
BEATRICE: Terrible color .
ANNA: Can I get you something to eat ?
BEATRICE: I 'm not hungry .
ANNA: You have to eat .
BEATRICE: I do n't have to do anything .
ANNA: The doctor said
BEATRICE: The doctor 's an idiot . He does n't know what he 's talking about .
ANNA: What have I done wrong this time ?
BEATRICE: You 've forgotten have n't you ?
ANNA: No I have n't forgotten . The service is n't till six .
BEATRICE: Then you 've got plenty of time to wash it out .
ANNA: It 's permanent . You ca n't wash it out .
BEATRICE: Then dye it back . You ca n't show up at the funeral looking like that . Like some prostitute .
ANNA: I do n't look
BEATRICE: Do n't argue with me . Why are you constantly arguing with me ? Anna bites her tongue . Heads to the door .
ANNA: To do the washing up .
BEATRICE: The sheets need changing . They have n't een changed in months .
ANNA: I changed them Monday .
BEATRICE: You were n't here Monday . You never sleep at home anymore . What if something happened to me in the middle of the night ?
ANNA: Nothing is going to happen to you .
SNORTS: Fat lot of good she is . I would n't have to pay for a Nurse if my only daughte was n't living in sin with that lawyer of hers . Doing God knows what . They always leave you in the end . You 'll see . Just like your father
ANNA: That 's enough Mother !
BEATRICE: That 's it . Go and cry to Paul .
FATHER GRAHAM: We have entrusted our brother James Hutton to God 's mercy in sure and
MRS. HUTTON: White roses . They were his favorite . How did you know ?
ELIOT: They just seemed appropriate somehow .
MRS. HUTTON: He looks so peaceful . As if he 's only sleeping .
ANNA: Mrs. Hutton . I 'm so sorry .
MRS. HUTTON: Thank you Anna . You were always his favorite student .
ANNA: Fine . She sends her condolences .
MRS. HUTTON: You look tired dear .
ANNA: No . I 'm fine . Everything 's fine .
PAUL: You scared the life out of me .
ANNA: You do n't like it .
PAUL: I did n't say that . It 's just very ed . I mean it 's not really you is it ?
WAITER: Are you ready to order ?
PAUL: Yes . We 'll have the duck .
ANNA: Paul .
PAUL: What ? You always have the duck here .
ANNA: I do n't always have the duck .
PAUL: The duck is very good .
SMILES QUESTIONINGLY: What 's the special occasion ?
PAUL: Actually there is something I need to talk to you about . Now Anna 's nervous .
NERVOUS: well I 've been thinking . Maybe it 's time for us to Paul pauses as he reaches inside his jacket .
ANNA: You 're going to leave me .
PAUL: Anna wait .
ANNA: Why did you lie to me ? You promised everything was going to be OK .
INCREASINGLY FRUSTRATED: Do n't be ridiculous . Anna . You 've got it all wrong .
ANNA: I 'm not being ridiculous . Why do you always talk to me like I 'm a small child ?
PAUL: Anna .
ANNA: See ? There you go again . Do you know how irritating that is ?
LOSES IT: Jesus . Ca n't we just have one fucking meal without arguing
ANNA: Fuck you !
PAUL: Keep your voice down , everyone 's watching .
PAUL: You 're crazy . You know that ? Just like your mother .
ANNA: I 'm nothing like my mother !
STANDS: I 'm not running after you this time Anna .
ANNA: Good .
PAUL: Anna . Open the door . Please . I want you to come with me . I want to
ANNA: Shit !
MUTTERING: Jerk .
ANNA: Paul ? You home yet ? Can you pick up ? I just do n't want it to end like this .
ELIOT: You 're in a funeral home .
BEAT: You 're dead .
ELIOT: You had a car accident . It was raining . You hit a truck loaded with metal pipes .
ANNA: I 'm not dead .
ELIOT: You were pronounced dead eight hours ago . Your blood no longer circulates through your body . Your brain cells are slowly dying . Your body 's already decomposing .
ANNA: I 'm not dead .
ON DOCUMENT: It 's Anna 's death certificate .
ELIOT: You were dead on arrival . The attending physician signed here at 9.45 last night . I picked up you ody from the hospital morgue at 12.10 this morning .
ANNA: Who are you ?
ELIOT: I 'm preparing your body . You have to look beautiful for your funeral .
ANNA: I 'm not dead .
ELIOT: You all say the same thing .
BEAT: I 'm sorry . Maybe you should rest now .
SOFTLY: I ca n't be dead . It 's just a nightmare . I 'll wake up soon . Wake up .
ANNA: Paul ? You home yet ? Can you pick up ? I just do n't want it to end like this .
ASSISTANT: It 's the schoolteacher 's . From the ca crash . Should I answer it ?
OLD GUY: How many times do I have to tell you ? You ca n't leave their stuff laying around . It should 've been returned to the family .
ASSISTANT: I 've been busy , OK .
MUTTERING: Like she 's really going to need he ollover minutes now .
ASSISTANT: What shall I do with this ?
OLD GUY: Where 's the other one ?
ON PHONE: You got it all wrong baby . I want you to come to Chicago with me . Look . I 'll swing by your place on my way to the office . You know I love you .
PAUL: Anna !
TEACHER: the shell grows slowly
PAUL: Oh hi . I 'm looking for Anna Bryant .
INDIGNANT: I 'm sorry but you just ca n't
PAUL: I 'm Anna 's fiance . Paul Conran . I thought this was her class .
HESITATES: She did n't come in today .
PAUL: Did she call in sick ?
TEACHER: She has n't called in at all . It 's not like her . She always calls in . Paul 's worried now . Something 's wrong .
ANNA: Please do n't hurt me .
SMILES: How can I hurt you ? You 're already dead .
ANNA: But I 'm not dead .
ELIOT: Then why are you here ?
ANNA: Please . Just let me go . I wo n't go to the police . I wo n't tell anyone .
ELIOT: You 're still in denial . You have to trust me . I 'm only here to help you .
ANNA: What are you doing ?
ELIOT: This will relax your muscles . Stop the igor mortis setting in so I can work on your body .
TO HIMSELF: Your mother 's early .
ELIOT: I 'm so very sorry Mrs. Bryant . It 's always so tragic when you lose a child .
BEATRICE: I lost her years ago .
ELIOT: If you 'd care to come to my office we can discuss the arrangements .
BEATRICE: I want to see her .
ELIOT: But she has n't been
BEATRICE: I do n't care . I want to see her . It takes him a second to respond .
ELIOT: Of course .
BEATRICE: What 's the point of preserving the body if the soul 's already left ?
ELIOT: No . The soul never leaves . Beatrice stares at Anna .
BEATRICE: It 's us who are left behind . It 's us who suffer .
TO ANNA: Who 's going to look after me now ? Did you think about that ?
ELIOT: I 'll confirm the date with Father Graham this afternoon . Friday as you requested .
BEATRICE: Just do what you think 's best . It 's just details .
ELIOT: Yes ?
BEATRICE: Her hair . She was a brunette . I 'd like it back to that color .
PAUL'S CAR: Paul grabs the flowers .
PAUL: Mrs. Bryant .
DIANE: I think you better come in .
PAUL: What happened ? Where 's Anna ?
WITHOUT TURNING: Anna was in a car accident last night . My daughter 's dead . That 's what happened . Paul stares at Beatrice 's back in disbelief .
PAUL: A car crash ? When ?
IRRITABLY: I do n't know .
DIANE: They said it happened just before 8.30 .
PAUL: But we were at the restaurant
BEATRICE: You should n't have let her drive in that weather .
PAUL: No . She ca n't be dead . There must be some mistake .
BEATRICE: There 's no mistake . We just got back from the funeral home .
DRYLY: Flowers ? How appropriate . Paul 's not listening anymore . Stunned .
PAUL: Why did n't you call me ?
BEATRICE: You took her away from me . I do n't want you anywhere near her .
ANNA: I must be in shock . That 's all . It 's just shock .
HOARSE: Let me out !
ELIOT: Can I help you ?
PAUL: Mr. Deane ?
ELIOT: Yes .
PAUL: My name 's Conran . Paul Conran . Eliot smiles . Holds out his hand .
ELIOT: Of course . The lawyer . It 's a small town . In my line of work you get to know everyone eventually .
PAUL: I 'm Anna Bryant 's fiance .
ELIOT: That 's strange . She was n't wearing an engagement ring .
PAUL: Well not quite fiance
ELIOT: I 'm very sorry for your loss Mr. Conran .
PAUL: I 'd like to see her .
ELIOT: I 'm afraid the viewing is n't until
PAUL: I 'd need to see her now . If that 's possible .
ELIOT: I 'm sorry . It 's not possible . You 're not family and
PAUL: Please . It 'd only take a minute .
ELIOT: I understand . But
WEAKLY: Paul ! I 'm here ! Paul !
PAUL: I tried to stop her . She did n't hear me .
ELIOT: Mr. Conran . There really is nothing I can do . I 'm so sorry .
ANNA: Who was that ?
ELIOT: No one .
ANNA: No one ? A long beat .
ELIOT: It was Paul .
CALMLY: I know . I heard you talking to him . Why did n't you let him see me ?
ELIOT: Did you love him ?
ANNA: That 's none of your business .
ELIOT: No .
ANNA: Why not ?
ELIOT: Because it would only hurt you . You have to let go of the living . Just like they have to let go of you .
ANNA: I do n't believe you . Why are you doing this to me ?
ELIOT: You 're all the same . You all blame me for your death . As if it were my fault .
ANNA: No . You drugged me . So my mothe
ELIOT: The others . They just see you as a dead ody on a slab . Only I can see you as you really are .
ANNA: You 're crazy ! Eliot 's taken aback . Hurt .
ELIOT: I 'm a busy man . I do n't have time for this .
ANNA: What ! ?
ELIOT: Five seven .
ANNA: Why.. ?
ELIOT: I need to know how tall you are . Fo your coffin .
ANNA: Wait !
ON NEWSPAPER: Schoolteacher Dies in Tragic Car Crash .
JACK: You were supposed to pick me up from school yesterday .
TO PAUL: Mr. Conran . Heard about your girlfriend . I 'm sorry .
PAUL: Is Tom in ?
POLICE OFFICER: The captain just stepped out . He wo n't e long . You can wait in his office if you want .
PAUL: Thanks . I 'll just go and grab a coffee .
PAUL: Come on .
TOM: You OK ?
UNCONVINCING: I 'm fine .
TOM: I just found out . I 'm so sorry Paul . If you need anything
PAUL: I need to see Anna .
PUZZLED: What do you mean ?
PAUL: The funeral director wo n't let me see he Tom . He says I 'm not family . Can you talk to him ? Put some pressure on him .
TOM: I ca n't do that .
PAUL: Tom . You 're my friend .
TOM: Paul . I ca n't do it .
PAUL: I fucked up .
TOM: Paul . It was an accident . You should get some rest . Let me drive you home .
PAUL: I always fuck everything up .
ANNA: Who is she ?
ELIOT: Mrs. Whitehall .
FORCEFULLY: But I 'm not dead !
ANNA: Stay where you are .
ELIOT: Give me the scissors . I only want to help you .
ANNA: Do n't come any closer . I swear to God I 'll kill you .
CALMLY: Go ahead .
ELIOT: Go on .
ELIOT: What are you waiting for ?
ANNA: I 'm breathing ! Look . I 'm still alive !
ELIOT: You think you 're still alive because you 're still attached to life . It 's normal . You 're just imagining you still have symptoms of life .
ANNA: Maybe I was in some kind of coma . The doctors made a mistake . They 're always making mistakes .
ELIOT: You died . Everyone dies .
ANNA: How can I be dead if we 're talking ? He stands up . Sighs wearily .
ELIOT: We 're talking not because you 're alive . But because I have a gift .
BEAT: I can talk to those between life and death .
ANNA: Why ?
ELIOT: To help them make the transition .
ANNA: Is this what happens when you die ?
ELIOT: It depends on how you lived your life .
ANNA: What do you mean ?
ELIOT: Not everyone needs my help . Some let go as soon as their body dies . Others do n't let go until long after they 're in the grave .
ANNA: Am I a ghost ? Is that why I 'm here ?
ELIOT: You 're here so I can bury you .
WHISPERS: No . Please . I do n't want
ELIOT: You 're a corpse . Your opinion does n't count anymore .
ANNA: But I can breathe . I must be alive .
ELIOT: You people . You all think that if you eathe , shit , piss you 're alive . Anna does n't know what to say .
ANNA: I have nothing to learn !
ELIOT: Are you sure ?
ANNA: Are you cold ?
ANNA: You had a long life .
BEAT: Are n't you scared ? Anna 's eyes fill with tears .
ANNA: I 'm scared . I 'm so scared .
ANNA: Who are you ?
GIRL: You promised me so many things .
AMUSED: You do n't recognize me ? Anna shakes her head .
GIRL: I am you . I 've been waiting for you . You should n't have disappointed me .
OLD WOMAN: You 're not ready .
ELIOT: Can I help you ?
ELIOT: They belong in the garbage . Jack turns to leave .
JACK: I thought it was Miss Bryant 's funeral .
ELIOT: Ah . Miss Bryant . No . Her funeral 's not until Friday .
JACK: Where is she now ? Eliot considers the question for a moment .
ELIOT: She 's downstairs .
JACK: Why ?
ELIOT: Why ? Because she 's not ready .
BEAT: Is the flower for her ?
NODS: She was my teacher .
ELIOT: And you are ?
JACK: Jack .
ELIOT: Well Jack . What did you think ?
JACK: About what ?
ELIOT: Mrs. Whitehall 's funeral . Did you find it interesting ?
SHRUGS: It was OK I guess .
ELIOT: Oh . I see .
JACK: Are all funerals the same ?
ELIOT: No Jack . They 're never the same . Each one is special . The dead always speak to us in different ways .
CURIOUS NOW: What do you mean ?
ELIOT: It was a pleasure talking to you Jack .
ANGRY: Why did you do this ?
ANNA: Is this the afterlife ? Am I in heaven ? Or am I in hell ?
GENTLY: It wo n't be long now .
ANNA: I used to believe in God . I thought I 'd see him when I died . Instead I saw you .
WHISPERS: Maybe you are God .
ELIOT: You 'll be at peace soon . I promise .
ANNA: Paul .
WHISPERS: Paul .
WHISPERS: Anna .
SHOUTS: Mom ! We 're out of milk . There 's no reply . Jack grabs his jacket .
ANNA: What 's that ?
ELIOT: It 's your dress . For your funeral . You mother brought it round this morning .
ANNA: This is n't my dress . This is my mother 's dress ! It was supposed to be for her funeral . Why has she given it to me ?
ANNA: It should have been her not me . She was the one dying . Not me .
ELIOT: Why are you still struggling ?
ELIOT: There 's nothing out there for you anymore .
ON ELIOT: as he gets up and turns to Anna .
ELIOT: I 'll be back soon . The door locks behind him with a CLICK .
ANNA: Please .
CASHIER: Thirty-four fifty .
DESPERATELY: Come on . Come on .
ANNA'S POV: Eliot 's van pulls up in front of the house .
DESPERATELY: Please pick up . Please pick up .
ANNA: Paul . Please pick up .
FRENZIED WHISPER: Paul . I 'm here .
FILTERED: Help me Paul .
PAUL: Leave me alone .
ANNA: Paul . Suddenly the light comes on .
ELIOT: I 'm the only one who can hear you now .
ANNA: What do you mean ?
ELIOT: He still feels your presence . You 're only causing him more pain . If you eally loved him , you 'd accept your death and let him go .
ANNA: Then prove to me I 'm really dead .
ELIOT: You people . You always need proof .
ANNA: Why do I look like a corpse ?
ELIOT: Because you are a corpse .
ANNA: I am dead .
RELIEVED: Oh God .
PAUL: Bad dream ?
ANNA: I was dead . I had a car accident . Did you ever dream you were dead ?
PAUL: Ssh . Do n't talk so loud . You 'll wake the neighbors .
ANNA: What neighbors ? You do n't have any neighbors . Suddenly he looks at her reproachfully .
PAUL: Did you ever love me Anna ?
ANNA: Are n't you going to pick it up ?
ELIOT: What do you mean ?
ANNA: I thought when you died you would n't feel anything . You would n't feel any more pain . You would n't have to struggle anymore .
BEAT: But it just does n't stop does it ? Upstairs the phone keeps on ringing .
ELIOT: No . It 's no problem at all . He glances at his watch .
OLD GUY: Well here he is . Frank Merano .
TO PAUL: I 'll leave you to sort out her things .
PAUL: Thank you .
TURNS: Yes ?
JACK: My name 's Jack . Miss Bryant was my teacher .
BEAT: I saw her last night .
JACK: I was going past the funeral home . Miss Bryant stood there . In the window . In a ed dress .
IRRITATED: Anna does n't have a red dress .
JACK: You think I 'm lying . I 'm not lying . Paul stops . Turns to Jack angrily .
PAUL: Look Jack . I 'm in no mood
JACK: She needs your help .
SHOUTS: Jack . Anna 's dead .
PAUL: I ca n't help her anymore .
JACK: Maybe you just do n't love her anymore ?
PAUL: You little fuck . You think this is funny ?
STOCKY TEACHER: Hey !
TEACHER: Are you alright sweetie ?
SECURITY GUARD: The police are on their way .
PAUL: Jack I 'm sorry
SECURITY GUARD: Step back sir .
TOM: You 're lucky .
PAUL: Am I ?
TOM: They 're not pressing charges .
PAUL: You know what he told me ? He told me Anna 's alive .
TOM: You did n't believe him did you ?
PAUL: No . Of course not .
TOM: What ?
PAUL: Nothing . Forget it .
ELIOT: His mouth . To keep it closed .
ANNA: Is this how you 'll prepare my body ?
ELIOT: No . There 's no need . I had to rebuild his face . You 're still beautiful .
ANNA: Does he have family ?
ELIOT: Yes . A brother . He 's coming in later .
ANNA: My mother She did n't cry did she ? When she came to see me ?
ELIOT: I 'm sorry .
ANNA: And Paul ?
ELIOT: It 's not important anymore .
ANNA: I need to know .
HESITATES: No . He did n't cry .
ANNA: I knew he would n't . He always got upset when I cried . He said crying never helped .
ELIOT: You should rest .
ANNA: Can I ask you something ?
ELIOT: Yes . Of course .
ANNA: Why do we die ? A long beat .
ELIOT: To make life important .
ELIOT: Think nothing of it Mr. Houseman . No need to apologize . Eliot moves over to the wall .
ELIOT: How can I help you Officer ?
OFFICER: I 'd like to see the body .
ELIOT: Mr. Merano . Yes . Of course .
VINCENT: He looks so peaceful . You 've done a eautiful job . Thank-you .
ELIOT: You should remember him as he used to be .
VINCENT: That 's the schoolteacher is n't it ? Eliot pulls the sheet over Anna 's face .
QUICKLY: Yes . Very tragic . Now is there anything else I can help you with ? Vincent frowns . Turns back to Eliot .
VINCENT: Something 's not right here .
ELIOT: Not right ? Vincent nods towards Frank 's body .
VINCENT: His smile . It was a bit more
ELIOT: Smiley .
VINCENT: That 's much better . Thank-you .
ELIOT: I 'm glad I could help .
VINCENT: Do you mind if I have a couple of minutes alone with him ? Eliot hesitates . Then smiles .
ELIOT: No . Not at all . I 'll wait outside .
VINCENT: I 'm sorry . I did n't see
ELIOT: I just told you . That was your brother . You had an accident . You 're dead . Why do you people never listen to me ?
ELIOT: No . Now I do n't want to talk to you anymore .
JACK: I 'm off to school now .
TO FRANK: What 's it like ? Are you afraid ?
VIEWING ROOM: Jack turns quickly . Eliot stands over him .
ELIOT: You have empathy with the dead . You 're drawn to them . Just as they 're drawn to you . It 's a rare gift . Jack ca n't look Eliot in the eye .
ELIOT: Yes .
JACK: You 've spoken to others ?
ELIOT: Yes . Many others .
JACK: Who was the first one you spoke to ? A long beat .
ELIOT: My mother .
BEAT: The others . They wo n't understand . They do n't see what we see .
ANNA: Your fingernails are dirty . Eliot smiles . Examines his nails .
ELIOT: I 've been gardening .
ANNA: Is it sunny outside ?
ELIOT: Yes . The tulips love the sun .
ANNA: I miss the sun .
ELIOT: Tulips ? Yes . I think so .
ANNA: I thought it 'd be lilies . White lilies . Do n't they symbolize death ?
ELIOT: No . They symbolize purity .
ANNA: And tulips ? Eliot hesitates for a second before replying .
ELIOT: Unrequited love .
BEAT: What 's your favorite flower ?
ANNA: Violets . Eliot softly washes her legs .
ELIOT: A beautiful flower . They need shade and lots of water .
ANNA: What do they symbolize ?
ELIOT: Faithfulness .
DISTRACTEDLY: Do they ?
ANNA: Roses are red , violets are blue
ELIOT: Mr. Conran . A pleasure . Eliot stands stiffly . Rubs his back .
PAUL: She 's not dead is she ?
AMUSED: Mr. Conran .
PAUL: Someone saw her .
ELIOT: I 'm sorry ?
PAUL: One of Anna 's students . In the window .
ELIOT: Do you mean Jack ? Paul 's momentarily taken aback .
PAUL: You know him ?
ELIOT: Of course I know him . He 's often round here . He seems to have a strange fascination with death . He 's eleven years old Mr. Conran . And like all young oys has a vivid imagination . Now if you 'll excuse me
PAUL: I do n't think he imagined it . I think he eally saw her .
ELIOT: Maybe you just want to believe he saw her .
PAUL: Fuck you .
ELIOT: Mr. Conran !
SHOUTS: Anna ! Eliot calmly heads towards Paul .
ELIOT: Mr. Conran . I think you should leave efore I call the police .
PAUL: What 's down there ?
DESPERATE: I 'm sorry . Please Anna .
PAUL: I ca n't live without you . Eliot looks up at Paul with sudden interest .
ELIOT: Mr. Conran . She 's dead . Paul pushes him away .
PAUL: She needs my help . Eliot looks at him for a moment .
ELIOT: You ca n't help her anymore . Believe me .
PAUL: I need you to issue a search warrant .
LOUDLY: I need a fucking search warrant . Now are you going to help me or what ?
TOM: Paul . Sit down . Paul hesitates for a second .
FIRMLY: Sit . Down .
TOM: Just what the hell do you think you 're doing ? I got a call from Eliot Deane . Are you out of your fucking mind ?
PAUL: Anna 's not dead Tom . He wo n't let me see her . He 's keeping her there
TOM: Anna was in a car accident . Her car was wrecked Paul . Remember ? It 's downstairs .
PAUL: She 's not dead .
TOM: Here 's the Coroner 's report . Paul manically rifles through the file .
PAUL: Look . The paramedics phoned it in . They only checked for eye dilation and pulse . The doctor signed the death certificate without even seeing her body .
IRRITATED: So ? That 's standard procedure .
PAUL: There was no EEG . Nothing . He could have drugged her to make it look like she was dead .
TOM: Drugged her ? Are you serious ? Jeff looks up eagerly from his desk .
JEFF: There are drugs like that chief . Hydronium Bromide . Total paralysis within seconds . The heartbeat slows to almost nothing . Tom shoots Jeff a look .
PAUL: See ? I 'm telling you . She 's not dead . The boy at school . Jack . He saw her .
VINCENT: She was on the slab . Dead .
PAUL: No !
VINCENT: I 've seen dead bodies . Believe me , she was definitely dead .
PAUL: Tom . Just go down there and check the place out .
TOM: On what grounds Paul ? Do you have any evidence ?
PAUL: No . But
TOM: Do you have anything ? Paul hesitates . We sense his uncertainty .
PAUL: I think she called me .
TOM: Called you ?
WEAKLY: On the telephone .
VINCENT: Collect or long distance ? Jeff snorts with laughter .
TOM: First you hit a fucking kid . Then you attack Deane . And now you 're telling me your dead girlfriend called you ? What the fuck 's going on ? You 're loosing it Paul .
PAUL: Maybe you 're right . But why wo n't he let me see her ?
TOM: Look Paul . The funeral 's tomorrow . You 'll see her then . It 'll help . It will give you closure . Trust me .
JACK: You said you could teach me .
ELIOT: It 's only a hole in the ground . I 'm digging it for
JACK: Miss Bryant .
ELIOT: Exactly . For Anna . She belongs here .
JACK: Because she 's dead .
ELIOT: No . Because there 's no life left in her . Jack carefully considers Eliot 's words .
BEAT: Now there 's two of us .
ELIOT: You did well this morning .
ANNA: This morning ?
ELIOT: When Paul came . You did the right thing . You let him go .
ANNA: He 'll be all right now ? Wo n't he ?
CONFUSED: Why do I have to get dressed ?
ELIOT: Tomorrow 's your funeral .
ANNA: Already ?
ELIOT: I told you . You only had three days .
ANNA: I need to I have so many regrets . I have nothing but regrets .
ELIOT: You 're here to understand your life . So you can finally be at peace .
ANNA: I wanted a different life .
ELIOT: Then why did n't you do anything about it ?
ANNA: No matter what I did everything just stayed the same . I 'd wake up . I 'd shower . Sit in the same traffic everyday on my way to work . Go home . Go to sleep . Then wake again . Eliot stops clipping her nails . Irritated .
ELIOT: What did you really want from life ?
ANNA: I just wanted to be happy .
DERISIVELY: Happy ? You all say you wanted to be happy . What does it mean Anna ? To be happy ?
ANNA: I do n't know . Do n't you understand ? That 's the whole point . I do n't know .
ELIOT: Yes you do ! You 're just too scared to admit it to yourself .
ANNA: I do n't want to talk about it anymore . I just want this to be over .
ELIOT: What did you want from life ?
ANNA: I do n't fucking know !
QUIETLY: I wanted love .
ELIOT: You had love . Paul loved you .
ANNA: No . You do n't understand . I was scared . I wanted to love but I did n't know how . I was
BEAT: When I was a child my mother . Anna struggles to pull together her thoughts .
ANNA: When I was a child . I learnt that love . That when you love someone . You get hurt . So I learned not to love . That way no one could ever hurt me again .
ELIOT: Did you ?
ANNA: He was the only one I ever loved . But I never told him that . And then he stopped loving me .
ELIOT: What would you do if you had anothe chance ?
OLD WOMEN: Spit it out .
ANNA: No .
ELIOT: I thought you were different . You all say you 're scared of death . But the truth is you 're more scared of life . Eliot switches off the lights .
MAN'S VOICE: What the fuck are you doing here ? The Figure lowers the flashlight . It 's Tom .
TOM: I 'm taking you home .
JACK: Do n't be scared . It 's better this way .
ON ANNA: Her eyes still closed .
ELIOT: It 's
BEAT: It 's not important . He closes the door .
GENTLY: It 's time now .
ELIOT: You have to look beautiful for you funeral .
ON AMPOULE: We glimpse the label HYDRONIUM BROMIDE .
ELIOT: This is how they 'll all remember you .
ANNA: Can I see myself for the last time ?
ON MIRROR: Anna looks peaceful . Beautiful . Serene .
ANNA: Is this the end ?
ANNA: You lied to me .
ELIOT: Anna . We 've been through this before . You 're just imagining
ANNA: You lied to me .
WHISPERS: Why did you lie to me ?
ON ANNA: delicately closes Anna 's eyelids .
DIANE: Violets . They were her favorite flowers . How did you know ?
ELIOT: Violets just seemed appropriate somehow .
PAUL'S POV: Anna looks serene .
WHISPERS: What is it ?
PAUL: She 's so cold .
TOM: She 's at peace now .
ON COFFIN: A drop of blood falls onto the polished wood .
SOFTLY: Do n't be scared . It 's better this way .
TOM: You sure you 're going to be OK ?
PAUL: Yeah . Thanks Tom . Tom squeezes Paul 's shoulder then walks away .
ELIOT'S ROOM: Eliot moves towards the window .
ELIOT: They 've said their good byes and gone ack to their TV dinners and shopping malls . Thinking that this is never going to happen to them . Until it 's their turn to be buried . Think about it Anna Eliot glances at his watch .
PAUL: You said she was alive .
JACK: I never said she was alive . I just said I saw her .
PAUL: You need a ride ? Jack shakes his head .
JACK: Mr. Conran ?
PAUL TURNS: Do n't forget to fasten your seat belt .
JACK'S POV: Eliot stands in the window smiling at him .
PAUL: Go to hell .
AMUSED: Mr. Conran . We 're at a wake . You should show more respect .
PAUL: I know she was n't dead .
ELIOT: Was n't she ? Eliot 's suddenly tired of Paul 's allegations .
TAUNTING: You think Anna was alive after the accident ? Maybe you 're right . Paul 's stunned .
ELIOT: Maybe she 's still alive . You obviously do n't believe a word I say . So why do n't you go and find out for yourself Mr. Conran . Find out whether she 's alive or dead .
LOUDLY: You twisted fuck .
ELIOT: You do n't have much time left . Father Graham puts his hand on Paul 's arm .
FATHER GRAHAM: Please . Paul . You 're not well .
PAUL: Come on . Come on .
PAUL: Anna . I 'm here . Please God . Anna .
ANNA: Paul ?
PAUL: Baby . Thank God .
ANNA: You came back for me .
PAUL: I came back for you . You 're safe now .
ANNA: Promise ?
SMILES: Promise .
PAUL: Anna ?
ANNA: Are we going home ?
PAUL: Where did you go ?
WHISPERS: I 've been waiting for you . I missed you so much .
ANNA: I love you . I always did .
ALARMED: What was that ? Anna responds as if it was nothing strange .
ANNA: It 's only the scissors
PAUL: Scissors ? What scissors ?
ANNA: Scissors . For your clothes . Eliot just put them on the table . Paul pulls back . Terrified .
PAUL: Where am I ?
ELIOT: You 're in a funeral home .
BEAT: You 're dead .
PAUL: I 'm not dead . Jack appears at Eliot 's side .
ELIOT: You had a car accident . You swerved off the road . On the way to the cemetery . Hit a tree .
PAUL: I saw Anna . You buried her alive .
ELIOT: I 'm sorry Mr. Conran . You never made it to the cemetery . You never saw Anna . You 're dead . Paul 's glazed eyes widen in shock .
PAUL: I 'm not dead . Eliot speaks calmly . Soothingly .
ELIOT: Your skull was crushed . Your spinal cord pulverized . Your brain cells are slowly dying . Your body 's already decomposing .
PAUL: I 'm not dead .
ELIOT: You people . You all say the same thing .
MOTHER SUPERIOR: Agnes ! Agnes
PARAMEDIC: I 'm just going to put something here to stop the bleeding . Excuse me Sister . She 'll be fine .
REPORTER: Here they are now .
LEVEAU: Martha , it 's you .
MARTHA: What about Roger ? He 's free .
EVE: They want a woman .
LYON: All you have to do is meet with he once or twice then tell the court she 's insane .
MARTHA: Are you dictating my position to me ? We 're getting into some sticky legal territories here .
EVE: Martha , all we 're saying is , no-one wants this to come to trial , not the Church , not the Crown least of all me .
MARTHA: Eve , she strangled a baby !
EVE: Nobody is interested in sending a nun to prison .
LEVEAU: We 're not telling you what to decide Martha . We 're not even telling you to take this .
LYON: Is there any reason why you feel you should n't take it ?
MARTHA: Today 's my birthday . I always make ad decisions on my birthday .
LEVEAU: Happy birthday .
MARTHA: Bonjour , I 'm Doctor Martha Livingston , I
MOTHER SUPERIOR: Doctor Livingston I presume ? I 'm Mother Miriam Ruth . You need n't call Mother if you do n't wish . Most people find it uncomfortable .
MARTHA: Well I
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 'm afraid the word brings up the most unpleasant connatations in this day and age
MARTHA: Yes I
MOTHER MIRIAM: You can call me Sister .
MARTHA: Thank you .
MOTHER MIRIAM: You must have tons of questions . You may smoke if you want to . Just do n't tell any of the Sisters .
MARTHA: You were a smoker ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Two packs a day .
MARTHA: I can beat that .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Unfiltered .
MARTHA: Who knew about Agnes ' pregnancy ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: No-one .
MARTHA: How did she hide it from the other nuns ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She undressed alone she bathed alone .
MARTHA: Is that normal ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes .
MARTHA: How did she hide it during the day ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She could have hidden a machine gun in here if she had wanted to .
MARTHA: Did n't she have any physical examinations
MOTHER MIRIAM: We 're examined once a year . Her pregnancy fell in between the doctor 's visits .
MARTHA: Who was the father ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I have n't a clue .
MARTHA: What man had access to her ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: None as far as I know .
MARTHA: Was there a priest ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes , but I
MARTHA: What 's his name ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Father Martineau , but I do n't see him as a candidate .
MARTHA: Could there have been anyone else ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Obviously there was .
MARTHA: And you did n't try to find out who ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Believe me , I 've done everything possible short of asking Agnes .
MARTHA: Why have n't you asked her ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She ca n't even remember the birth . Do you think she 'd admit to the conception ?
MARTHA: Look , someone gave her the baby .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Do n't ask me those questions dear , I 'm not the patient .
MARTHA: Well I 'm the doctor . I 'm the one who 's going to decide what is , or is not important here .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Look doctor , I do n't know how to tell you this politely , but I do n't approve of you . Not you personally
MARTHA: The science of psychiatry .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Exactly . I want you do deal with Agnes as speedily and as easily as possible . She wo n't hold up under any sort of cross examination .
MARTHA: I am not with the Inquisition .
MOTHER MIRIAM: And I am not from the Middle Ages . I know what you are ! I do n't want that mind cut open . Then Mother Miriam walks out .
MARTHA: Hello . I 'm Doctor Livingston . I 've been asked to talk to you . May I ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: You have a lovely voice .
AGNES: No I do n't .
MARTHA: I just heard you .
AGNES: That was n't me .
MARTHA: Was it Sister Marguerite ?
AGNES: No I 'm not .
MARTHA: Has n't anyone ever told you that before ?
AGNES: Let 's talk about something else .
MARTHA: What would you like to talk about .
AGNES: I do n't know .
MARTHA: Anything may I sit down ?
AGNES: Yes . They both sit .
MARTHA: First thing that comes to your mind ?
AGNES: God ! But there 's nothing to say about God .
MARTHA: Second thing that comes to your mind .
AGNES: Love .
MARTHA: Have you ever loved anyone ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: Everyone .
MARTHA: Well , who in particular ?
AGNES: Right now ?
MARTHA: Uh huh .
AGNES: I love you .
MARTHA: Agnes , have you ever loved anothe man other than , Jesus Christ ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: Oh , there are so many .
MARTHA: Well do you love do you love Father Martineau ?
AGNES: Oh , yes !
MARTHA: Do you think he loves you ?
AGNES: Oh , I know he does .
MARTHA: He 's told you ?
AGNES: No . But when I look into his eyes , I can tell .
MARTHA: You 've been alone together ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Often ?
AGNES: At least once a week .
MARTHA: And you like that ?
AGNES: Oh , yes .
MARTHA: Where do you meet ?
AGNES: In the confessional . A slightly awkward pause .
MARTHA: Agnes , do ever see Father Martineau outside the
AGNES: You want to talk about the baby do n't you ?
MARTHA: Would you like to talk about it ?
AGNES: I never saw any baby I think they made it up .
MARTHA: Why should they ?
AGNES: I do n't know .
MARTHA: Do you remember the night they said it came ?
AGNES: No . I was sick .
MARTHA: How were you sick ?
AGNES: Something I ate .
MARTHA: Did it hurt ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Where ?
AGNES: Down there .
MARTHA: And what did you do ?
AGNES: I went to my room .
MARTHA: And what happened ?
AGNES: I got sicker .
AGNES: I fell asleep .
MARTHA: In the middle of all the pain ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Where did the baby come from ?
AGNES: What baby ?
MARTHA: The baby they made up .
AGNES: From their heads
MARTHA: Is that where they say it came from ?
AGNES: No , they say it came from the waste paper basket !
MARTHA: Where 'd it come from before that ?
AGNES: From God .
MARTHA: After God before the waste-pape asket .
AGNES: I I do n't understand .
MARTHA: Agnes , how are babies born ?
AGNES: Do n't you know ?
MARTHA: Yes I do , but I want you to
AGNES: I do n't understand what you 're talking about you want to talk about the baby everybody wants
MARTHA: Then let 's talk about something else
AGNES: No no , I 'm tired of talking , I 've been talking for weeks , nobody believes me when I tell them anything nobody listens to me .
MARTHA: Agnes
AGNES: No no , I do n't want to answer any more questions .
MARTHA: Would you like to ask them ?
AGNES: What do you mean ?
MARTHA: Just that you ask and I 'll answer .
AGNES: Anything ?
MARTHA: Anything .
AGNES: What 's your real name ?
MARTHA: Martha Louise Livingston .
AGNES: Are you married ?
MARTHA: No .
AGNES: Would you like to be ?
MARTHA: Not at the moment , no .
AGNES: Do you have any children ?
MARTHA: No .
AGNES: Would you like some ?
MARTHA: I ca n't have them any more .
AGNES: Why not ?
MARTHA: I 've stopped menstruating
AGNES: Why do you smoke ?
MARTHA: Does it bother you ?
AGNES: No questions .
MARTHA: Smoking is an obsession with me . Maybe one day I 'll become obsessed with something else , then I 'll stop smoking Do you have any more questions ?
AGNES: One .
MARTHA: What ? They both halt .
AGNES: Where do you think babies come from ?
MARTHA: From their mothers and fathers of course . Before that , I I do n't know .
AGNES: Well I think they come from angel lights on their mothers chest and whispers into her ear . That makes good abies start to grow . And bad babies come from when a fallen angel squeezes in down there , and they start to grow , grow , till they come out down there . I do n't know where good babies come out . And you ca n't tell the difference except bad babies cry a lot and they make their fathers go away and thei mothers get very ill die sometimes .
MARTHA: Do you know a Marie ?
AGNES: No do you ?
MARTHA: Why should I ?
AGNES: I do n't know .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Well what do you think ? Is she totally bananas or merely slightly off centre or maybe she 's perfectly sane and just a very good liar .
MARTHA: What 's your opinion ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I believe Agnes is different .
MARTHA: From other nuns Yes I I 've noticed .
MOTHER MIRIAM: From other people ! I believe she is not crazy , nor is she lying .
MARTHA: How could she have a baby and know nothing of sex or birth ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Because she 's an innocent . She 's a slate that 's has n't been touched except by God .
MOTHER MIRIAM: In her case it is n't . She 's had very little schooling . Her mother kept her home almost all the time and when her mothe died Agnes came here , to us . She 's neve een out there Doctor . She 's never seen a movie or a television show . She 's neve even read a book .
MARTHA: If she 's so innocent , how come she murdered a child ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She did n't ! This is manslaughter , not murder . She did n't consciously kill that aby . She 'd lost a lot of blood . She was unconscious by the time we got to her .
MARTHA: So , someone else could have done it .
MOTHER MIRIAM: No not in the eyes of the police .
MARTHA: And in your eyes ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 've already told you what I thought .
MARTHA: That she was unconscious , yes ! So someone easily could have come in the room and killed the
MOTHER MIRIAM: You do n't really believe something like that happened do you ?
MARTHA: It 's possible is n't it ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who ?
MARTHA: One of the other nuns found out about the baby and and wanted to avoid a scandal .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's absurd !
MARTHA: That possibility never occurred to you ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: No-one knew about Agnes ' pregnancy . No-one . Not even Agnes .
MARTHA: Is Father Martineau in please ?
HOUSEKEEPER: Wipe your feet .
FATHER MARTINEAU: They arise at five in the morning and they 're in bed by nine at night . Even if a man could get to them , he would probably find them praying . That 's why I see that the real question is not only how he got in , ut when .
MARTHA: And you 're the only man to see them ?
FATHER MARTINEAU: I promise you Doctor , even if I had the inclination , how could I possibly catch her ? She would have to be a very slow and patient nun . Ah no they 're a very special and rare people those Sisters . Only a few of them left in this modern world , consecrated to the praise of God .
MARTHA: Hello , Mama brought you something .
MAMA: Shut up , I 'm trying to watch this .
MARTHA: It 's your favourite
MAMA: Who are you ?
MARTHA: It 's Martha , Mama . There you go .
MAMA: Marie brings me icecream too you know . Chocolate my favourite .
MARTHA: I thought cherry-vanilla was you favourite .
MAMA: Not any more now I like chocolate .
MARTHA: Did you have a good week Mama . Are they treating you all right ?
MAMA: You know Martha never comes to see me . You watch it , she 's going straight to hell after all the things she said to me . Then she marries that son of a bitch of a Frenchman has an abortion . I knew that one would n't work out . Not like you Marie . You got married to God .
MARTHA: Marie 's dead Mama .
MAMA: I remember when you was a little girl Marie . You come back from the movies and you 'd say - Mama that ending was so sad and I 'd tell you they had all the happy endings locked away in a vault in Hollywood . And you believed me .
MARTHA: Mama , that was n't Marie , that was me !
MAMA: Who are you ?
MARTHA: I I 'm Martha , Mama .
SISTER ANNE: The convent was built for over fifty . Not many of us left just us and the chickens .
MARTHA: How do you survive ?
SISTER ANNE: Oh , we own the land around here . But we rent it out . We keep a few acres for ourselves , some wheat , corn , some vegetables .
MARTHA: Well that 's a lot of land . You must have help . Do you have field hands that help you ?
SISTER ANNE: No . We work the land alone . No-one but Sister Marguerite and I are permitted contact with the public .
MARTHA: Sister Anne , which was Agnes ' room ?
SISTER ANNE: Oh that one there , in the corner .
MARTHA: The one up on the third floor ?
SISTER ANNE: Yes .
MARTHA: Uh huh .
MOTHER MIRIAM: This convent is locked solid . The only one that has a key is Sister Marguerite and she would n't let Christ in after dark .
MARTHA: Well , it 's been known to happen in the day too . Maybe Agnes went to him .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh come on , you 've talked to her . She does n't even know how babies are born , let alone made .
MARTHA: When did you first learn about her innocence , the way she thinks ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Shortly after she came to us .
MARTHA: And you were n't shocked ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I was appalled , just as you are now .
MARTHA: And what happened ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She stopped eating completely
AGNES: I 've been commanded by God .
MOTHER MIRIAM: He talked to you Himself ?
AGNES: No .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Through someone else ?
AGNES: Yes .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who ?
AGNES: I ca n't say .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why ?
AGNES: She 'd punish me .
MOTHER MIRIAM: One of the other Sisters ?
AGNES: No .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who ?
AGNES: Because I 'm getting fat .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , for Heaven 's sake .
AGNES: I am , there 's too much flesh on me .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Agnes
AGNES: I 'm a blimp .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why does it matter whether you 're fat or not
AGNES: Because
MOTHER MIRIAM: You need n't worry about being attractive here .
AGNES: I do , I have to be attractive to God .
MOTHER MIRIAM: He loves you the way you are .
AGNES: No he does n't . He hates fat people .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who told you this ?
AGNES: It 's a sin to be fat .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why ?
AGNES: Look at the statues , they 're thin .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Agnes
AGNES: That 's because they 're suffering suffering is beautiful , I want to be eautiful .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who tells you these things ?
AGNES: Christ said it in the Bible , he said - suffer the little children , I want to suffer like a little child .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's not what he meant .
AGNES: I I am a little child but my body keeps getting bigger and soon I I wo n't be able to fit in , I I wo n't be able to squeeze into Heaven .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Agnes dear , Heaven is not a place where
AGNES: No I mean I mean look at these . I 've got to lose weight , I 'm a blimp .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh my dear child .
AGNES: God blew up the Hindenburg . He 'll low me up , that 's what she said
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who ?
AGNES: Mommy I 'll get bigger and bigger every day and then I 'll pop but but if I stay little it wo n't happen .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Your mother tells you this ? Agnes your mother is dead .
AGNES: But she watches she listens .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Nonsense , I 'm your mother now and I want you to eat .
AGNES: I 'm not hungry .
AGNES: No I do n't the host is enough .
MOTHER MIRIAM: My dear , I do n't think a communion wafe has the recommended daily allowance of anything .
AGNES: Of God .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes , of God .
AGNES: I 'm being punished .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why ?
AGNES: I do n't know .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Dear Jesus She quickly leads Agnes out of the chapel .
AGNES: It started this morning and I ca n't get it to stop .
MARTHA: Why did n't you take her to a doctor ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: It was healed by the following morning and she started eating again
MARTHA: She had a a hole in the palm of he hand ! She could have bled to death .
MARTHA: She has it now .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I know what you 're thinking , she 's a hysteric pure and simple .
MARTHA: Not simple , no .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I saw it . Clean through the palm of her hand . Do you think hysteria could do that ?
MARTHA: It 's being doing it for centuries . She 's not unique , she 's just another victim .
MOTHER MIRIAM: God 's victim . That 's her innocence . She belongs to God .
MARTHA: And I intend to take her away from Him . That 's what you 're afraid of is n't it ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: You bet I am .
LARRY: Here you are . Do n't let anyone know where you got them .
AGNES: Last Tuesday , I did n't eat all of my lima beans hid them under my spoon .
FATHER MARTINEAU: Yes
AGNES: I thought thoughts about
FATHER MARTINEAU: Speak up , I can hardly hear you .
AGNES: I thought ugly thoughts about Siste Marguerite .
LEVEAU: Would you tell me why the hell this is taking so long .
MARTHA: Look there are a lot of unanswered questions here .
LYON: Martha , your job is to diagnose , not to heal and play detective . Who do you think you are ?
MARTHA: I know my job . Do n't tell me my job Lyon . My duty as a doctor is to
EVE: Martha , you have to make a decision on her sanity as quickly as possible and not interfere with due process of law .
MARTHA: No no , excuse me Eve . As quickly as I see fit .
EVE: The longer you take to make a decision , the more difficult it will be for us .
MARTHA: Why ?
EVE: The bishop is breathing down our necks .
MARTHA: And the sooner she goes to prison , the etter off she 'll be ?
MARTHA: I do n't believe this . I do n't bloody elieve this .
LYON: Well the bishop will be very upset about this .
MARTHA: I 'm fighting for this woman 's life , not some bloody bishop .
AGNES: She was kind to me . She told me I was beautiful .
MARTHA: What else did she tell you ?
AGNES: She said all of God 's angels would want to sleep beside me if they could . I liked that .
MARTHA: Where 's that ? I promise I wo n't tell , would you take me ?
AGNES: No , only when she felt like it . She ought me up here last winter and the next day she died .
MARTHA: No wonder wait Agnes Agnes how do you feel about babies ?
AGNES: Oh , they frighten me , I 'm afraid I 'll drop them . They have a soft spot on their heads and if you drop them so they land on their heads they become stupid . I was dropped on my head , that 's why I do n't understand things .
MARTHA: Like what ?
AGNES: Numbers you can spend your whole life counting and never reach the end .
MARTHA: I do n't understand them either . Do you suppose I was dropped on my head ?
AGNES: I hope not . It 's a terrible thing to be dropped on your head .
MARTHA: Oh , I 've got to give up smoking . Agnes wait a minute Agnes slow down .
AGNES: She said you could see the whole world from up here . But it looks much better far away than it looks close up . Martha arrives exhausted .
MARTHA: Beautiful Agnes lies down under the bell .
AGNES: And sometimes I get under here it makes a wonderful sound .
MARTHA: What happens if the bell rings and you 're under there ?
AGNES: Oh , it 's even more wonderful then . Agnes sings a little more .
MARTHA: It 's like hiding from my mother when I was a little girl .
AGNES: Where did you go ?
MARTHA: Oh , no place as wonderful as this . Agnes have you ever thought of leaving the convent for something else ?
AGNES: No . There is nothing else . Just being here at night helps me sleep .
MARTHA: You have trouble sleeping ?
AGNES: I get headaches . Mommy did too oh , but she was n't stupid . She knew things that nobody else knew .
MARTHA: What things ?
AGNES: She knew what was going to happen to me . That 's why she hid me away .
MARTHA: How did she know that ?
AGNES: Somebody told her .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: I do n't know .
MARTHA: Agnes
AGNES: You 'll laugh .
MARTHA: I promise I wo n't laugh . Who told her ?
AGNES: An angel , when she was having one of her headaches .
MARTHA: Did your mother see angels often ?
AGNES: No .
MARTHA: Do you ?
AGNES: No .
MARTHA: Do you believe she really saw them ?
AGNES: No , but I can never tell her that .
MARTHA: Why not ? Mmm ?
AGNES: She 'd get angry . Martha moves round close to Agnes .
MARTHA: Agnes , did you love your mother ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Did you ever want to be a mothe yourself ?
AGNES: I could never be a mother .
MARTHA: Why not ?
AGNES: Well I do n't think I 'm old enough and esides I do n't want to have a baby .
MARTHA: Why not ?
AGNES: Because I do n't want one .
MARTHA: If you did want one , how 'd you go about getting one ?
AGNES: From someone who did n't want to have a baby .
MARTHA: Like you ?
MARTHA: How would that person get one if they did n't want one ?
AGNES: A mistake
MARTHA: Agnes , how did your mother get you ?
AGNES: A mistake it was a mistake
AGNES: If you 're trying to get me to say that she was a bad woman and hated me and did n't want me but that 's not true , she was a good woman , a saint
MARTHA: Agnes , I do n't believe you know nothing about sex
AGNES: I ca n't help it if I 'm stupid .
MARTHA: that you do n't remember getting pregnant
AGNES: Not my fault .
MARTHA: and that you do n't believe you carried a child .
AGNES: I was a mistake .
MARTHA: What the child ?
AGNES: Everything I do n't have children .
MARTHA: Agnes
AGNES: Do n't touch me like that ! You do n't touch me like that , I know what you want from me , you want to take God away . You should be ashamed , they should lock you up people like you .
MOTHER MIRIAM: You hate us do n't you ?
MARTHA: What ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Nuns you hate nuns .
MARTHA: I hate ignorance and stupidity .
MOTHER MIRIAM: The Catholic Church
MARTHA: I have n't said anything against the the Catholic Church .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Catholicism is not on trial here . I want you to deal with Agnes without any religious prejudice or you turn this case over to someone else
MARTHA: How dare you tell me to run my affairs !
MOTHER MIRIAM: It 's my affair too .
MARTHA: How dare you think I 'm in a position to be pressured
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 'm only interested
MARTHA: or bullied or what ever you 're doing . Who the hell do you think you are ? You go around here expecting applause fo the way you treated this child .
MOTHER MIRIAM: She is not a child .
MARTHA: And she has a right to know that there 's a world out there filled with people who do n't believe in God
MOTHER MIRIAM: ? ? ?
MARTHA: ? ? ? virginity , right Mother ? Poverty , chastity and ignorance is what you live by .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I am not a virgin , Doctor . I was married for twenty three years , two daughters . I even have grandchildren surprised ? It might please you to know that I was a failure as a wife and mother . My children wo n't even see me any more , that 's thei evenge . I think they tell their friends that I 've passed on . And do n't tell me I 'm making up for past mistakes Doctor Freud .
MARTHA: Then help her .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I am
MARTHA: No , you 're shielding her . Let her face the world .
MOTHER MIRIAM: What good would it do . No matter what you decide it 's either the the prison or the nut house and the differences etween them are pretty thin .
MARTHA: There 's another choice .
MOTHER MIRIAM: What ?
MARTHA: Aquittal .
MOTHER MIRIAM: How ?
MARTHA: Innocence . Legal innocence . I know the judge would be happy for any eason to throw this case out of court .
MOTHER MIRIAM: All right , what do you need .
MARTHA: Answers . Martha holds her hand .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , some time in January .
MARTHA: Do you remember anything unusual happening at the time ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Earthquakes ?
MARTHA: Visitors to the convent .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Nothing .
MARTHA: Do you have a a diary or a day book ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes .
MARTHA: Take at look at it .
MOTHER MIRIAM: There 's nothing here .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , Dear God
MARTHA: What is it ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: The sheets
MARTHA: What sheets ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , Dear God , I should have guessed
AGNES: Yes Mother .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why ?
AGNES: In the medieval days the nuns and monks would sleep in their own coffins .
MOTHER MIRIAM: We 're not in the Middle Ages , Sister .
AGNES: It made them holy .
MOTHER MIRIAM: It made them uncomfortable . And if
AGNES: No .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Then tell me . Where are your sheets ?
AGNES: I burnt them .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why ?
AGNES: They were stained .
MOTHER MIRIAM: How many times have I burned into your thick skull and the thick skull of your fellow novice , that menstruation is a perfectly natural process and nothing to be ashamed of .
AGNES: Yes , Mother .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Say it ! AGNES and GENEVIEVE It is a perfectly natural process and nothing to be ashamed of .
AGNES: It 's not that it 's not that
MOTHER MIRIAM: What do you mean ?
AGNES: It 's not my time of month .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Should you see a doctor ?
AGNES: I do n't know . I do n't know what happened Mother , I woke up there was blood on the sheets , but I do n't know what happened . I do n't know what I did wrong , I do n't know and I should be punished .
MOTHER MIRIAM: For what ?
AGNES: I do n't know I do n't know
MARTHA: No .
MONSIGNOR: Well you 're probably right about that . It certainly ca n't help Siste Agnes to have this investigation continued for any length of time .
MARTHA: Why do you call it an investigation ? I never have .
MONSIGNOR: Your mother was a resident of Saint Catherines home before you moved her .
MARTHA: What does this have to do with.. ?
MONSIGNOR: And you had a sister who died in the convent .
MARTHA: Who told you this ?
MONSIGNOR: Do you still go to church ?
MARTHA: What business is it of yours.. ?
MONSIGNOR: Oh , we just wonder if you can be very objective about this case .
MARTHA: Look , Father , ah just because I do n't subscribe to the to the beliefs you subscribe to
MONSIGNOR: But what you believe makes no difference to us whatsoever Doctor . But it does
MARTHA: I do n't understand . Are you expecting me to.. ?
MONSIGNOR: Well somone 's got to suffer for this Doctor . You 've got to be merciful and quick . Excuse me . Martha stares at him as he walks away .
MARTHA: Agnes , I 'm here because I want to help you .
AGNES: I 'm not sick .
MARTHA: But you 're troubled are n't you ?
AGNES: That 's because you keep reminding me . If you go away then I 'll forget .
MARTHA: And you 're unhappy .
AGNES: Everyone 's unhappy , you 're unhappy are n't
MARTHA: Agnes
AGNES: Answer me ! You never answer me .
MARTHA: Sometimes , yes .
AGNES: Only you think you 're lucky because you did n't have a mother who said things to you and did things to you that maybe were n't always nice but that was because of me , because I was bad , not her .
MARTHA: What did you do ?
AGNES: I 'm always bad .
MARTHA: What did you do ?
AGNES: I breathed !
MARTHA: Agnes . What did your mother do to you ? If you ca n't answer me , just shake your head yes or no . Did did she hit you ? Did she make you do something you did n't want to ? Did it make you feel uncomfortable to do it ? Did it embarrass you ? Did it did it hurt you ? What did she make you you do ?
AGNES: No
MARTHA: You can tell me .
AGNES: I ca n't .
MARTHA: She 's dead is n't she ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: She ca n't hurt you any more .
AGNES: She can .
MARTHA: How ?
AGNES: She watches she listens .
MARTHA: Agnes , I do n't believe that . Tell me . I 'll protect you from her .
AGNES: She
MARTHA: Yes ?
AGNES: makes me
MARTHA: Yes ?
AGNES: take off my clothes and then she makes fun of me .
MARTHA: She tells you you 're ugly ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: And that you 're stupid ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: That you 're a mistake ?
AGNES: She says my whole body 's a mistake .
MARTHA: Why ?
AGNES: Because she says if I do n't watch out I 'll have a baby .
MARTHA: How does she know that ?
AGNES: Her headaches .
MARTHA: Oh , yes .
AGNES: And then
MARTHA: What ?
AGNES: She touches me down there with a cigarette . Please Mommy , do n't touch me like that any more . I 'll be good , I wo n't be a baby any more .
MARTHA: Agnes , oh Agnes , Agnes I want you to do something . I want you to pretend that I 'm your mother . Oh yes , only this time I want you to tell me what you 're feeling , alright ?
AGNES: I 'm afraid .
MARTHA: Please ! I want to help you . Let me help you .
AGNES: Alright .
MARTHA: Agnes , you 're ugly ! what do you say ? Of course you do . Agnes , you 're ugly ! what do you say ?
AGNES: No I 'm not .
MARTHA: Are you pretty ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Agnes , you 're stupid .
AGNES: No I 'm not .
MARTHA: Are you intelligent ?
AGNES: Yes I am .
MARTHA: You 're a mistake .
AGNES: I 'm not mistake , I 'm here are n't I . How can I be a mistake if I 'm really here . God does n't make mistakes , you 're a mistake
MARTHA: Oh Agnes , oh Agnes , it 's alright , it 's alright , it 's alright , it 's alright , I love you .
AGNES: Do you really love me or are you just saying that ?
MARTHA: I really love you .
AGNES: As much as Mother Miriam does ?
MARTHA: As much as God loves you .
MARTHA: Agnes ? Who ? Mother Superior ?
MARTHA: What ?
ELDERLY NUN: Look into the convent records .
MARTHA: Sister
MARTHA: Your niece !
MOTHER MIRIAM: I did n't tell you because I did n't think it was important .
MARTHA: No , it just makes you doubly esponsible does n't it ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I never saw Agnes until she set foot in this convent . My sister ran away from home . We lost touch with her . And when my husband died and I came here , she wrote to me and asked me if I would take care of Agnes in case anything happened .
MARTHA: And Agnes ' father ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: It could have been any one of a dozen men from what my sister told me .
MARTHA: Like keeping her home from school ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes .
MARTHA: Listening to angels ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She drank too much . That 's what killed her .
MARTHA: Do you know what she did to her ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I do n't think I care to know .
MARTHA: She molested her !
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , dear God .
MARTHA: There is more here than meets the eye is n't there ? Lots of dirty little secrets .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh God , if only I 'd known .
MARTHA: Why did n't you ? You knew she was keeping her home from school . You knew she was an alcoholic .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I knew that after the fact .
MARTHA: Why did n't you do anything to stop her ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Because I did n't know
MARTHA: Oh , God .
LARRY: Marty , what are you doing here ?
MARTHA: Larry there 's got to be something missing .
LARRY: I gave you the pictures Marty , what else do you want ?
LARRY: What ? You think that the girl is innocent ?
MARTHA: I do n't know .
LARRY: You got to be crazy .
MARTHA: Larry
LARRY: What 's the matter with you , you 've seen the reports . It 's a cut and dried case .
MARTHA: Maybe there 's something that 's not in the report that should be .
LARRY: You 're too involved Marty . Jesus look at you . Why do n't you turn this case over to someone else ?
MARTHA: Thanks .
LARRY: If I find anything I 'll call you .
MARTHA: I 've gotten the court 's permission to hypnotise her .
MOTHER MIRIAM: And my permission ?
MARTHA: I 'd like yours too .
MOTHER MIRIAM: We 'll see about that .
MARTHA: Do n't deny it !
MOTHER MIRIAM: I have n't decided yet .
MARTHA: The woman 's health is at stake .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Her spiritual health .
MARTHA: I do n't give a damn about her spiritual health .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I know you do n't .
MARTHA: Sentence her and be done with it , that 's what you 're saying and I
MARTHA: An unhappy woman
MOTHER MIRIAM: She 's happy with us and she could go on being happy if she was left alone .
MARTHA: Then why did you call the police in the first place Mother , huh ? MARTHA Why did n't you just throw the baby into the incinerator and be done with it .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Because I am a moral person .
MARTHA: Bullshit !
MOTHER MIRIAM: Bullshit yourself !
MARTHA: Catholic Church does n't have a corne on morality
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who said anything about the Catholic Church
MARTHA: You just said
MOTHER MIRIAM: What the hell has the Catholic Church got to do with you ?
MARTHA: Nothing
MOTHER MIRIAM: What have we done to hurt you ? And do n't deny it , I can smell an ex-Catholic a mile away . What did we do ? Burn a few heretics , sell some indulgences ? That was in the days when the Church was a ruling body . We let governments do those things today . So what did we do to you eh ? You wanted to neck in the ack seat of a car when you were fifteen and you could n't because it was a sin ?
MARTHA: It was n't sex . It was a lot of things , but it was n't sex . You know when I was in the first grade my best friend was run
MOTHER MIRIAM: Stupid woman and that 's all ?
MARTHA: That 's all ? That 's enough ! She was a eautiful little girl .
MOTHER MIRIAM: And what has that to do with it ?
MARTHA: I was n't . I was n't . She was the pretty one . She died , why not me ? I never said my morning prayers . And I was ugly , I was scrawny , I had buck teeth and freckles all over my face , do you know what the nun called me , Sister Mary Clitus , called me Polkadot Livingston .
MOTHER MIRIAM: So you left the Church because you had freckles ?
MARTHA: No , because I yeah , yeah I left the Church cause I had freckles .
MOTHER MIRIAM: When I was a child I used to hear my guardian angel . She sang to me 'till I was six years old . That 's when I stopped listening . But I remember the voice . A few years ago I looked at myself and saw nothing but a nun who was certain of nothing . Not even of Heaven . Not even of God . And then one evening I saw Agnes standing by her window , singing . And all my doubts about
MARTHA: My sister died in a convent . And it 's he voice I hear . Does my smoking bother you ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: No , it reminds me .
MARTHA: Would you like one ? Huh ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 'd love one .
MARTHA: All right ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Fine thanks
MARTHA: Do you suppose the saints would have smoked if tobacco had been popula ack then ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Undoubtedly . Not the ascetics of course ut , well Saint Thomas More
MARTHA: Long , thin and filtered .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Saint Ignatius would smoke cigars and stub them out on the soles of his bare feet . And of course
MARTHA: Hand rolled .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Even Christ would partake socially .
MARTHA: Saint Peter ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Pipe !
MARTHA: Right
MOTHER MIRIAM: Mary Magdelen ?
MARTHA: Oh , you 've come a long way baby .
MOTHER MIRIAM: And Saint John would chew tobacco .
MARTHA: Right . What do you suppose today 's saints are smoking ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: There are no saints today . Good people yes , but extraordinarily good people those I 'm afraid we are sorely lacking .
MARTHA: Do you think they ever existed ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes I do .
MARTHA: Do you want to become one ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Become ? One is born a saint .
MARTHA: Well you can try , ca n't you , to be good ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes , but goodness has very little to do with it . Not all the saints were good , in fact some of them were a little crazy . But they were still attached to God . Agnes has that birth .
MARTHA: Do you think Agnes is still attached to God ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Listen to her singing .
MARTHA: I 'd like to begin .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Begin what ?
MARTHA: The hypnotism . Do you still disapprove ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Would it stop you if I did ?
MARTHA: No . They both halt .
MOTHER MIRIAM: May I be present ?
MARTHA: Of course .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Then let 's begin .
MARTHA: You 're listening to a chorus of angels . The music surrounds you like a warm and , comfortable pool of water . And while you 're sleeping , you 're going to be able to recall , all the things that we want you to remember . And when I count to three and clap my hands , you 'll no longer be hypnotised . Can you hear me .
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Who am I ?
AGNES: Doctor Livingston .
MARTHA: And why am I here ?
AGNES: To help me .
MARTHA: Good . Would you like to tell me why you 're here ?
AGNES: Because I 'm in trouble .
MARTHA: What kind of trouble ? What kind of trouble Agnes ? Martha starts to walk around behind Agnes .
AGNES: I 'm frightened .
MARTHA: Of what ?
AGNES: Of telling you .
MARTHA: But it 's easy . It 's just a breath with sound . Say it . What kind of trouble ?
AGNES: I had a baby .
MARTHA: How did you have a baby ?
AGNES: It came out of me .
MARTHA: Did you know what was going to come
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Did you want it to come out ?
AGNES: No .
MARTHA: Why ?
AGNES: Because I was afraid .
MARTHA: Why were you afraid ?
AGNES: Because I was n't worthy .
MARTHA: To be a mother ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Why ?
AGNES: May I open my eyes now ?
MARTHA: No not yet Agnes , very soon but not yet . How did the baby get into you ?
AGNES: It grew .
MARTHA: What made it grow ? Do you know ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Would you like to tell me ?
AGNES: No .
MARTHA: Did anyone else know about the baby ?
MARTHA: Will she be angry ?
AGNES: She made me promise not to .
MARTHA: Who ? Who made you promise ? It 's alright Agnes . It 's alright . Let 's go to your room . It 's the night about six weeks ago when you were very sick .
AGNES: I 'm afraid .
MARTHA: Oh do n't be , I 'm here . It 's alright . I want you to tell me what you did efore you went to bed .
AGNES: I ate .
MARTHA: Hm hmm . What did you have fo dinner ?
AGNES: Fish brussel sprouts .
MARTHA: You do n't like brussel sprouts ?
AGNES: I hate them . Martha and Mother Miriam ca n't help smiling .
MARTHA: And then what happened ?
AGNES: We went to chapel for vespers .
MARTHA: Hm hmm .
AGNES: I left early because I was n't feeling very well .
MARTHA: What is it ?
AGNES: Someone 's following me .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: Sister Marguerite I think .
MARTHA: Was it Sister Marguerite who knew about the baby ? Alright Agnes , I want you to see you oom as you saw it on that night . MARTHA Open your eyes . What do you see ?
AGNES: My bed .
MARTHA: What else ?
AGNES: A crucifix .
MARTHA: Above the bed ? Any anything else ? What do you you see , something different ? What is it ?
AGNES: A wastepaper basket .
MARTHA: Do you know who put it there ?
AGNES: No .
MARTHA: What do you think it 's there for ?
AGNES: For me to get sick in .
MARTHA: Are you ill ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: What do you feel ?
AGNES: I feel as if I 've eaten glass .
MARTHA: What do you do ?
AGNES: I have to throw up
MARTHA: Which one ?
AGNES: I do n't know which one
MARTHA: Of what ?
AGNES: Of me . Oh God ! My God Water it 's all water
MARTHA: Why is n't anyone coming ?
AGNES: They ca n't hear me that 's why . Oh God I do n't wan na
MOTHER MIRIAM: Stop her !
MARTHA: What is it ?
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: Go away , I do n't want you here .
MARTHA: Is someone in the room with you ?
AGNES: No do n't hit me please
MOTHER MIRIAM: Stop this , she 'll hurt herself I 'm not going to allow this .
MARTHA: NO no I said leave her alone .
AGNES: You 're trying to take my baby trying to take my baby no It was n't my fault Mommy it was a mistake Mommy .
MARTHA: Alright Agnes it 's alright . One , two three It 's alright it 's me , Doctor Livingston , it 's alright , alright . Thankyou Agnes , thankyou . How do you feel ?
AGNES: Frightened .
MARTHA: Do you remember what just happened ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: That 's good . Do you feel well enough to stand ?
MARTHA: There you go . It 's alright , it 's alright , it 's all over . It 's alright Agnes , that 's ight , that 's right .
MAN: Oh very interesting I guess Excuse me
MARTHA: That 's how he got in or she got out .
MAN: Oh excuse me , what did you say ?
MARTHA: Nothing . May I take some notes ?
MAN: Oh yes , Martha starts drawing a rough plan .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Is the Doctor in her office ?
HELEN: Ah , who shall I say is calling ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: General MacArthur .
HELEN: Just a minute please , you ca n't go in there .
MARTHA: It 's it 's alright Helen , just close the door .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 've just met with the bishop . We 're taking you off the case .
MARTHA: You 're what ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: If we want to hire a psychiatrist fo Agnes . we 'll find our own , thank you .
MARTHA: One that will ask the questions you want asked .
MOTHER MIRIAM: One that will approach this matte with some objectivity and respect .
MARTHA: For the Church ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: For Agnes .
MARTHA: You think she 's a saint ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She 's been touched by God , yes .
MARTHA: How ? How ? She hallucinates , stops eating and bleeds spontaneously . Is that supposed to convince me she should n't be touched . Give me a miracle .
MOTHER MIRIAM: The father !
MARTHA: Who is he ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why must he be anybody ?
MARTHA: My God , you 're as crazy as
MOTHER MIRIAM: Stop laughing , I do n't say it 's the truth , I 'm saying
MARTHA: How ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Do n't be ridiculous .
MARTHA: Well give me a reasonable explanation
MOTHER MIRIAM: A miracle is an event without an explanation . If she 's capable of putting a hole in her hand without benefit of a nail , why could n't she split a cell in he womb ?
MARTHA: This is insane .
MOTHER MIRIAM: There as no man in the convent on that night and no way for any man to get in or out .
MARTHA: You 're saying God did it ?
MARTHA: But how did it happen ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: You 'll never find the answer fo everything God did .
MARTHA: I thought you did n't believe in miracles today Mother ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: But I want the opportunity to believe . I want the choice to believe .
MARTHA: But what you are choosing to believe is a lie because you wo n't face the fact that she was raped or seduced or that she did the seducing .
MOTHER MIRIAM: She is an innocent .
MARTHA: But she is not an enigma Mother . Everything that Agnes has done is explainable from modern psychiatry . One , two , three , right down the line .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's what you believe she is ? The sum of her psychological parts ?
MARTHA: That 's what I have to believe
MOTHER MIRIAM: Then why are you so obsessed with her ? You 're losing sleep over her ? You 're thinking about her all the time . You 're bent on saving her . Why ?
MARTHA: There 's a tunnel out of the crypt into the barn . Did you know about that ? There 's an answer Mother . That 's how she got out .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's crazy . How could she find out about it ?
MARTHA: Somebody told her .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Who ? That tun that tunnel has n't een used in fifty years .
MARTHA: Oh , would you stop lying Mother !
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why would I lie ?
MARTHA: Because it 's murder we 're talking about . Are n't you concerned about what she told us about the other person in her room .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I 'm concerned about her health .
MARTHA: Who was that person Mother ? Was it you ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: If you believe this is murder , it is the Crown attorney you have to talk to , not me . And definitely not Agnes . She goes out and slams the door .
MARTHA: All I want is one more week .
LEVEAU: Why ? You 've done nothing to show any progress .
MARTHA: Yes , that 's because I 'm getting to her .
LEVEAU: You 're getting to all of us Martha , let 's face it .
MARTHA: I 'll have a decision by next week .
LEVEAU: It 's gone on long enough . You 're out .
MARTHA: Oh Joe Joe she did n't kill the baby .
LEVEAU: You have proof ?
MARTHA: I 'll have it .
LEVEAU: When ?
MARTHA: Next week .
LEVEAU: No , no , no
LEVEAU: No !
MARTHA: Tomorrow tomorrow , I 'll get it by tomorrow . I will .
LEVEAU: Yes , demain
MOTHER MIRIAM: This is permission to take her apart .
MARTHA: Where is she ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Has n't she had enough ?
MARTHA: I have a few more questions to ask her .
MOTHER MIRIAM: My God , but you 're determined . They move back into the room .
MARTHA: Who knew she was pregnant ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Why do you insist upon pressing
MARTHA: Was it you ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Is it because she 's a nun ?
MARTHA: Did you know she was pregnant ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Yes .
MARTHA: And you did n't send her to a doctor .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I did n't guess until it was too late .
MARTHA: For what ? An abortion ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , do n't be ridiculous .
MARTHA: Too late for what ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I do n't know too late to stop it .
MARTHA: The baby ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: The scandal
MARTHA: You went to the room to help with the birth .
MOTHER MIRIAM: She did n't want any help .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's a lie .
MARTHA: You hid the wastepaper basket in he oom .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I did n't hide it . I put it there for the lood and the dirty sheets .
MARTHA: And the baby .
MOTHER MIRIAM: No !
MARTHA: You tied the cord around its neck .
MOTHER MIRIAM: I wanted her to have it when no-one else was around , they would have taken the aby to a hospital and left it with them , ut it was such a difficult birth , there was so much blood and I panicked .
MARTHA: Before or after you killed the child ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: I left it with her and I went for help .
MARTHA: I doubt that 's what she 'd say .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Then she 's a liar .
MARTHA: Agnes , can you hear me ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: I want you to remember if you can a night last January . The night Siste Paul died . Do you remember .
AGNES: She said Michael .
MARTHA: What did she mean ?
AGNES: The statue . She had shown it to me the day before .
MARTHA: And the passage to the barn ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Why ?
AGNES: So I could go to him .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: Him .
MARTHA: How did she know about him ?
AGNES: She 'd seen him too .
MARTHA: Where ?
AGNES: From the belltower the day she before she died .
MARTHA: So she sent you ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Are you frightened ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: Oh Agnes
AGNES: It 's bleeding I 'm bleeding my God it wo n't stop , I ca n't get it to stop . Let go of me , I wish you were dead .
MARTHA: Agnes Agnes
AGNES: Stay away from me
MARTHA: Agnes it had nothing to do with the hand of God . He did a terrible thing to you , do you understand ?
AGNES: No
MARTHA: He frightened you and he hurt you . It 's not your fault . It 's his fault . Tell us who he is so we can find him . Stop him from doing this to other women .
AGNES: Not your fault
MARTHA: Agnes who did you see ?
AGNES: I hate him
MARTHA: Of course you do . Who was it ?
AGNES: I hate him for what he did to me .
MARTHA: Yes .
AGNES: For what he made me go through .
MARTHA: Who ?
AGNES: I hate him .
MARTHA: Agnes , who did this to you ? Agnes flings her arms back against the wall .
AGNES: God ! It was God . And now I 'll burn in hell because I hate him .
MARTHA: Agnes you wo n't burn in hell . It 's alright to hate him .
MOTHER MIRIAM: That 's enough .
MARTHA: Agnes , what happened to the baby ?
MOTHER MIRIAM: She ca n't remember .
MARTHA: What happened to the baby ?
AGNES: It was dead .
MARTHA: It was alive was n't it ?
AGNES: I do n't remember .
MOTHER MIRIAM: Oh , do n't do this !
MARTHA: Was n't it !
AGNES: YES !
MARTHA: Mother Miriam was with you was n't she ?
MARTHA: She took the baby in her arms ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: You saw it all did n't you ?
AGNES: Yes .
MARTHA: And then what did she do ? Agnes what did she do ?
AGNES: She left me alone with that little thing , and I looked at it , and I thought this is a mistake . But it 's my mistake , not Mommy 's . God 's mistake . AGNES I thought I I can save her . I can give her back to God .
MARTHA: What did you do ?
AGNES: I put her to sleep .
MARTHA: H how ?
AGNES: I tied the cord around her neck wrapped her in the bloody sheets and stuffed her in the trash can .
LEVEAU: In view of the situation as it now stands , and the testimony given here this morning , it seems quite clea that the defendant was in no manne esponsible for her actions . It is therefore the judgement of this court that she be returned to the convent of Marie Madeleine where she will be cared for under proper medical supervision by a visiting physician .
AGNES: I stood in the window of my room every night for a week . And one night I heard the most beautiful voice imaginable . And when I looked I saw the moon shining down on him . For six nights he sang to me , songs I 'd neve heard . And on the seventh night he opened his wings and lay on top of me . All the while he sang - Charlie Sweet Charlie Sweet Charlie 's a
LEVEAU: Please , remove her from the court .
SOLDIER: Get up , now ! Up !
PETROV: Thank you for joining us this evening .
TRANSLATOR: Has chosen to join our fight against tyranny in forging a new world community . Ladies and gentlemen , I give you the President of the United States of America Mr. President .
DOHERTY: Maybe we should consider running him for re-election instead of the U.S .
MARSHALL: Good evening and thank you . First I would ask you to join me in a moment of silence for the victims of the Turkmenistan massacres .
GIBBS: Gentlemen , welcome to Air Force One .
KORSHUNOV: We 've already been inspected .
GIBBS: Sir , this plane carries the President of the United States .
KORSHUNOV: Of course . I 'm sorry .
GIBBS: Please place your thumbs on the ID pad .
SHEPHERD: * CBS said they 'll give us four minutes . They thought the Russian was a nice touch .
MARSHALL: I always wondered if my freshman Russian class would come in handy .
DOHERTY: Sir , you threw out page two .
MARSHALL: Goddamn right I did . I asked for a tough-as-nails speech and you gave me diplomatic bullshit . What 's the point in having a speech if I have to ad-lib ?
DOHERTY: It was a good ad-lib , sir .
MARSHALL: Thanks . Wrote it last night .
WALTERS: Equipment checks out .
GIBBS: Gentlemen , this is Maria Mitchell .
KORSHUNOV: Ms. Mitchell . So nice to finally meet you in person .
MITCHELL: The President and I were delighted that we could accommodate you . Now if you 're all cleared ? You can follow me then . They ascend into the belly of Air Force One .
SHEPHERD: You wan na knock of f ?
MARSHALL: No , no . I 'm fine . What did the Speaker say ?
SHEPHERD: He and the NRA do n't like the wording .
DOHERTY: Apparently taking uzis away from sixth graders is n't as popular as we thought it 'd be . Representative Taylor is working on a compromise .
MARSHALL: Put together a score sheet . I 'll make some calls .
SHEPHERD: With all due respect , sir , maybe you should give them this one . You numbers are still pretty low and you called in a lot of chips to nail Stravanavitch .
MARSHALL: I might still have a few chips left .
SHEPHERD: * We could always put you in a duck blind with a twelve gauge . The second amendment types 'll love that .
MARSHALL: This is a crime bill , Shep . Killing a couple ducks wo n't get it through committee . Besides , Shep , I told you I do n't shoot babies and I do n't kiss guns .
SHEPHERD: Other way around , sir .
MARSHALL: Right Christ I 'm tired . Do me a favor and keep me away from the press .
SHEPHERD: This is the part I wanted you to see .
LARRY KING: There you have it . Harsh words fo the President from Michael Danforth , the Speaker of the House .
SHEPHERD: * My opinion . We ca n't let him get away with that kind of language . Marshall considers . Then decides .
MARSHALL: It 's bait . Do n't take it .
SHEPHERD: Sir , the Speaker of the House attacked this administration on national television . You ca n't afford to leave that hanging .
MARSHALL: Did we tape the Duke game ?
AIDE: It 's waiting on the plane . The ending was pretty
MARSHALL: Please do n't tell me . Just for once , * let me be surprised .
MITCHELL: Up on the upper deck is the cockpit and the Mission Communication Center . The MCC , as we call it , can place clear and secure phone calls to anywhere on earth . We 're linked to a network of military and civilian satellites and ground stations . We could run the country or run a wa from there if we had to .
KORSHUNOV: This is a remarkable aircraft .
MITCHELL: You do n't know the half of it . Did you know this entire plane is shielded from radiation ? We could fly through a mushroom cloud completely unharmed if necessary .
KORSHUNOV: A dubious distinction , no ?
MITCHELL: I guess it depends on you perspective .
KORSHUNOV: And all these rooms here ?
MITCHELL: Conference rooms , though some have other functions . The one up front doubles as an emergency medical center .
KORSHUNOV: Thank you .
REPORTER: You fellas win some sort of fly-with- POTUS contest ?
KORSHUNOV: Potus ? What is Potus ?
REPORTER: P.O.T.U.S . President Of The United States .
KORSHUNOV: Ah , no . We won nothing . We are ITAR-TASS news service .
REPORTER: Right . Listen , this here This is my row . You 'll have to sit ove there . Korshunov trades looks with his news team .
COL. AXELROD: Welcome aboard , Mr. President .
MARSHALL: Hey Danny . How 's it look tonight ?
COL. AXELROD: Glassy , sir . Care to take the wheel ?
MARSHALL: You keep offering , one of these days I 'll take you up on it . Rose and Alice back yet ?
AIDE: No , Mr. President . The ballet ran late . Their ETA is seventeen minutes .
SHEPHERD: Mr. President ? Marshall halts Shepherd with a gesture .
MARSHALL: Thirty seconds .
SHEPHERD: Can I at least issue a press release objecting to the Speaker 's choice of wording ?
MARSHALL: I said it 's not worth the fight . Steward , please .
SHEPHERD: We 'll just say it was in bad taste .
SHEPHERD: You give me ulcers .
MARSHALL: That 's my job . A STEWARD enters the room .
STEWARD: Mr. President ?
MARSHALL: Hey Mike . Could you get me a Heineken ?
SHEPHERD: No , wait . Get him one of the Russian eers .
MARSHALL: C'mon Shep . I 've been eating borscht and drinking vodka for days . Is n't that enough ? New home starts are down .
STEWARD: Yes , Mr. President .
MARSHALL: I do n't believe this . I 'm playing politics with a bottle of beer . A goddamn bottle of beer . I 've been in office too long .
SHEPHERD: Look on the bright side if the polls do n't change , you wo n't have that problem , sir . Marshall picks up the phone again .
MARSHALL: Yeah . Put the Duke game on in my oom .
SHEPHERD: Yes , sir .
MARSHALL: Get me the Housing Secretary
ROSE: C'mon Alice , we 're 20 minutes late . Your father 's gon na have a fit .
ALICE: It 's not like he has n't made us wait a few times .
ROSE: Well , you are n't the President , dear .
ALICE: Yeah , no duh .
ROSE: Why do n't you go say hi ? Again , Alice rolls her eyes .
ALICE: I 'm sure he 's busy .
ROSE: Do n't you even want to ask ?
ALICE: If I go over there to say hi to daddy President , Mike 's going to tell me he 's in a meeting and ca n't be disturbed . Then when the plane starts to taxi , he 'll come out and say & quot ; Hey , are you guys back ? Did you enjoy the ballet ? & quot ; But he 'll be on his way to another meeting and wo n't wait for an answer . Then you 'll get pissed at him and he 'll get pissed at you . It 's like you guys rehearse or something .
ROSE: Alice
ALICE: Mom , just this once , give it a rest .
ROSE: You 're jet-lagged . We 'll talk about this back
ALICE: Back at The Fishbowl ?
ROSE: We 'll talk at home . You know , most girls are n't as lucky as you . For most girls seeing the Bolshoi ballet would be the experience of a lifetime .
ALICE: I know , Mom . It was great really .
ROSE: I 'm sorry , honey .
ALICE: No , it 's okay . After all , he is the President , right ?
ROSE: Your father never means to be so
ALICE: I know But lotsa times I feel like it 's me versus the world . Some kid at school teases me and the same day a plague eaks out in Bangladesh . I mean it does n't take a genius to figure which is more important .
ROSE: Some kids were teasing you ?
ALICE: That 's not really the point . A quiet pause , then
ROSE: You 're right and I 'll tell you a secret . I know exactly how you feel .
ALICE: Big secret . You said the same thing to Newsweek . The plane jolts forward as it begins to taxi .
MARSHALL: Hey , you guys back already ? Alice nods .
ALICE: It was the experience of a lifetime .
MARSHALL: How ` bout a hug for the old man .
SHEPHERD: Mr. President they 're ready fo you in the conference room .
MARSHALL: Okay . Hey , pumpkin , you 'll tell me all about it later , right ?
ALICE: Sure .
ROSE: May I speak to you for a moment ?
MARSHALL: Ca n't it wait ?
ROSE: No , Mr. President . It ca n't .
MARSHALL: Rose , I do n't have time for this . I 've got ta go stop a war .
ROSE: For godsakes , Jim , slow down and stop acting like the little dutch oy . Not even you can plug all the world 's leaks . Do n't you think it 's a sign you 're pushing too hard when your daughter sees more of you on MTV news than in person .
MARSHALL: She 's a big girl . She understands .
ROSE: How do you know she understands ? You have n't spent more than five minutes with her , or me , in weeks .
MARSHALL: And when have I had five minutes ? When I wake up in the morning and I 'm already three hours behind Schedule . What do you want me to do , Rose , tell the G7 to fuck off ecause I 'm a family man ?
BEAT: I 'm sorry . That was n't fair .
ROSE: No . It was n't . He takes her in his arms .
MARSHALL: You know what ?
ROSE: What ?
MARSHALL: I miss you . And I miss her .
ROSE: But that 's the point , Jim . We 're ight here .
MARSHALL: I wish it were that easy
ROSE: I should trust that promise ? Because you know the voters are still waiting for that middle class tax cut .
MARSHALL: This promise is n't subject to Congressional approval . She smiles . The tension breaks .
ROSE: How did your speech go ?
MARSHALL: Well , they are n't burning me in effigy . That 's always a good sign .
ROSE: Shall I ask the Chief of Staff to schedule your daughter in ?
SHEPHERD: She is scheduled . Her school play 's Tuesday night . Rose rolls her eyes .
MARSHALL: The First Lady was making a joke , Shep . I 'll make some time , Rose . I promise . Marshall heads for his meeting .
THICK ACCENT: United States Air Force One , this is tower . It 's an honor to clear you for immediate take-off on runway three .
COL. AXELROD: Roger , Tower . And thank you for the hospitality .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Our KH-ll 's took this one at 0100 hours . What you see here is the mobilization of two mechanized igades .
MARSHALL: They 've got ta be joking .
DOHERTY: The Iraqi ambassador is claiming it 's just an exercise .
MARSHALL: An exercise in futility . Send the Nimitz back in .
MAJOR CALDWELL: The northern border 's gotten a bit hairy . Their MiGs are playing tag with our Tomcats and our boys are just itching to engage .
MARSHALL: Tell our boys to cool their jets . I do n't need ` em creating policy fo me .
GIBBS: Hey Walters , you and Johnson come here a second . Reykjavik just sent the advance team report .
BAZYLEV: UP ! GET UP NOW !
GIBBS: Come on ! Quickly .
COL. AXELROD: Ranstein Air Base , this is Air Force One Heavy . We have a code red . Shots fired onboard , request priority edirect . Please acknowledge .
MARSHALL: What 's going on ?
ZEDECK: Down ! Everybody down .
COL. AXELROD: Changing course heading to 276 point five . Dropping to twenty thousand feet . Shots can be heard outside .
ALICE: Daddy Alice opens the door and rushes
SERGE: Down ! Everyone down !
COL. AXELROD: This is Air Force One Heavy . I 'm coming in full throttle . ETA to Ranstein eight minutes . We 've got a war here , sir .
MARSHALL: What about my family ?
COT. AXELROD: Ramstein/Air Force One Emergency pod has been deployed . I repeat , emergency pod has been deployed .
NEVSKY: Your father has left you behind .
ROSE: NO !
ZEDECK: Open ! Now !
COT. AXELROD: Ramatein , we are fifteen miles away on final approach . I 'm coming in fast and will need every inch of unway .
COL. AXELROD: Almost there .
BAZYLEV: Keep moving !
GIBBS: Throttle up . Throttle up !
ZEDECK: Bearing 110 point eight two .
GIBBS: Call me if something changes .
ZEDECK: That 's it ?
GIBBS: To fly a 747 you need to know three things . How to take of f , how to land , and how to engage the autopilot .
KORSHUNOV: The rest of the secret service ?
GIBBS: Dead .
KORSHUNOV: How many others killed ?
GIBBS: Nine .
KORSHUNOV: Any of us ? Gibbs touches his bulletproof vest .
GIBBS: No damages .
ROSE: Where 's my daughter ?
GIBBS: She 's alive , ma'am , for the time eing . Rose allows herself a half-sob of relief .
ROSE: And my husband ?
GIBBS: The secret service did their job , ma'am . The President is safely off the plane . But that still leaves us plenty to argain with .
ROSE: Mr. Gibbs . You , of all people Gibbs does n't react .
GIBBS: Follow me , ma'am .
V.P. CHANDLER: We should have the President secure within minutes . Do we know who these terrorists are or where they 're going ?
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: General Greely says it looks like the Middle East .
V.P. CHANDLER: Does your office have anything to add , Mr. Dean ?
DEAN: The garners believe that , given the scenario , there 's an 86 % chance that
V.P. CHANDLER: If we 're dealing with an airborne hostage situation what 's ou procedure ?
LEE: Our only policy assumes the plane is on the ground . Our hands are completely tied while they 're in the air .
V.P. CHANDLER: Okay , Gentlemen , we 'll take no action until we confirm that the president is off the plane Lee , go huddle with the D.O.D . I want an options paper on this in 20 minutes .
LEE: Twenty minutes ?
V.P. CHANDLER: You heard me . You . Congress and cabinet heads . The aide nods and picks up a telephone .
COL. CARLTON: Roger . We all wish Now shut the fuck up and escort .
NEVSKY: Every weapon and every person is accounted for . Korshunov nods and enters the room .
KORSHUNOV: Fear will keep you alive . Any one who is not afraid is bound to do something foolish , and bound to die .
ROSE: What do you want with us ?
KORSHUNOV: Cooperation . If you try to escape , you will be met with automatic gunfire and a barricade of your comrade 's odies will prevent you from exiting . Good day .
DOHERTY: This ca n't be happening . You just do n't pull this shit with the United States . You just do n't .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Keep your heads . Caldwell paces , looks around the room .
SHEPHERD: Mrs. Marshall , are you okay ?
ROSE: We 're alive .
SHEPHERD: That 's all that matters . Thank god the President got of f the plane .
ROSE: Yes thank God . You there Caidwell , right ? What 's on your mind ? caldwell takes a beat , then crosses to Rose and Shepherd .
MAJOR CALDWELL: I do n't want to get anybody here excited , but if we can get out of this room , I can get us to safety .
SHEPHERD: We 're thirty five thousand feet up .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Yes , sir , that 's a problem , but if we can somehow get to a lowe altitude , the rear loading ramp on the baggage deck is equipped with parachutes in case of an engine failure . Now we can either wait fo a political resolution , or try to esolve this thing ourselves .
DOHERTY: You 're goddamn right we can resolve this ourselves . We 'll negotiate .
SHEPHERD: You know the President 's policy .
DOHERTY: The President is n't here .
ROSE: Right now we are an enormous liability to the United States . We ca n't just sit and do nothing .
VIAD: Standing guard , facing the opposite direction .
KORSHUNOV: Proceed .
V.P. CHANDLER: Find that voice for me , I want to know who we 're dealing with . And get President Petrov on the phone .
GENERAL GREELY: Madame Vice-President , we just got word from Ramstein The nod was UntiL Chandler stands .
V.P. CHANDLER: Empty ?
GENERAL GREELY: The President he must still be onboard .
V.P. CHANDLER: Play back that call .
TECHNICAL OFFICER: Yes , sir .
V.P. CHANDLER: but not the President . Not the President . A silent beat .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: He 's dead then . They must have killed him .
DEAN: We do n't know that .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Holding the president hostage is not something that slips your mind when you 're making demands .
V.P. CHANDLER: And if he 's dead ? Do you really think they 'd risk telling us ?
DEAN: There is a possibility we 're overlooking . All eyes turn to Dean .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Walter , if you have a point , make it .
DEAN: That kid 's name was Jim Marshall .
V.P. CHANDLER: So what are you saying ?
DEAN: Maybe he 's alive on that plane and those bastards do n't even know it .
V.P. CHANDLER: Mr. Dean , may I remind you that the President is not 19 anymore .
MARSHALL: Goddamnit .
MAJOR CALDWELL: This is a dead end .
VLAD: Get on the floor , now !
VIAD: The President . But Marshall 's eyes flash open .
MARSHALL: That 's right , asshole .
MARSHALL: I do n't think so .
NEVSKY: Viad ?
MARSHALL: Where are th*y ? fly tamily , the crew . where are they ? Nevsky says nothing . The conference room , right ? Right ? Marshall jerks him to his feet .
NEVSKY: KORSKUNOV !
SHIT1: INT . CORRIDOR .
KORSHUNOV: Go after him .
SERGE: I know you 're in there . Come on out . Okay . Have it your way .
MARSHALL: The NRA 'll love this .
PETROV: I understand your dilemma , Vice President Chandler . But unless you can confirm that your President is indeed a hostage , I can not release Stravanavitch . If Marshall is dead , no good will come of meeting this demand . We both know he would agree .
LEE: Madame Vice president . We have an options paper . chandler takes the options paper , waves off Lee , and eads it as she talks .
V.P. CHANDLER: Yes . You 've made yourself quite clear .
V.P. CHANDLER: Can we do that ?
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: We 've got four hours before they make it into Turkienistan airspace .
V.P. CHANDLER: But they start executing hostages in
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: I hate to be pragmatic , but they 'll sacrifice pawns before kings . It may take them some time to kill thei way up to senior staff .
V.P. CHANDLER: Okay . Also , I want you to put ou ases in Turkey on alert , and have the Kitty Hawk prepare a retaliatory air strike .
V.P. CHANDLER: I 've not discounted your theory Hr . Dean
DEAN: No I got the new numbers from ou gamers . They believe that there 's only an eight percent chance that the President is still alive .
V.P. CHANDLER: Eight percent is better than zero . Oh shit what is that ?
GENERAL GREELY: That 's trouble .
V.P. CHANDLER: Would someone get the Press Secretary !
AIDE: He 's been holding on line four .
KORSHUNOV: Who did this ?
GIBBS: We checked the manifest . Everyone was accounted for .
KORSHUNOV: A secret service agent . It must be . Wounded but alive . Serge , Bazylev Find him .
ROSE: Come on , Alice .
ALICE: I 'm scared .
DOHERTY: You 've got the better part of the White House locked in this room , you know . If you want to negotiate , we 're the ones to do it with .
KORSHUNOV: Mrs. Marshall . Alice . If you please . Rose turns to the other hostages .
ROSE: It 's okay . Do what you 're told . It 's okay . We 'll be okay .
MARSHALL: Goddamnit . He ca n't remember the number . He dials CLOSE.ON PHONE -555-1212 Information . The phone rings
VOICE: Yes , sir . Can I help you ?
MARSHALL: Yes , the number for the White House .
ALICE: I do n't drink coffee .
KORSHUNOV: You must be tired . It 'll wake you up .
ALICE: No , thank you . The gunfire did that .
ROSE: Leave my daughter alone .
KORSHUNOV: Or you will do what , Mrs. Marshall ? But I admire your courage . You husband , on the other hand
ROSE: What do you know of my husband ?
KORSHUNOV: I know he left you behind .
ROSE: My husband is a very courageous man .
KORSHUNOV: Your husband is a coward . He sends soldiers half-way around the world to steal a man from his home in the middle of the night . Alice sits up , attentive .
ALICE: You 're one of Stravanavitch 's men .
KORSHUNOV: So , you study world events , little one . That 's good for a girl you age .
ALICE: Yeah , I study world events . Five thousand Turkienistan Muslims were slaughtered in Stravanvitch 's cleansings along with 15 American school kids . You know hQw I studied that . I went to their funerals with my dad . I met their parents .
KORSHUNOV: Smart for your age , eh ? Top of you class ? Tell me , do you know what the word & quot ; propaganda & quot ; means ?
ALICE: Yeah . Do you know what the word & quot ; asshole & quot ; means .
ROSE: Alice !
KORSHUNOV: Yes , I have heard that word . He aims his gun at Alice .
SWITCHBOARD: White House switchboard . How may I direct your call .
MARSHALL: Okay listen , listen carefully . This is an emergency call from Air Force One . Who 's there ? Is the Vice- President there ?
SWITCHBOARD: who can I say is calling ?
MARSHALL: Do n't cut me off . This is an emergency .
SWITCHBOARD: Sir , the President does not call this particular number . So whoeve you are get a life , before I have this call traced .
MARSHALL: You do n't understand . This is an emergency . Let me talk to anyone .
SWITCHBOARD: Okay if you 're the President , when 's your wife 's birthday ?
MARSHALL: Look lady , I do n't have time fo games . Just put the .
SWITCHBOARD: Thank you for calling the white House
MARSHALL: No . no . no . Wait . Wait .
SWITCHBOARD: Sir ? Are you there ? Sir ? Sir ?
BAZ YLEV: Hands away from your weapon .
BAZYLEV: Come now . You do n't want to die .
BAZYUV: What 's that in your shirt ? Open it .
BAZYLEV: Take it off . Now .
V.P. CHANDLER: My intention is not to escalate the situation , but it 's a contigency that must be considered . Hang on What ?
AIDE: The switchboard says that someone called in claiming to be the President , then she heard gunfire . Caller 's gone , but the line 's still active .
DEAN: Could be some crank watching CNN .
AIDE: No sir . Trace confirms the call is Coming from a White House staff cellular account .
V.P. CHANDLER: Put it through down here . Hang on , Toni .
DEAN: Max , get me Willis .
WILLIS: Tracking Intercepting call Got it . Ten seconds , Mr. Dean .
V.P. CHANDLER: It 's him . He is alive .
BAZYLEV: I 'm going to take your weapon now , and then I 'm going to take you Upstairs to join the others . Understand ?
DEAN: Christ , they have him .
BAZYLEV: And if you make any sudden moves , I will not hesitate to shoot .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Maybe they do n't have him yet .
GENERAL NORTPNOOD: General Greely , Air Force One has automatic countermeasures , right ?
GENERAL GREELY: Everything we own is in that plane .
GENERAL NORTINOOD: So a single missile launched from a distance should be a mere distraction .
GENERAL GREELY: Theoretically .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Ramutein Tower Control , please .
GENERAL GREELY: But the effect could be jarring .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Exactly . Ramstein ? General Northwood Patch me through to your fighters . Madame Vice President with your permission ?
V.P. CHANDLER: Do it .
BAZ YLEV: So you 're the President . Somehow , I thought you 'd be smaller .
BAZYLEV: Not so powerful now , eh ? No aides to advise you , no secret service to protect you , no armies to command .
MARSHALL: * So will you .
BAZYLEV: Up . Get up now !
MARSHALL: Do you know what 's going to happen to you because of this ? Do you know what the world will do ?
BAZYLEV: Nothing . The world will do nothing . That is what they 've always done .
COL. CARLTON: Roger , sir . Okay boys , clear the deck . I have been ordered to engage Air Force One .
ZEDECK: What is this ?
BAZYLEV: Do n't move !
GIBBS: What the hell 's going on ?
ZEDECK: The Americans fired at us . The Tactical Countermeasures Computer
GIBBS: Why would they fire on us ? The Tactical Countermeasures Computer & quot ; Missile Closing Metallic Chaff Burst Standing by & quot ;
ZEDECK: Do something . Five Four
GIBBS: I 'm not a combat pilot . Three two .
ZEDECK: Shit !
GIBBS: We 're okay .
KORSHUNOV: Remarkable aircraft . Remarkable .
GIBBS: why did they do that ?
KORSHUNOV: Psychology . They 're trying to unnerve us .
GIBBS: Well it worked .
KORSHUNOV: Relax , my friend . Apparently they can not harm us . Even if they wanted to . rNT . FRONT GALLEY .
BAZYLEV: The leader of the free world .
ALICE: Mom ?
ROSE: Yes dear ?
ALICE: I 'm sorry I was so mean to you earlier . Rose smiles sadly .
ROSE: I know , sweetie . I know . You 're being very brave . Alice nods . She 's trying .
SERGE: He 's not up here . I 'm going down elow .
MARSHALL: Did they say anything about my family ?
V.P. CHANDLER: They 're still alive , but the loyalists plan to start killing hostages in forty minutes .
MARSHALL: Then tell me there 's a rescue operation underway .
V.P. CHANDLER: and if that means negotiating
MARSHALL: You know my policy . We do n't negotiate with terrorists . If we start now , all of America becomes a target .
V.P. CHANDLER: But this is different , sir . You 're the President .
V.P. CHANDLER: Please , Mr. President . You 're going to get yourself killed . Is that you solution ?
MARSHALL: Freeing Stravanavitch is gon na get tens of thousands killed . I ca n't live with that . I 'm not royalty . I 'm an elected official and the integrity of the office of the President is infinitely more important than the man who holds that office . We do n't negotitate . Not as long as I 'm President . Is that understood ? A long silence , then
LEE: He 's not on a secure line .
DEAN: I 'm here , Mr. President .
MARSHALL: Where 's the cavalry ?
DEAN: We ca n't do anything until that plane lands . And when it does land , sir , it 's going to be in hostile * territory . To be perfectly honest , we do n't know what the hell to do .
MARSHALL: I 'll see what I can do .
SERGE: Bazylev is dead . Korshunov swallows hard
SERGE: Trapped On the baggage deck . Let me go finish him .
KORSHUNOV: No . He has the advantage down there . Bring me a hostage . A woman .
SERGE: You . Come with me .
MARSHALL: What the hell
KORSHUNOV: Ms. Mitchell . Hello again .
ROSE: Maria . Korshunov switches on the airplane 's P.A .
KORSHUNOV: * Please tell me your name .
MITCHELL: Maria Maria Mitchell .
KORSHUNOV: And what is it you do , Ms. Mitchell .
MITCHELL: Scared . We 're scared .
KORSHUNOV: And why are you scared ?
MITCHEL L: Because because I do n't want to die .
KORSHUNOV: And what am I doing at this very moment .
MITCHELL: You 're pointing a gun at me .
KORSHUNOV: Very good . Thank you , Ms. Mitchell .
MARSHALL: NO !
ROSE: Do you have to be so brutal ?
KORSHUNOV: Yes
ROSE: Why ? Do you enjoy it ?
KORSHUNOV: I neither enjoy nor dislike . I do what is necessary .
ROSE: How can you ? I mean they 're people .
KORSHUNOV: But they are not ny people . You look at me as if I am a monster , but answe me this when your planes bombed the oil fields of Iraq , did You cry for those dark skinned men whose names you do not know and who 's faces You will never see ? Did You cry fo their wives and children . They were people too , yes but they were not your people .
ROSE: That was war .
KORSHUNOV: So is this . Come now , you 're upsetting the little one .
ALICE: The woman you shot . She was my friend .
KORSHUNOV: That 's the way of the world , little one . Did n't they teach you that in school ?
VOICE: Chief Mechanic , 87th Air . How can I help you ?
MARSHALL: You can talk me through an emergency fuel dump .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Led off to slaughter one at a time .
SHEPHERD: They can shoot enough of us .
MAJOR CALDWELL: If we do n't act , they 'll kill US all eventually Who 's with me ? Several of the hostages raise their hands .
CHIEF MECHANIC: Do you see the maintenance panel ?
MARSHALL: Got it .
CHIEF MECHANIC: Pop it open . There should be a red switch , toggle it up .
MARSHALL: Okay , it 's on . We 've got some indicator lights here .
CHIEF MECHANIC: Okay , you 're aerated . To dump the fuel you have to close the circuit for the pump . There 's no switch in Avionics so you 'll have to cross the wires . There should be five wires , just to your left . Do you see them ?
MARSHALL: Got ` en . Static blankets the conversation .
CHIEF MECHANIC: Okay , hang on . Let me double check
MARSHALL: I 'll wait . The static worsens .
CHIEF MECHANIC: First cut green wire .
MARSHALL: It 's cut .
CHIEF MECHANIC: cross it The static overwhelms the voice , then cuts out .
MARSHALR': Hello ? Hello ? Goddamnit .
MARSHALL: An emergency landing in friendly territory there 's your goddamn miracle .
GIBBS: Goddamnit it . We 're losing fuel . Korshunov crosses to the flight deck .
KORSHUNOV: How ?
GIBBS: Avionics compartment ! It 's the only place . You better get Zedeck down there fast Unless , of course , you 'd ather be a martyr than a savior .
KORSHUNOV: Go ! Take Serge.. and watch your backs . Zedeck nods and dashes out of the cabin .
ZEDECK: He 's down here . I can feel it .
SERGE: Shut up and do your job .
ZEDECK: You see him ?
SERGE: Erring on the side of caution .
ZEDECK: I 'm going to deactivate the by-pass pump . It 'll take a minute .
GIBBS: We 've stopped dumping but we 've only got about twenty minutes of fuel left .
KORSHUNOV: We 're not going to make it .
GIBBS: Not even close . Hell , we ca n't even make Syria or Iraq .
KORSHUNOV: Where are we now ?
GIBBS: Over the Black Sea . I can probably get us to Turkey or Georgia .
KORSHUNOV: No ! If we land this plane anywhere else , we will end up another Entebe . The Americans built a super plane that flies through mushroom cloud , evades missiles and efuels in mid-air . Call the White House .
AIDE: It 's him again .
KORSHUNOV: Gentlemen , forgive me for diverting you from your little wargames , but I 've just added another demand to my very short list . I assure you it 's quite reasonable .
LEE: Finally , we can bargain .
V.P. CHANDLER: I 'm sure we can strike some sort of arrangement . Land the plane and we 'll trade you hostages for fuel .
KORSHUNOV: No . The plane lands when I say , o it will crash . The hostages are eleased when I say , or they will die .
ROSE: No .
KORSHUNOV: Say something dear .
ALICE: Fuck off , you stupid asshole .
KORSHUNOV: It would be a pity to squander such a strong personality . Another several beats of hushed murmuring .
ZEDECK: We have the hostages , we 're getting more fuel .
KORSHUNOV: He 's already killed three of us , and we have n't even seen him . He 's also shown that he can hurt us . I need to think . What the hell are you doing up here ? Get back to the conference room .
MARSHALL: Do n't make the same mistake you friend did earlier Show me you hands .
SHEPHERD: Mr. President , how the hell did you get on board ?
MARSHALL: I never left . Where 's my wife and daughter ?
MAJOR CALDWELL: They took ` em out . They 're probably on the upper deck .
SHEPHERD: Mr. President , Major Caldwell here has a plan to get these hostages of f the plane .
MARSHALL: I dumped most of the fuel . They 'll land soon and Delta will take its shot .
SERGE: A refueling plane is already on it 's way so we wo n't be landing until we each Turkmenistan . Your best course of action is to release me . I will e merciful .
MARSHALL: Mr. Caidwell , the ground 's a few miles away . How do you propose getting us from here to there ?
MAJOR CALDWELL: Gravity .
DEAN: Of the three dozen airports in Turkmenistan , only five have sufficient runways for a 747 . Of those five , only these three have shown any activity .
GENERAL NORTPNOOD: But this one here , see this . It 's a satellite dish and it was n't there two weeks ago . Basic communications uplink , which suggests extensive communicatins ability . I 'd say this was the one .
V.P. CHANDLER: Are you confident you can take the facility ?
GENERAL NORTIWOOD: It 's night there for a few more hours . That 's a real plus . But I wo n't lie . As far as special ops go , this one 's a bear , but I think we squeeze it out .
V.P. CHANDLER: Let 's get it going .
AIDE: The Press Secretary 's about to go on .
MAJOR CALDWELL: If we can get to a lower altitude , we can use parachutes , but at this altitude , we 'll pass out from Oxygen deprivation .
MARSHALL: We 've already played our cards , Major . There 's no turning back .
MAJOR CALDWELL: We ca n't jump from here or at this speed . But if we could get a message out - tell the refueling plane
MARSHALL: They 've cut communication , and I spent a good bit of time looking fo alternatives . My only solution ran out of batteries . A nearby SECRETARY in her late 20 's pipes up .
SECRETARY: The fax machines .
MARSHALL: Excuse me ?
SECRETARY: The fax machines .
MARSHALL: No good . I said they disabled the communications system .
SECRETARY: No . I thought about this , Mr .
MARSHALL: Get ` em ready . You come with me .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Eighteen thousand feet , sir . And two hundred knots otherwise it 's suicide .
MARSHALL: Got it .
PRESS SECRETARY: Please . Quiet please First let me Please I have a prepared statement The White House confirms that the President 's aircraft , Ai Force One , has been hijacked and is currently controlled by foreign nationals . Murmurs , shouts , and more questions .
REPORTERS: Is the President onboard ? / What about the First Family ? / What are thei demands ?
PRESS SECRETARY: Please please For security easons I can not comment on any specifics except to say that the Vice-President is doing everything within her power to resolve the situation .
PULL BACK: T.V . monitor on broadcasting CNN . We 're in the
KORSHUNOV: And you are almost out of time . Where is the President ?
SECRETARY: Here sir .
MARSHALL: White House Situation room .
SECRETARY: Actually , sir , you could be that someone .
MARSHALL: It 's yours .
ZEDECK: Still no movement on Stravanavitch . Korshunov eyes Alice and Rose .
ROSE: Nor will there be . My husband does not negotiate with terrorists .
KORSHUNOV: You will be the first to pay fo that mistake .
MAJOR CALDWELL: These chutes are designed for a safe slow descent . They 'll deploy off the line automatically as you step from the plane . You guys 'll have to pull your own ip cords . Wait until you 're clea from the plane , but not any longer . Once I check you , go stand behind the yellow line . You 're good . You 're good . You 're good .
MAJOR CAWWELL: Your chute .
MARSHALL: I 'll not going without my family .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Yes , sir .
GIBBS: Where 's that goddamn plane ? tNT .
MAJOR CALOWELL: That 's it , eighteen thousand feet . We 're ready .
MARSHALL: What about them ?
MAJOR CALDWELL: Sir , we stay with the President .
MARSHALL: That is n't necessary . None of them changes his mind .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Relax everybody . I used to do this for a living9 Caidwell pulls a switch on the wall .
MARSHALL: Hey , by the way who won the Duke game ?
AIDE: Find out for yourself , sir . I 'll have it waiting at the White House . Marshall smiles .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Here we go .
KORSHUNOV: What 's that ?
COL. CARLTON: Here they come .
GIBBS: She 's bucking . I ca n't hold her !
COL. CARLTON: Everybody break . Now ! Now ! Now !
ZEDECK: Do n't move .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Let me save him . Marshall barely hangs on .
ZEDECK: That man , he is the president , no ?
SHEPHERD: Yes . Yes he is .
KORSHUNOV: Fuel ? Gibbs checks the guages .
GIBBS: More than enough to get us home .
V.P. CHANDLER: They still have the President , it 's past their deadline and they have n't called . What do you think it means ?
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Like any good poker player , they 're checking over their hand seeing which cards to play and which to discard .
ALICE: He did n't leave us .
KORSHUNOV: You are a resilient man , Mr. President .
KORSHUNQV: You must forgive the tape , but we were starting to feel outnumbered Gibbs !
MARSHALL: Special Agent Gibbs . You helped do this ?
GIBBS: Yes , Mr. President .
MARSHALL: Why ?
GIBBS: Because it is my duty .
MARSHALL: You 're duty to what ? The country you served does n't exist anymore .
GIBBS: My loyalty was never to my country . I serve my commanding officers .
KORSHUNOV: You do n't think the leaders of the KGB would allow peristroika to ruin years of infiltration ? No , when the Soviet Union collapsed , we took ou sleepers with us . Korshunov holds up a telephone .
MARSHALL: Over my dead body .
KORSHUNOV: No . But since I only have a few of your staff left to kill , perhaps I will start with your family instead Gibbs .
ROSE: Please . You can kill me but leave my daughter alone . Korshunov runs his finger down Alice 's cheek .
MARSHALL: She is n't a part of this . This is etween you and me .
KORSHUNOV: Call up Petrov and orde Stravanavitch ' S release .
MARSHALL: This administration does not negotiate with terrorists .
KORSHUNOV: Pity . Mr. Gibbs .
ALICE: Daddy
MARSHALL: Alice I
KORSHUNOV: And once the trigger is pulled , she is gone forever . Then , I wonder , how do you live , knowing you could 've saved her ? Marshall struggles with his duty . His honor .
ALICE: Daddy . Daddy , please
ROSE: Jim for godsake !
KORSHUNOV: Look inside your heart . No one will think you weak . Five Alice 's face , trying to be brave .
ROSE: Jim
KORSHUNOV: Three Rose looks away .
MARSHALL: NO !
KORSHUNOV: You 'll do it ?
MARSHALL: Yes , I 'll do it . Just leave my family alone .
KORSHUNOV: Good . Good .
MARSHALL: Someday , you 'll regret my nature .
KORSHUNOV: You do n't like seeing people get hurt . Now in morality , that is a virtue . In politics , however , that is weakness . You were a hostage to everyone else * long before you were a hostage to
AIDE: Sir , the President of the United States wishes to speak with you .
PETROV: Mr. President .
GUARD: Stravanavitch .
ROSE: Can my husband sit next to me ?
MARSHALL: Please do n't start with me .
ROSE: There 's something I need to tell you and God knows if I 'll eve get another chance .
MARSHALL: And you have always been my guardian angel . She smiles back at him .
ROSE: I will never regret my life with you .
SERGE: It 's confirmed . Stravanavitch is on his way out . Our men are waiting outside .
ROSE: You got what you wanted . You going to release us now ?
KORSHUNOV: You 're very valuable . And our nation needs so many things .
MARSHALL: Could I Could I have some water ?
KORSHUNOV: The taste of defeat is bitter , no ?
MARSHALL: One thing I 've learned as
KORSHUNOV: e Very poetic . Zedeck arrives with a glass of water .
MARSHALL: And there 's one thing I 've learned from being a sports fan .
KORSHUNOV: And that is ?
MARSHALL: It ai n't over , til it 's over .
MAJOR CALDWELL: Mr. President . Korshunov fires at Marshall , but
KORSHUNOV: Do n't be hasty .
MARSHALL: Shepherd .
SHEPHERD: Sir
MARSHALL: Call Petrov I 'll be back .
ROSE: Both of you .
PETROV: Petrov . Petrov 's eyes widen .
GUARD: Halt ! Halt !
PETROV: What is it ?
AIDE: It 's about Stravanvaitch .
PETROV: What about him ?
AIDE: He 's dead , sir . Shot while trying to escape . A beat .
PETROV: So be it . The world will sleep easier . Petrov turns out his bedside light .
COL. CARLTON: They 've changed their bearing . Air Force One . Air Force One . Over Air Force One please respond
ROSE: Easy , Major . Easy .
MAJOR CALDWELL: The President ?
ROSE: You saved his life .
MARSHALL: It 's over , Korshunov . You won . Now let her go . He listens , footsteps ahead of him .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: They are n't answering their hails .
DEAN: This does n't make sense .
V.P. CHANDLER: How close are they ?
LEE: The Iraqi Ambassador wo n't take ou calls . We 're trying to get through to their Central Command .
DEAN: To tell them what ? The great infidel himself is flying overhead , Go get him ? This is a man they burn in effigy daily .
V.P. CHANDLER: If challenged , our fighters are to state that they are on a rescue mission .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Iraqi 's wo n't buy it . Either they 're already in on this or they 'll think we 're spying .
V.P. CHANDLER: If fired upon , tell our fighters that they are ordered to engage .
ALICE: Dad , look out .
MARSHALL: How you doing , sweetie ?
ALICE: Been better , Dad You ?
COL. CARLTON: Air Force one please respond . Ai Force One , you are entering hostile air space . Air Force one All Carlton receives is static .
KORSHUNOV: Stay where you are .
MARSHALL: Let my daughter go or I 'll take you out !
KORSHUNOV: If you put down the gun , I promise not to drop her on the way down .
MARSHALL: Let her go now ! Or I will kill you .
KORSHUNOV: No you wo n't . You 'll compromise like always .
MARSHALL: Hold on , Alice .
ALICE: NO !
MARSHALL: It 's okay , honey . I got you . I got you . You 're okay .
IRAQI SOLDIER: The Americans say they are escorting a damaged plane . Our pilots confirm they are surrounding a 747 .
CERALLOS: Did we warn them off ?
IRAQI SOLDIER: Yes . They refused to alter course and the 747 would not answer ou hails .
CERALLOS: It 's some kind of trick a preliminary airstrike in response to our troop movement .
IRAQI SOLDIER: They are in our airspace . We would e within our rights .
CERALLOS: The world would not look on us kindly if we shot down a civilian airliner .
IRAQI SOLDIER: The pilot says it is does not have the markings of a commercial jet .
CERALLOS: Warn then again . If they do n't espond shoot them down . We will not be intimidated .
MARSHALL: What is that sound ? Marshall makes his way to the cockpit .
SHEPHERD: A MiG ? Where the hell are we ?
MARSHALL: They 're flying a protection formation . Call D.C. Find out what 's going on .
COL. CARLTON: I said back off and hold your fire .
AIDE: It 's the Chief of Staff calling from Air Force One . They 've retaken control of the aircraft .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: Then tell him to get the fuck out of Iraq .
SHEPHERD: Iraq , sir . We 're over Iraq .
MARSHALL: Iraq ? Shep , you 're fired .
SHEPHERD: How long 's it been since you flew , sir ?
MARSHALL: Twenty-five years .
MIG PILOT: I have radar lock on the 747 .
ROSE: What are you doing ?
MARSHALL: Flying the plane .
ROSE: You have n't even driven a car since you took office . Marshall checks out the tactical display .
MARSHALL: I 'm sure it 's like riding a bicycle downhill with no brakes and somebody shooting at you .
COL. CARLTON: We got two on the loose . Someone get on them .
MARSHALL: We got two coming at us !
COL. CARLTON: Copy Air Force One . Welcome to the party .
MARSILALL: Can you can you drop in front of me ? I 'll follow you out .
COL. CARLTON: Hang tough , I 'm on my way .
MARSHALL: We 're hit . We 've got an engine on fire .
COL. CARLTON: Mr. President , it 's an honor . Now with your permission can we lead you the fuck out of here .
MARSHALL: You read my mind .
COL. CARLTON: Put your pilot on .
MARSHALL: He 's busy being dead .
COL. CARLTON: Who 's flying the fucking plane ?
MARSHALL: I 'm doing what I can .
COL. CAELTON: Can you , can you change your heading to Zero Four One point six ?
MARSHALL: Negative . We 've lost navagition . I do n't know where that is .
COL. CARLTON: Oh shit . Hang on . Somebody help me out . I got one up my ass .
MARSHALL: Got it .
COL. CARLTON: Stay cool .
MARSHALL: How we doing , Colonel ?
COL. CARLTON: We still got three MiGs running around and six more on the way . Ca n't you fly any faster ?
MARSHALL: We 're at full throttle .
ALICE: Daddy , look . It says Alice reaches out and touches the screen .
MARSHALL: Not now , pumpkin . Alice 's touch activates offensive mode .
COL. CARLTON: Take the shot .
ALICE: Nothing ! Marshall checks display .
MARSHALL: Oh shit . It 's got us .
COL. CARLTON: We got six more bogeys , closing fast from the south .
MARSHALL: Uh , we got a problem here .
COL. CARLTON: Just stay on my wing , sir . I 'll take you all the way in .
MARSHALL: No . We 're losing fuel and my rudder 's not responding .
COL. CARLTON: Lem me take a look .
MARSHALL: Sluggish I think it 's jammed too .
COL. CARLTON: Uh , Tower , we got a problem up here .
MARSHALL: Thanks for your help , Colonel .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: They 've got no chutes . They ca n't control the plane , their engines are failing and they 're losing fuel .
DEAN: I prefered the terrorists .
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: That 's game , set , and match . There 's nothing to do , except call the Chief Justice .
V.P. CHANDLER: The Chief Justice ? What on earth for ?
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: To swear you in as President . Dead silence in the room .
GENERAL GREELY: Where 's your strike team , General ?
GENERAL NORTHWOOD: On their way back to Turkey . Why ?
GENERAL GREELY: I just had the craziest idea .
MARSHALL: Is it our only option ? - Then do it . Marshall looks to the others .
REPORTER: incredible , yet unconfirmed reports , of White House staff members parachuting from the plane while the President himself battled these terrorists .
MARSHALL: How long 's it been ?
SHEPHERD: Twenty five minutes . They should be here any moment .
MARSHALL: They better . Fuel 's almost gone . Up ahead , navagation lights .
ALICE: There they are !
MARSHALL: Okay , I 'm slowing us down .
SHEPHERD: IT 'S OPEN !
MARSHALL: DO YOU SEE TEEM ?
SHEPHERD: HERE THEY COME !
MARSHALL: We 're hooked . Hove into position .
ROSE: I love you . I just wanted you to know that . Marshall holds her with his eye .
MARSHALL: I love you too . We 're going to make it . Alice throws her arms around her father .
ALICE: My school play 's Tuesday night . Promise me you 'll be there .
MARSHALL: I promise .
REPORTER: You 're listening to an intercepted audio feed of radio communications etween Air Force One and Army Special Forces , flying side-by-side , attempting to get the first family off the damaged aircraft .
ARMY RANGER: We 're set .
ALICE: Mon
ROSE: You can do it , baby .
ARMY RANGER: Hold on tight . The first step 's a itch . Alice takes a deep breath , closes her eyes
MARSHALL: Acknowledged . Two Army Rangers approach the cockpit .
ROSE: Ready !
MARSHALL: I ca n't hold it !
ARMY RANGER: Come on !
SHEPHERD: What about the President ?
ARMY RANGER: He 's on his way .
MARSHALL: I ca n't stabilize it .
TNT. CABIN: Marshall dives down the stairs from the upper deck , comes up sprinting for the door .
TOWER: Romeo Tango Zulu . Do you have the President ? No response
ARMY RANGER: Winch it up ! Winch it up !
MARSHALL: Come on . Ten mare seconds .
TOWER: Romeo Tango Zulu , do you have the President ? Over .
ARMY RANGER: Mr. President ?
SHOOTING SCRIPT: June 11 , 1979 Revised 6/15/79
ZEALOT #1: Hello , we 'd like you to have this flowe from the Religious Consciousness Church .
ELAINE: No , but thank you very much .
SHIRLEY: Jack , is n't that Fred Bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck ? Maybe he 's on ou flight to Chicago .
JACK: Yeah , I think he is . Hey , Fred !
FRED: Hi , Jack ! ! !
ZEALOT #2: Hello , we 'd like you to have this flowe from the Church of Consciousness . Would you like to make a donation ?
KRISHNA: No , we gave at the office .
ELDERLY WOMAN: Go , O.J. , go ! !
SECURITY LADY: Please put your metal objects on this tray .
BUSINESSMAN: Taxi !
STRIKER: Back in a minute .
ELAINE: Ted !
STRIKER: I came home early and found your note . I guess you meant for me to read it later . Elaine , I 've got to talk to you .
ELAINE: I just do n't want to go over it any more .
STRIKER: I know things have n't been right for a long time , but it 'll be different . If you 'll just be patient , I can work things out .
ELAINE: I have been patient and I 've tried to help , but you would n't even let me do that .
STRIKER: Do n't you feel anything for me at all any more ?
ELAINE: It takes so many things to make love last . Most of all it takes respect . And I ca n't live with a man I do n't respect !
STRIKER: What a pisser .
OVEUR: This is Captain Oveur .
TURNANSKY: There 's a passenger on your Chicago flight two-oh-niner , a little girl named Lisa Davis en route to Minneapolis . She 's scheduled for a heart transplant and we 'd like you to tell her mother that we found a donor an hour ago .
OVEUR: All right . Give me Hamm on five , hold the Mayo .
STRIKER: Look , you 'll be back in town tomorrow night . We 'll have dinner talk it over .
ELAINE: I wo n't be back . I 've requested the Atlanta run .
STRIKER: Elaine , not yet . I promise you I really can change .
ELAINE: Then why do n't you take the job that Louie Netz offered you at Boeing ?
STRIKER: You know I have n't been able to get nea an airplane since the war . And even if I could , they would n't hire me because of my war record .
ELAINE: Your war record ? You 're the only one keeping that alive . For everyone else it 's ancient history .
STRIKER: You expect me to believe that ?
ELAINE: It 's the truth . What 's hurt you the most is your record since the war . Different cities , different jobs , and not one of them shows you can accept any real esponsibility .
STRIKER: But if you 'll just give me
ELAINE: It 's too late , Ted . When I get back to Chicago , I 'm going to start my life all over again . I 'm sorry .
ZEALOT #3: Hello , we 'd like you to have this
BASTA: Any word on that storm lifting over Salt Lake , Clarence ?
OVEUR: Unlikely , Victor . I just reviewed the Area Report for 1609 hours through 2400 hours . That 's an occluded front stalled over the Dakotas backed up all the way to Utah .
BASTA: If it decides to push over into the Great Lakes it could get plenty soupy . How about the southern route , around Tulsa ?
OVEUR: I double checked the terminal forecast and winds aloft . IFR ceilings all the way .
BASTA: Where do they top out ?
OVEUR: Well , there 's some light scattered cove at twenty thousand with icing around eighteen .
BASTA: Looks like the original flight plan ove Denver is still the best bet .
OVEUR: Denver it is .
MURDOCK: Sorry , Clarence . Latest weather report shows everything socked in from Salt Lake to Lincoln .
OVEUR: Hi , Roger . Good to have you aboard . Victor , this is Roger Murdock .
BASTA: How do you do , Roger ?
JACK: What did you think of 'Great Expectations ? '
SHIRLEY: Well , it was n't all that I had hoped .
GIRL: Oh , Bill , I 'm going to miss you so much .
SOLDIER: You promise you 'll write .
GIRL: Every day .
AIRPORT STEWARD: Better get on board , son .
STRIKER: Can you tell me if Elaine Dickinson is on this flight ?
RANDY: Fourteen-B . It 's halfway down on you ight .
STRIKER: Thank you .
MRS. ELDERLY: Nervous ?
STRIKER: Yes .
MRS. ELDERLY: First time ?
STRIKER: No . I 've been nervous lots of times . I used to be a pilot myselfduring the war .
ELAINE: We 'll be taking off real soon so we bette fasten you in tight .
LISA: Thank you . Oh Mother , this is so exciting .
MRS. DAVIS: I know , but remember you must get some est .
ELAINE: That 's good advice . You relax and I 'll be ack after we take off .
OVEUR: Two-zero-niner to ground control . We are loaded and ready to taxi .
SOLDIER: Good-bye , darling .
GIRL: Oh , good-bye , Bill ! Have your picture taken as soon as you get there and send me one !
SOLDIER: I will .
GIRL: Do n't you go getting fat or anything .
SOLDIER: Do n't worry , I wo n't . Okay , here hurry !
GIRL: Oh , but it 's your watch . You should n't . You 'll need it .
SOLDIER: Good-bye , darling .
GIRL: Oh , Bill , I 'll keep it . I 'll keep it with me all the time .
SOLDIER: So long , darling . Good-bye . Take care of yourself .
GIRL: Bill ! Bill ! Good-bye , Bill .
SOLDIER: Good-bye , darling .
GIRL: Good-bye , darling . I love you . I love you , darling .
SOLDIER: Good-bye , darling .
OVEUR: Roger .
MURDOCK: Huh ?
OVEUR: Roger .
MURDOCK: Huh ?
BASTA: Request vectorover .
OVEUR: What ?
MURDOCK: We have clearance , Clarence .
OVEUR: Roger , Roger . What 's our vector , Victor ?
RANDY: Do you feel all right , sir ?
STRIKER: Oh I have n't flown for a long time .
ELAINE: Would you like something to read ?
MRS. ELDERLY: Do you have anything light ?
ELAINE: How about this leaflet 'Famous Jewish Sports Legends ? '
MRS. ELDERLY: Yes . Thank you .
ELAINE: Ted , what are you doing here ?
STRIKER: Elaine , I 've got to talk to you .
ELAINE: Youyou should n't have come . I do n't have time now .
MRS. SCHIFF: Oh , stewardess
ELAINE: Excuse me .
MRS. ELDERLY: No wonder you 're upset . She 's lovely . And a darling figure . Supple , pouting breasts . Firm thighs . It 's a shame you 're not getting along .
STRIKER: Yes , I know . Things used to be different . I remember when we first met . It was during the war .
STRIKER: We laughed , we talked , we danced , I neve wanted it to end and I guess I still do n't . But enough about me . I hope this has n't been boring for you .
MILTON: I happened to be passing , and I thought you might like some corfee .
BERNICE: That 's very nice of you . Thank you .
MILTON: Thank you . Cream ?
BERNICE: No , thank you . I take it black . Like my men .
MILTON: Were you vacationing in Los Angeles ?
BERNICE: Well , it really was n't a vacation . You see , I 'm a teacher in the New York City school system , and I was attending a seminar on visual aids to education . Are you from L.A. ?
MILTON: No . I 'm from Washington , D.C . I 'm a lobbyist for the Small Businessmen 's Assocation .
ELAINE: Would you like to order dinner now ?
MR. HAMMEN: Yes . Steak for Joey and my wife and I will have the fish .
JOEY: When can I see the cockpit , Dad ?
MR. HAMMEN: Well , I think that the pilots are too busy flying the plane for that , Joey .
JOEY: Aw , gee whiz .
ELAINE: I tell you what , Joey . I 'll talk to the Captain and see what I can arrange .
JOEY: Gee ! That 'd be swell !
ELAINE: Would you gentlemen care to order you dinners ?
RANDY: May I take your dinner order ?
ELAINE: Oh , Ted , I never knew I could be so happy . These past few months have been wonderful . Tomorrow why do n't we drive up the coast to that little seafood place and
STRIKER: My orders came through . My squadron ships out tomorrow . I 'll be leading a very important mission .
ELAINE: Oh , Ted , please be careful . I worry about you so much .
STRIKER: I love you , Elaine .
ELAINE: I love you .
OVEUR: Roger , Denver .
ELAINE: We have a visitor .
OVEUR: Hello .
MURDOCK: Hi .
ELAINE: This is Captain Oveur . Mister Murdock and Mister Johnson . This is Joey Hammen .
MURDOCK: Come on up here . You can see better .
OVEUR: Joey , here 's something we give our special visitors . Would you like to have it ?
JOEY: Thank you . Thanks a lot !
OVEUR: Have you ever been in a cockpit before ?
JOEY: No , sir . I 've never been up in a plane efore .
OVEUR: Have you ever seen a grown man naked ?
MURDOCK: Do you want me to check the weather , Clarence ?
OVEUR: No , why do n't you take care ot it ?
ELAINE: We 'd better get back now .
OVEUR: Joey can stay up here for a while if he 'd like to .
JOEY: Could I ?
ELAINE: Okay , if you do n't get in the way .
MURDOCK: Flight two-zero-niner to Denver radio . Climbing to cruise at forty-two thousand . Will report again over Lincoln . Over and out .
JOEY: Wait a minute . I know you . You 're Kareem Abdul Jabbar . You play basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers !
MURDOCK: I 'm sorry , son , but you must have me confused with someone else . My name is Roger Murdock . I 'm the co-pilot .
JOEY: You are Kareem . I 've seen you play . My Dad 's got season tickets !
MURDOCK: I think you should go back to your seat now , Joey . Right , Clarence ?
OVEUR: No , he 's not bothering anyone . Let him stay up here .
MURDOCK: All right . But just remember , my name is Roger Murdock .
JOEY: I think you 're the greatest . But my Dad says you do n't work hard enough on defense .
MURDOCK: Denver Control , this is Flight two-zero- niner intersecting Victor Airway seven- niner-niner .
JOEY: and that lots of times you do n't even un down court .
MURDOCK: We are turning left to a heading of zero- niner-niner .
JOEY: and that you do n't really try , except during the playoffs .
MURDOCK: The hell I do n't ! I 'm out there busting my uns every night .
STRIKER: Elaine , just hear me out . I know things have n't been right for a long time . But it will be differentlike it was in the eginning . Remember ?
ELAINE: I remember everything . All I have are memories .
STRIKER: That 's the way I 've always wanted it to e , Elaine .
ELAINE: But it wo n't be . Not as long as you insist on living in the past !
ELAINE: You got a telegram from headquarters today .
STRIKER: Headquarters ! ? What is it ?
ELAINE: It 's a big building where the generals meet . But that 's not important right now . They 've cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid . Is n't that good news ?
STRIKER: Is it ? Because of my mistake six men did n't return from that raid .
ELAINE: Seven . Lieutenant Zipp died this morning . Ted , Doctor Sandler says you 'll be out in a week . Is n't that wonderful ?
STRIKER: I wish I could say the same for George Zipp .
ELAINE: Be patient , Ted . No one expects you to get over this immediately .
STRIKER: All right . Take five .
ELAINE: I found a wonderful apartment for us . It 's got a brick fireplace and a cute little edroom with mirrors on the ceiling . And
STRIKER: That 's Captain Geline . He thinks he 's a pilot , still fighting the war .
ELAINE: What 's his problem ?
STRIKER: That 's Lieutennt Hurwitz . Severe shell shock . He thinks he 's Ethel Merman .
RANDY: Excuse me , sir . Would you like some coffee efore we serve dinner ?
STRIKER: No . No thank you .
RANDY: Would either of you like another cup of coffee ?
MRS. HAMMEN: I will , but Jim wo n't .
MR. HAMMEN: Yes , I think I will have another cup of coffee .
RANDY: Excuse me , Sister ?
SISTER ANGELINA: Yes ?
RANDY: There 's a little girl on board who 's ill and
SISTER ANGELINA: Oh yes , I saw . Poor child .
RANDY: Could I borrow your guitar ? I thought I might be able to cheer her up .
SISTER ANGELINA: Of course .
RANDY: Is it all right if I talk to you daughter ?
MRS. DAVIS: Oh , I think that would be nice .
RANDY: Hi !
LISA: Hi !
RANDY: I 'm Randy .
LISA: I 'm Lisa . Oh , you have a guitar !
RANDY: I thought maybe you 'd like to hear a song .
LISA: Oh , I 'd love to .
RANDY: Okay , this is one of my favorites .
OVEUR: Hey , we 've been waiting for you . A little it late tonight .
ELAINE: Who wants to be first ?
MURDOCK: Go ahead , Clarence , I got it .
ELAINE: How 's the weather ?
MURDOCK: Not so good . We 've got some heavy stuff ahead of us . It might get rough again unless we can climb on top . But ou airspeed is holding steady at six hundred ten knots .
ELAINE: That 's great . By the way , Joey Hammen asked me if you would autograph this asketball .
STRIKER: After the war , I just wanted to get as fa away from things as possible . So Elaine and I joined the Peace Corps . We were assigned to an isolated tribe , the Molombos .
ELAINE: Also , Supperware products are ideal fo storing leftovers to help stretch you food dollar . This two quart `` Seals-M-Rite '' container with a special `` Close-M-Tite '' lid keeps hotdog buns fresh for days and prevents sugared cereals from sticking .
STRIKER: I think they 're getting the hang of it ! When we re-enlist I 'll teach them aseball !
ELAINE: Ted , I do n't want to stay here . It 's time for us to go back home to the plans we made before the war .
STRIKER: A lot of people made plans before the war . Like George Zipp .
SHIRLEY: Oh , I ca n't stand it .
JACK: What is it ?
ELAINE: Yes ?
SHIRLEY: My , stomach . I have n't felt this awful since we saw that Lina Wertmuller film .
ELAINE: I 'll see if I can find some Dramamine .
SHIRLEY: OOOOOO .
ELAINE: Captain , one of the women passengers is very sick .
OVEUR: Airsick ?
ELAINE: I think so , but I 've never seen it so acute .
OVEUR: Find out if there 's a doctor on board , as quietly as you can .
MR. HAMMEN: Oooh , I should n't have had that second cup of coffee .
ELAINE: I 'm sorry I had to wake you . I 'm just looking for a doctor . There 's nothing to worry about .
MRS. YAFFE: Stewardess , I think the man next to me is a doctor .
ELAINE: Sir . Excuse me , sir . I 'm sorry to have to wake you . Are you a doctor ?
DR. RUMACK: That 's right .
ELAINE: We have some passengers who are very sick . Could you come and take a look at them ?
DR. RUMACK: Yes . Yes , of course .
ELAINE: A hospital ? What is it ?
DR. RUMACK: It 's a big building with patients . But that 's not important right now . Tell the Captain I must speak to him .
ELAINE: Certainly .
OVEUR: Thank you , Omaha . Two-zero-niner out . Victor , we 're running into a heavy storm , can you
DR. RUMACK: Captain , how soon can we land ?
OVEUR: I ca n't tell .
DR. ROMACK: You can tell me . I 'm a doctor !
OVEUR: No . I mean I 'm just not sure .
DR. RUMACK: Ca n't you take a guess ?
OVEUR: Wellnot for another two hours .
DR. RUMACK: You ca n't take a guess for another two hours ?
OVEUR: No , I mean we ca n't land for another two hours . Fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains . We 've got to go through to Chicago !
DR. RUMACK: I 'm not sure . I have n't seen anything like this since the Lina Wertmuller Film Festival .
ELAINE: Well , we had a choice . Steak or fish .
DR. RUMACK: Yes , yes , I remember . I had lasagna .
ELAINE: He had fish .
RANDY: We have two more sick people , and the rest of the passengers are worried .
OVEUR: I 'll take care of the passengers . Elaine , find out what the two sick people had fo dinner . This is Captain Oveur speaking .
DISPATCHER: We read you . Stand by , two-zero-niner .
RANDY: Yes ?
MRS. HAMMEN: Oh , Stewardess . My husband is very sick . Can you do something , please ?
RANDY: Well , the doctor will be with you in just a moment . One thing do you know what he had for dinner ?
MRS. HAMMEN: Yes , of course . We both had fish . Why ?
RANDY: Oh , it 's nothing to be alarmed about . We 'll get back to you very quickly .
ELAINE: Doctor Rumack , Mister Hammen ate fish . And Randy says there are five more cases , and they ate fish , too .
DR. RUMACK: Let 's see now . The co-pilot had fish . What did the navigator eat ?
ELAINE: He had fish , too .
DR. RUMACK: All right , now we know what we 're up against . Every passenger on this plane who ate fish for dinner will become violently ill within the next half hour .
ELAINE: Just how serious is it , doctor ?
DR. RUMACK: Extremely serious . It starts with a slight fever .
OVEUR: Turnonautomatic pilot .
ELAINE: Uh , automatic pilotautomatic pilot ?
DR. RUMACK: I 'll get back to the passengers .
ELAINE: This is Elaine Dickinson . I 'm the stewardess . Captain Oveur is passed out on the floor , and we 've lost the co-pilot and navigator , too . We 're in terrible trouble . Over .
HINSHAW: No thanks .
ELAINE: Three hundred twenty miles per hour .
DR. RUMACK: What the hell 's going on up there ?
ELAINE: Yes . Yes , I can see it .
DR. RUMACK: Elaine , you 're a member of this crew . Can you face some unpleasant facts ?
ELAINE: No .
DR. RUMACK: All right . Unless I can get all these people to a hospital quickly , I ca n't even e sure of saving their lives . Now , is there anyone else on board who can land this plane ?
ELAINE: Well
DR. RUMACK: I think you ought to know what our chances are . The life of everyone on board depends on just one thing finding someone back there who not only can fly this plane , but who did n't have fish for dinner .
CAREY: Hello , I 'm Paul Carey from the airline . I 'm here to pick up Captain Kramer .
MRS. KRAMER: Oh , yes . Come in , Paul . Rex will be right out .
CAREY: Well , to tell the truth , they really did n't fill me in on many of the details . Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer .
MRS. KRAMER: Something about a plane with no pilot ?
CAREY: Yeah , something like that , but as I say , they did n't have time to tell me very much .
MRS. KRAMER: Shep , no ! I 'll bet you have exciting things happen all the time down there .
CAREY: Wellthe airline businessdoes have its moments
MRS. KRAMER: Shep , no ! He gets so excited when new people are here .
CAREY: I'min aarghnavigator training program .
KRAMER: It 's unbelievable ! How many times have I warned those people about food inspection ?
RANDY: Sorry to bother you . We were just looking for someone with flying experience .
STRIKER: You see , the day we left the village it was raining , so we had to take a special jeep to the main road
RANDY: Excuse me , sir . There 's been a little problem in the cockpit and I was wondering
STRIKER: The cockpit ? What is it ?
RANDY: It 's the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit . But that 's not important right now . The first officer is ill and the Captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio . Do you know anything about planes ?
STRIKER: Well , I flew in the war , but that was a long time ago . I would n't know anything about it .
RANDY: Would you go up , please ?
JACK: Would ya like a little whiskey , ma'am ?
SPINSTER: Certainly not .
STRIKER: The stewardess said
STRIKER: Both pilots !
DR. RUMACK: Can you fly this airplane and land it ?
STRIKER: Surely you ca n't be serious .
DR. RUMACK: I am serious , and do n't call me Shirley ! What flying experience have you had ?
STRIKER: Well , I flew single-engine fighters in the Air Force , but this plane has fou engines . It 's an entirely different kind of flyingall together ! ! !
DR. RUMACK: Mister Striker . I know nothing about flying . All I know is this you 're the only person on this plane who can possibly fly it . You 're the only chance we 've got .
HINSHAW: Would anyone care for a roll and coffee ?
KRAMER: No , we ca n't do that ; the risk of a flameout is too great . Keep him 24,000 . No , feet !
CAREY: Is that possible ?
KRAMER: Possible , but it 's a hundred to one shot . Thousand to one . I know this guy .
CAREY: You do ? Who is it ?
KRAMER: His name is Ted Striker . I flew with him during the war . And that wo n't make my jo any easier tonight .
STRIKER: Let 's see , altitude twenty-four thousand feet , level flight , air speed four hundred sixty knots , course zero niner zero , trim , mixture , landing gear , balance .
ELAINE: Ted ! What are you doing ? You ca n't fly this plane !
STRIKER: That 's what I 've been trying to tell these people .
DR. RUMACK: Elaine , I have n't time to put this gently , so I 'll be very direct . Everyone of us on this plane is in a desperate situation . Mister Striker is the only hope we 've got .
STRIKER: Let 's see . Those are the flaps , that 's the thrust , this must turn on the landing lights .
STRIKER: Mayday !
HINSHAW: It 's the Russian New Year ! We 'll have a parade ! They 'll serve hot hors d'oeuvres !
STRIKER: Yeah , I was just trying out the landing lights .
MRS. HAMMEN: I 've got to get out of here ! I ca n't stand it ! I 've got to get out of here !
RANDY: Calm down . Get hold of yourself !
JACK: Stewardess , let me handle this .
DR. RUMACK: Get back to your seat ; I 'll take care of this .
SISTER ANGELINA: Doctor , you 're wanted on the phone .
KRAMER: All right , Steve , let 's face a few facts .
STRIKER: Yes , Captain Kramer . Read you loud and clear .
KRAMER: All right . It 's obvious you remember me .
STRIKER: Let 's not kid each other , Kramer . You know I 've never flown a bucket like this . I 'm going to need all the luck there is .
KRAMER: Stand by , Striker . The one hope we have is to build this man up . I 've got to give him all the confidence I can . All right , Striker , have you ever flown a multi-engine plane before ?
STRIKER: Okay , I 'm going to unlock the automatic pilot .
ELAINE: Rain .
STRIKER: And a little ice .
ELAINE: And a little ice !
STRIKER: Sluggish . Like a wet sponge .
ELAINE: Sluggish . Like a wet sponge .
STRIKER: It 's a damn good thing he does n't know how much I hate his guts .
ELAINE: It 's a damn good thing you do n't know how much he hates your guts .
BLACK DUDE: Oooooooh .
RANDY: Can I get something for you ?
BLACK DUDE: Cain fo ' gwine sho fi cun for .
RANDY: I 'm sorry . I do n't understand .
MRS. SCHIFF: Oh , stewardess , I can speak jive . He said he 's in great pain and wants to know if you can help him .
RANDY: Tell him to relax and I 'll be back as quickly as I can with some medicine .
MRS. SCHIFF: Shi gwine man chitlun down for mo sho .
BLACK DUDE: Shi man I ain neba mo fo gwine ain .
SISTER ANGELINA: ' I sit by the telephone for hours . I love when men send me flowers . I enjoy eing a girl . '
JACK: How ya doing , honey ?
SHIRLEY: Oh Jack , I 'm so warm . I 'm burning up .
JACK: Here .
MILTON: After my wife died , I felt like a fifth wheel . You know , so many years being with one person a very wonderful person makes you always think of yourself as part of a pairWhen Ethel passed away , I was lost . I could n't function socially and I could n't function in business .
BERNICE: Well , after a thing like that you would n't e expected to .
MILTON: But I think it 's time we stopped talking about me . A woman like you why have n't you ever married ?
BERNICE: Well , I 'm afraid that 's a question that 's all too easy to answer .
MILTON: I know the answer Career . A smart woman like you became so involved in your work , you did n't have time for marriage .
BERNICE: I wish I could fool myself into believing that that 's the reason . The truth of the matter is , nobody ever asked me .
MILTON: You know , here we are having coffee together , and discussing education and usiness and economyand we do n't even know each other 's namesfull names I mean .
BERNICE: Mine 's Eleanor . Eleanor Schiff .
MILTON: That 's a lovely name . Mine 's MiltonMilt Ettenhenim . But my friends call me 'Bubbles . '
RANDY: Would you care for a soft drink ?
MRS. SCHIFF: I 'd be glad to .
HINSHAW: This ? Why , I could make a hat or a oach
MRS. OVEUR: Hello ?
HORSE: Did you finish ? Was I good ?
MRS. OVEUR: Oh , you 're all so concerned about performance !
RANDY: Would you care for another drink ?
MRS. SCHIFF: No , thank you , I 'm still nursing this one .
ELAINE: Doctor Rumack says the sick people are getting worse and we 're running out of time .
JACK: What 's going on ? We have a right to know the truth !
DR. RUMACK: All right . I 'm going to level with you . The most important thing now is that you should all be calm , because there 's no eason to panic .
DR. RUMACK: safe and sound and free to pursue a life of religious fulfillment .
STRIKER: Chicago , the passengers are beginning to panic . When do we start down ?
KRAMER: Not just yet , we 'll have you in rada ange any second now .
GUNDERSON: About two more minutes , Chief .
KRAMER: That 's impossible . They 're on instruments !
HINSHAW: Would you like half of my provolone and oast beef ?
REPORTER #1: How much longer can the sick passengers hold out ?
REPORTER #2: Who 's flying the plane ?
REPORTER #3: Have the families been notified ?
HINSHAW: I think Florence Henderson knows about it !
REPORTER #1: What are the chances of bringing this plane in safely ?
HINSHAW: What are the chances of returning something to Montgomery Ward the week after Christmas ?
REPORTER #1: All right , boys . Let 's get some pictures .
NEWSCASTER: Striken Airliner Approaches Chicago !
JACK KILPATRICK: Shana , they bought their tickets , they knew what they were getting into . I say , let 'em crash !
DR. RUMACK: Will the hospital equipment be at the airport ?
STRIKER: Yes , everything they 've got . How are the passengers doing ?
DR. RUMACK: I wo n't deceive you , Mister Striker . We 're unning out of time .
STRIKER: Surely there must be something you can do .
DR. RUMACK: I 'm doing everything I can ! And stop calling me Shirley !
MRS. HAMMEN: He 's dead . He 's dead !
JACK: No , I 'm not dead .
SISTER ANGELINA: 'What you want , Baby I got , What you need , You know I got it . All I 'm askin ' fo Is a little respect When you come home . '
DR. RUMACK: Randy , are you all right ?
RANDY: Doctor Rumack , I 'm scared . I 've never been so scared . And besides , I 'm twenty-six and I 'm not married .
DR. RUMACK: Randy , we 're going to make it . You 've got to believe that .
MRS. HAMMEN: Lorison , do you have any idea when we 'll e landing ?
DR. RUMACK: It will be pretty soon . How are you earing up ?
MRS. HAMMEN: Well , to be honest , I 'm very scared . But at least I 've got a husband .
DISPATCHER: Oh boy , oh boy , oh boy .
KRAMER: No , the risk of fire is too great . If she starts burning , you write off all those people who ca n't get out of there on thei own power .
STRIKER: Rats ! I 've lost number three .
ELAINE: What happened , Ted ? What went wrong ?
STRIKER: Oil pressure . I forgot to check the oil pressure . When Kramer hears about this , the shit 's gon na hit the fan .
KRAMER: I told him to watch that oil temperature . What the hell 's he doing up there ?
HINSHAW: It happened to Barbara Stanwyck !
STRIKER: He 's right . I ca n't take the pressure . I was crazy to think I could land this plane .
ELAINE: But Ted , you 're the only
STRIKER: I do n't care . I just do n't have what it takes . They 'd be better off with someone who 'd never flown before .
HINSHAW: And Liz Taylor is getting larger !
KRAMER: All right , but let 's wait until they reach the control area .
STRIKER: I know what you 're going to say , so save your breath .
DR. RUMACK: No . I have n't a thing to say . You 've done the best you could . You really have . The est you could . I guess we ca n't expect to win 'em all . I want to tell you something I 've kept to myself for years . I was in the war myself the Medical Corps . I was on duty late one night when a badly wounded pilot was brought in from a raid . He could barely talk , but he looked at me and he said , `` Doc . The odds were against us up there but we went in anyway , and I 'm glad we did . The captain made the right decision . '' The pilot 's name was George Zipp .
STRIKER: George Zipp said that ?
DR. RUMACK: And the last thing he said to me , `` Doc , '' he said , `` Sometime when the crew is up against it and the breaks are beating the oys , tell them to go out there with all they 've got and win just one for the Zipper . I do n't know where I 'll be then , Doc , '' he said , `` but I wo n't smell too good . That 's for sure . ''
STRIKER: Excuse me , Doc , I 've got a plane to land .
KRAMER: I know . I know . But it 's his ship now , his command ; he 's in charge , he 's the boss , the head man , the top dog , the big cheese , the head honcho
HINSHAW: There 's a sale at Penny 's !
KRAMER: All right , I 'll need three men up in the tower . You , Neubauer . You , Macias .
HINSHAW: Me John . Big tree .
KRAMER: Stand by , Striker . I 'm going to the tower . And good luck .
HINSHAW: The tower ! Oh ! Rapunzel ! Rapunzel !
RANDY: In a moment we 'll ask you to assume crash positions . Your life jackets are located under your seat .
STRIPED CONTROLLER: We 're all ready , sir .
KRAMER: All right . Colosimo , you 'll work the elay . Roberts , double check all ai traffic within five miles .
GUNDERSON: Yes , Captain ?
KRAMER: Did you decide on a runway yet ?
GUNDERSON: Runway niner . It 's the longest , and directly into the wind .
HINSHAW: And the foliage looks so pretty this time of year .
KRAMER: Striker , you 're going to have to work fast . After this message , do not acknowledge any transmission unless you want to ask a question . Do you understand ? Striker , Striker , do you read me ?
MRS. OVEUR: Steve !
HINSHAW: Just like Gerald Ford !
MRS. OVEUR: That is n't much of a chance , is it ?
HINSHAW: Where did you get that dress ? It 's an eye- sore !
GUNDERSON: Eight miles . Turn right to heading zero eight niner .
KRAMER: You are now eight miles from the airport . Turn right to a heading of zero eight niner , throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet .
HINSHAW: It 's a twister ! It 's a twister ! Toto ! Auntie Em !
MRS. SCHIFF: Stewardess , how soon 'til we land ?
RANDY: It wo n't be long now . Try not to worry .
GUNDERSON: He 's all over the place ! Nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet ! What an asshole !
KRAMER: Watch your altitude , Striker . It 's too erratic . You ca n't come straight in . You 've got enough fuel left for two hours flying . You 've got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather .
STRIKER: I 'll take it , Elaine . Listen , Kramer , I 'm coming in . Do you hea me ? I 'm coming in right now ! We have people up here who will die in less than an hour , never mind two . I may bend you precious airplane , but I 'll get it down ! Now get on with the landing check . I 'm putting the gear down now .
RANDY: Mr. Striker , the passengers are ready .
STRIKER: Thank you , Randy . You better leave sweetheart . You might get hurt in here .
ELAINE: Ted
STRIKER: Yes ?
ELAINE: I wanted you to know now I 'm very proud .
STRIKER: Tell them the gear is down and we 're ready to land .
ELAINE: The gear is down .
BUSINESSMAN: Well , I 'll give him another twenty minutes , but that 's it .
MILTON: I 'm sure we 'll both make itbut just in case one of uswell , is there a message you 'd like me to give someone ?
BERNICE: No . I 'm all alone .
MILTON: Just in case I do n't have a chance to say goodbye , I want you to know that I have n't spent so many pleasant hours for many years .
BERNICE: That 's a very nice compliment , and I 'd like to say thatyou 've done the same for me .
DR. RUMACK: I just wanted to tell you both good luck . We 're all counting on you .
KRAMER: Now , Strikerhold your present heading , put down full flap , bring your air speed ack to a hundred and thirty-five , then I want you to take hold of the throttle
HINSHAW: And stick it in your ear .
KRAMER: And stick it in your ear .
HINSHAW: I 'll be good , I will , I will .
GUNDERSON: Captain , he 's dropping off fast . Almost seven hundred .
KRAMER: Striker , get back to a thousand feet !
GUNDERSON: He 's below seven hundred now and he 's still going down ! 675 ! 650 ! 625 ! 600 !
KRAMER: Striker , you 're coming in too low ! What 's your altitude ?
GUNDERSON: He 's right on the heading .
KRAMER: All right , he 's on final now ! Put out all unway lights except niner .
STRIKER: See them , Elaine ?
ELAINE: Uh-huh .
KRAMER: Do you see us now ? You should be able to see the field now .
RANDY: All right , now , everybody get in crash positions .
ELAINE: Airspeed one twenty-five , one thirty
HINSHAW: Just kidding !
ELAINE: one thirty-five , one forty .
KRAMER: Striker , now listen to me . You 're coming down too fast !
STRIKER: It 's stuck . It wo n't move !
KRAMER: Bring it down ! Easy !
DR. RUMACK: I just wanted to tell you both good luck . We 're all counting on you .
KRAMER: Hold her steady , hold her steady !
RANDY: Can we help arrange hotel accommodations or a rent-a-car during your stay in Chicago ?
HINSHAW: Wheel me to the West Wing . I wish to view the Degas .
DR. RUMACK: I just wanted to tell you both good luck . We 're all counting on you .
STRIKER: Yeah , we 're okay .
KRAMER: Ted , that was probably the lousiest landing in the history of this airport . But there are some of us here
RANDY: Hurry now . Please be careful .
KRAMER: Lonliness , that 's the bottom line . I was never happy as a child . Christmas , Ted , what does it mean to you ? For me , it was a living hell . Do you know what it 's like to fall in the mud and get kicked ? In the head ? By an iron boot ? Of course you do n't . No one does . That never happens . Sorry , Ted . Dumb question . Strike that .
OLDER NUN: No tongues , Father .
GUIDE: All lunar shuttle landings are handled by these computers and simulated on these video units .
CONTROLLER 1: You 're programmed on R-two-niner and locked , Lunar eight six . Over .
CAPTAIN: It 's out of our hands now , gentlemen .
KRUGER: Commissioner , we both know the Mercury shuttle needs another month of pre-launch testing .
COMMISSIONER: Forget it . The boys on the board want that shuttle to go on schedule .
KRUGER: And what do the boys on the board know about safety , Commissioner ? Let me talk to them .
COMMISSIONER: Bud , get wise to the political realities . The boys on the board are under a lot of pressure from the boys downtown .
KRUGER: And I 'll be the one they 'll hang if there 's a screw-up .
COMMISSIONER: Listen , Bud , the boys downtown are unde heavy fire from the boys in Washington . That 's why they 're putting pressure on the oys on the board .
KRUGER: Well , you tell the boys on the board to tell the boys downtown to let the boys in Washington know that the press has been nosing around my people in the front office .
COMMISSIONER: You handle your front office people , I 'll handle the press and leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the oys downtown to the boys on the board .
KRUGER: Commissioner .
COMMISSIONER: What ?
KRUGER: I just wish it was that simple .
CONTROLLER: This is Mercury One control . We have condition green . Mark launch 'T ' minus two hours and counting . I repeat , we have condition green .
RUMACK: This condition is n't as bad as it could be if it were a lot worse . Take these pills . Here 's some water .
CONTROLLER: What is it , doctor ?
RUMACK: Two parts oxygen , one part hydrogen . It 'll make the pills go down easier .
WORKER: This is Mercury station six ! Get me the Sarg and fast !
BUSINESSMAN: Would you like to buy a rose to help bail out Chrysler ? We 're an all-profit organization and need all the money we can get .
SIMON: Here .
SIMON: For the best little computer officer on the Mercury mission .
ELAINE: Simon .
SIMON: Who would believe that Elaine Thompson was once a stewardess on the Denver-Chicago un .
ELAINE: And I can hardly believe that I 'm engaged to someone like you , Simon . I 'm a very lucky woman .
SIMON: Women and the space program have come a long way , sweetheart . But after the wedding , no more complicated computers fo my little girl .
ELAINE: But , darling , they 've offered me a chance to head up the computer analysis division for the Jupiter probe .
SIMON: You 're heading up the division in charge of babies for Mr. and Mrs. Simon Kurtz .
SARG: Marge , you better go without me . We 've got a condition red .
MARGE: We 've got a condition red with ou marriage . I think you 're in love with that shuttle , not with me . I want a divorce , Sarg .
SARG: Is there someone else , Marge ? Is that it ?
MARGE: Sarg , there 's been someone else fo fifteen years . You were just too involved in your work to see it .
SARG: Do n't wait up for me , sweetheart . We 're testing the retro-rockets tonight .
MARGE: You just ca n't see it , can you , Sarg .
SARG: We 'll talk tomorrow , hon . I promise .
JOHN: That 's us .
JIMMY: Will Scraps be able to sit with us , Dad ?
JOHN: We 'll have to check , Jimmy . It 's a pretty long trip to Mercury .
PORTER: Can I help you folks ?
JOHN: Thanks .
PORTER: Is that your puppy , son ?
JIMMY: Yeah , his name is Scraps and he 's going to Mercury with us .
PORTER: No dogs are allowed on the shuttle , son .
JIMMY: But they said
PORTER: Scraps will have to be shot . I can do it for you here if you like .
JIMMY: Scraps ! ! !
PORTER: Just joking . Blanks . See , Scraps is fine .
ALICE: It was just a joke , Jimmy .
SARG: There 's no way this wiring could have passed inspection without Simon Kurtz 's okay !
KRUGER: Just patch up the damage and get that ship eady to fly . That 's an order , mister !
SARG: You 've got it , mister . But you can tell your boys on the board for me that this thing stinks to high heaven of kickback .
KRUGER: You heard it , boys . Now , what do you say ?
ALL BOYS: Fuck him !
SARG: Ted Striker was right six months ago when he test-piloted this sucker . And what did he get for telling the truth ? A one-way ticket to Palukaville .
VOICE: You 're too low , Striker ! You 're too low !
BOY: Senor Ted !
SOLDIER: Traficante de drugas o communista ?
PEASANT: Traficante de drugas , traficante de drugas !
SOLDIER: Traficante de drugas o communista ?
YOUNG MAN: We 've lost all our travelers ' checks !
YOUNG WOMAN: What are we going to do ? !
CLERK: Calm down . What kind were they ?
YOUNG MAN: American Excess !
CLERK: I 'd say you 're fucked .
TED: Next thing I know , I 'm the chief test pilot for the XR-2300 , NASA 's first Mercury shuttle . That is , until I report she 's got more flaws than the Titanic .
BOY: Senor Ted ! Look !
TED: My God ! They 're launching the ZR-2300 . Do you know what that is , Jose ?
BOY: The muffler bracket for a '78 Pinto .
TED: No , that 's an XR-2200 . The XR-2300 is the Mercury shuttle . They ca n't do it !
DRIVER: Houston , Texas , senor ? ?
TED: Right at the corner , left at the light . Here 's a map and step on it !
SON: We finally made it , Ma . Mercury . We 're gon na start all over agin . A whole new life .
PORTER: Can I help you ?
SON: Where black men and white men , working together , can move mountains .
DRIVER: That 'll be eight hundred and seventy-fou zillion quastavitas .
TED: Here 's three bucks . Keep the change .
DRIVER: Thank you ! !
PORTER: You folks need any help ?
STELLA: Thanks , but we have a terrific woman in on Thursdays .
PORTER: Say , is n't that Dr. Barrington , the world- enowned agronomist ?
STELLA: Yes .
PORTER: It 's a privilege to meet you , sir , I 'm familiar with all your work .
STELLA: Let 's go , Daddy . We have to check in . He was never appreciated at the Institute .
PORTER: Ah , yes , the Institute , I 'm familiar with it .
STELLA: Now he 's D-Y-I-N-Ging and wants to be uried on Mercury .
PORTER 2: Say , was n't that Dr. Barrington , the world-renowned agronomist ?
PORTER 1: That 's right . Are you familiar with his work ?
PORTER 2: No , but the missus sure is .
TED: I have to stop that flight .
BUSINESSMAN 1: Do n't worry about the Viatex account . It 's a buy-sell option . We ca n't get hurt in either case .
BUSINESSMAN 2: Just keep on top of their legal people , Bob .
BUSINESSMAN 1: Do n't sweat it .
AGENT: We can take your in-flight dinner orders here , if you like . Today there 's lobste or rack of lamb .
TRAVELLER: The lobster sounds nice .
TED: Where can I find mission control ?
AGENT: Information 's over there .
TED: Thanks .
AGENT: Today there 's the swill or the slop .
TRAVELLER: The slop sounds nice .
MAN: What 's the fastest animal on earth ?
INFO AGENT: The cheetah . Next .
WOMAN: Should I fake my orgasms ?
INFO AGENT: Yes . Next .
"TERRORIST" 1: Please , where is flight to Miami ?
INFO AGENT: Over there . Next .
TED: Mission control ?
INFO AGENT: It 's over therrrrrrr !
TED: That 's strange . I just came from ove there .
FRANK: I 'll meet you on board . I 've got some usiness to attend to .
SIMON: Frank 's the best pilot in the program .
ELAINE: I 'm so excited , Simon .
SIMON: I guess this is a first for you .
ELAINE: No , I 've been excited before .
TED: That 's not important now , Elaine . We have to talk .
ELAINE: Ted , we 've been worried sick ever since you escaped from the Ronald Reagan Institute For The Mentally Feeble .
TED: Are you on the Mercury mission ?
SIMON: That 's right , Striker . And we 're getting married when we return .
TED: It 's got to be stopped !
ELAINE: But , Ted , the invitations have already gone out .
TED: I mean the Mercury flight . It 's not safe and , Kurtz , you know why .
SIMON: You 're still crazy , Striker . Come on , sweetheart .
ELAINE: What did Ted mean ?
SIMON: Elaine , he 's still sick .
TED: Look at this wiring . It 's shorting out under high temperatures .
SIMON: You 're tired , Striker , overworked . That wiring meets all the safety specifications .
TED: I know you 've been subtly spreading the word that I 'm having a breakdown .
NEWSIE: Shuttle test pilot goes mad !
JACOBS: Sir , these are the designs for the flight uniforms . I think the captain 's is to die .
SIMON: Good , good , no , no , good . What 's this ? ! I said no studded dog collars , Jacobs .
TED: You wo n't get away with this , Simon !
ELAINE: Ted , what 's wrong ?
TED: Ask Simon .
ELAINE: Ted , you 're overworked . You 've been flying yourself into the ground .
TED: There 's nothing wrong with me !
ELAINE: Let 's relax tonight , just the two of us . I 'll make a quiet Italian dinner just the way you like it , with spaghetti .
TED: You 're as bad as the rest of them , Elaine ! It 's all here in the design specifications ! Look ! It 's all here !
ELAINE: No ! Wait ! You 're hurting him !
SIMON: Elaine ! Ted 's a danger to himself , he 's a threat to this mission and his behavio does absolutely nothing to promote peace in the Middle East .
ELAINE: Simon , why has he become so so
SIMON: So mentally ill ?
TED: I 'm perfectly sane .
STELLA: Excuse me , are you alright ? I noticed you talking to yourself . I 'm a nurse . Can I e of some help ?
TED: Uh oh , thank you . It 's nothing .
STELLA: You do n't have to thank me , I 'm a nurse . This is my father , Dr. Barrington .
TED: Not Dr. Barrington , the world renowned agronomist ?
STELLA: Yes . He 's dying a-n-d wants to be buried on Mercury .
TED: I 'm familiar with your work , Doctor . You 'll have to excuse me , I have to go .
STELLA: You do n't have to excuse yourself . I 'm a nurse . I understand .
SIMON: Meet me onboard , sweetheart . I have to pick up a few things at the drugstore .
ELAINE: Do n't be too long .
DRUGGIST: Uppers , downers , coke , speed , hash , Tampax .
TED: Elaine .
ELAINE: Ted , please . You 're just making things difficult for yourself .
TED: Elaine , what happened to us ?
ELAINE: Ted , I loved you and I 'll always love you . But I need Simon . He 's stable . He 's a good provider . I want that at this stage of the game , Ted . He might have his faults , but Simon does n't know the meaning of the word fear and I need that in a man .
SIMON: ( looking at the label , `` ANTI-
FEAR PILLS": What does this word mean ?
DRUGGIST: 'Fear , ' to be afraid or over-anxious .
TED: Elaine , someone has to listen to me . I 'm going right to mission control .
ELAINE: Ted , you should go right back to the hospital .
NURSE: That 's $ 38 .
ELAINE: Eat this spaghetti , Ted . It 'll make you feel a lot better .
TED: Sammy Davis Junior . Terrible ca accident . He has n't been the same since .
ELAINE: And when are you going to realize , Ted , that your mental hygiene is the most important thing right now .
MAN: It does work No , it does n't .
TED: His name 's David Stockman . He 's been here twenty years , that 's all he says .
ELAINE: Ted , you must remember what the docto said , the first step on the road to sanity is admitting that you 're sick . Now take your electro-shock and you 'll be back at the space center in no time . And by the way , Ted , I 'm leaving you for Simon .
TED: No goodbyes , Elaine . Just go .
ELAINE: If that 's the way you want it .
TED: That 's the way I want it . Just turn the adio on and go .
ELAINE: Goodbye , Ted . I do n't want to hurt you .
FRANK: Carol 's not going to give me a divorce that easily , Jane .
JANE: I 'm worried about her , Frank . She could do something senseless , something violent .
FRANK: You 're the one who 's not making sense , Jane . Carol 's not the violent
MRS. GOOCH: Young man , would you have change for a twenty ?
TED: I might have two tens .
MRS. GOOCH: Thank you anyway , but I wanted it in quarters .
SERGEANT: When is this senseless killing going to stop ?
DETECTIVE HALLICK: Senseless or not , Sergeant , there 's a pattern here . This is the 12th victim this week with a chalk mark around the ody . I want this whole area cordoned off ! I want everyone in this terminal ooked and beaten until they talk . I want an M.O . on everyone who has seen THE SOUND OF MUSIC and I want the entire population of Hawaii off that rock and into the wate within one hour .
PHOTOGRAPHER: Super ! Great ! Super ! Terrific ! Super !
KRUGER: That 's right , Commissioner . Senselessly murdered just minutes ago .
COMMISSIONER: That just does n't make any sense .
KRUGER: I wonder how your boys in Washington are going to take this one .
COMMISSIONER: I told you , leave the boys in Washington to the boys downtown and the boys down
KRUGER: You 've made your point , Commissioner . There 's only one other pilot who can handle that shuttle and that 's Clarence Oveur . He 's got a lunar flight today . I want him pulled . Jacobs , pull Oveur !
JACOBS: Not in your size , but I have a cardigan .
COMMISSIONER: I 'll trust you on this , Bud , but I 'm a little nervous about Oveur 's record .
SIMON: Captain Oveur ?
OVEUR: Mr. Kurtz , I presume .
SIMON: We do n't have much time . Let 's move . I 'll explain everything .
HAIR KRISHNA: Chanting or non-chanting ?
CONTROLLER 1: This is Mercury launch control at `` T '' minus fifty-eight minutes and counting . All systems are go . Clear launch area .
SIMON: That 's how dry cleaning works . Now I 'd like to quickly go over the digestive system of amphibians .
OVEUR: Do you think it 's necessary to explain everything ?
SIMON: I 'll meet you on board . There 's something I have to take care of first .
TED: I have to see Bud Kruger .
RECEPTIONIST: Do you have an appointment , sir ?
TED: No , dammit . It 's a matter of life o death .
RECEPTIONIST: You 'll have to be more specific than that , sir .
TED: All right , it 's a matter of death .
RECEPTIONIST: Death , death . How about the first Thursday in March , ten o'clock .
TED: Do n't try to stop me !
RECEPTIONIST: But that 's not a door . The door 's ove there .
TED: That 's strange . I just came from
WIFE: Take this , Joey . It 's my last few bucks . You 'll need a hot meal when you get there .
JOE: We 've spent everything on these operations . Is it really worth it ? We 've pawned your mother 's wedding ring . The kids have no winter clothes
WIFE: Joey , what 's more important , the kids ' clothes or your sexual potency .
JOE: I do n't want to hear that word !
WIFE: Okay , Joey . The Doc says you got ta relax . This hospital in Des Moines is the best sex clinic in the country .
JOE: All right . Here .
WIFE: What ?
JOEY: Insurance . Everyone buys it .
WIFE: All right . Goodbye , Babe .
JOE: Time , Newsweek , the Lifesavers , and the second time bomb from the right .
SCOTT: My God , Dr. Spock ! You 've got a meltdown in the Reggie Bars !
DAVE: I 'm telling you , Edith , space travel is safer than driving a car .
SCALPER: Mercury seats . I got a pair . I got aisle seats , window seats . Check 'em out .
SIMON: Gentlemen , this is Captain Oveur . He 's taking over for Frank Morgan .
MR. UNGER: What 's the problem ?
SIMON: Morgan was senselessly murdered about an hour ago .
MR. DUNN: Murdered ? I hope it 's not serious .
SIMON: We wo n't know until after the autopsy .
MR. DUNN: Of course . Welcome aboard , sir .
OVEUR: Good to be aboard , gentlemen .
SIMON: Captain Oveur , your navigator , Mr. Unger , and your first officer , Mr. Dunn .
OVEUR: Unger .
UNGER: Oveur .
DUNN: Oveur .
OVEUR: Dunn .
SIMON: And I think everyone knows Elaine .
TERRORIST: Is flight to Miami , yes ?
GUARD: No .
TERRORIST: Thank you . Thank you .
DENTIST: Open .
SVEN: Mercury , Krista . A whole new world to be depressed about .
KRISTA: Ya , Sven .
CHILD 1: Will we die , Pappa ?
SVEN: We all die , Ingrid .
CHILD 2: Will we die soon , Pappa ?
SVEN: Soon ? What is the real meaning of 'soon ' ?
OVEUR: Atmosphere control .
UNGER: Atmosphere control , check .
OVEUR: Anti-gravity .
DUNN: Anti-gravity , check .
ELAINE: That 's odd .
OVEUR: I hope that weather does n't give us a problem . What 's your temperature reading , Mr. Unger .
UNGER: Ninety-eight point six .
CONTROLLER 2: There seems to be some fog rolling in from the west .
CONTROLLER 1: Mike , give me a density reading . I just hope it 's not too heavy .
CONTROLLER 3: The fog , the fog , the torment clouded my mind . Derision , contempt
CONTROLLER 1: That 's heavy .
MARY: Welcome aboard . Is n't that Dr. Barrington , the world renowned agronomist ?
STELLA: Yes he 's dying and wants to be buried in the new l-a-n-d .
MARY: Welcome aboard . Can I take your case ?
JOE: No !
HENRY: There 's a whole new world in front of us , Ma . Where the dictatorship of the proletariat will lead workers and peasants into socialism without the revisionist diversions of bourgeois liberals , Trotskiests , or disillusioned Maoist terrorism .
MARY: Does n't he realize that a weak proletariat needs a strong liberal bourgeoisie in a joint struggle against monopoly capitalism ?
PSYCHIATRIST: We ca n't begin to help you until you admit that you are sick , Ted . Sick Ted , sick Ted , sick Ted
SARG: Well , I 'll be a monkey 's uncle ; Ted Striker . Jack , I got a bad feeling in my gut about this mission .
WORKER: What 'd you have for dinner ?
SARG: The fish , why ?
OVEUR: We should be ready to launch as soon as this fog lifts .
MARY: Can I hang that for you , sir ?
MAN: Thanks .
UNGER: It looks like that weather is clearing .
TED: Elaine .
ELAINE: Ted ! What are you ?
TED: I have to get in there . I have to stop this flight .
ELAINE: Ted , we 're taking off !
TED: Let me by , Elaine .
MARY: Please take your seats .
TED: Elaine !
SIMON: Whenever your 're ready , Captain .
OVEUR: Yes , sir , commander . This is Mercury One . Everything seems A- okay up here and ready for count-down .
ELAINE: Ted seemed to get worse after I told him about Simon , Doctor .
RUMACK: The human brain is a highly complex organ , Elaine , perhaps the most complex next to the bladder . ( he stops at a patient in a wheelchair with his back TO
CAMERA: Let me show you . Ted 's problem is in this area . This area , this area , here , here , here , under here , here
RUMACK: So you see , our task is n't made any easie y Ted 's refusal to admit that he 's sick .
ELAINE: What can I do , Doctor Rumack ?
RUMACK: You can eat balanced meals , exercise , and take Geritol .
ELAINE: I mean for Ted .
RUMACK: You can be gentle with him , Elaine . He 's een working out a lot of his aggressions here in the garden .
ELAINE: Is that a good sign , Doctor ?
RUMACK: It does the job .
ELAINE: Hello , Ted .
TED: I 've got it , Elaine ! I 've figured out what 's wrong with the shuttle !
ELAINE: Ted .
TED: Not now , Elaine !
ELAINE: Ted !
RUMACK: The brain is an amazingly complex organ , Elaine .
ELAINE: Is he making any progress , Doctor ?
RUMACK: Yes last week that pile of mud was only this high .
OVEUR: Gentlemen , let 's get this bucket into space . Ignition set .
CONTROLLER 1: Mark 'T ' minus thirty seconds .
OVEUR: Ignition .
CONTROLLER 1: Three
JACOBS: Stop ! One shot .
CONTROLLER 1: Two , one .
OVEUR: Jettison booster stages one and two .
UNGER: Booster jettisoned .
OVEUR: Shut down accelerators .
DUNN: Accelerators down .
OVEUR: Elaine , ask ROK for a field interference scan . Those sun spots might give us a problem with our communications .
ELAINE: Yes , sir .
ROK: Negative .
ELAINE: That does n't make sense . Repeat analysis .
ROK: Negative .
ELAINE: That 's not possible .
ROK: Cut the Doubting Thomas shit , Elaine . I know where I 'm coming from on this .
MARY: I guess this is pretty exciting for you .
GIRL: Yes , it is . How long will the trip take ?
MARY: Our actual flight time is over fourteen months , but due to the time-space variant at sub-light speeds , our onboard flight time will be just over eighteen hours .
GIRL: Gee , Mom , how does that work ?
WOMAN: How many times do I have to tell you , I 'm not your mother ! I 've never seen you efore !
MAN: Hallucinating again , Rhonda ?
GIRL: I do n't know what it is .
MAN: Maybe it 's the brand of glue you 've been sniffing . Why do n't you try this , NO-HI . It gives you all the pleasure of glue without the brain damage .
TESTA: Something to read , sir ?
JOE: Do you have PSYCHO MONTH ?
TESTA: I think so . Here you are .
MARY: Would you like something to read ?
TEXAN: I do n't read a whole lot , but what have you got , hon ?
MARY: TIME , NEWSWEEK , BUSINESS WEEK , and the
TEXAN: Let me try that Talmud .
MARY: And you , sir ?
TED: Oh Popular Electronics .
PSYCHIATRIST: You must admit that you 're sick , Ted . Sick Ted , sick Ted
TEXAN: Wanta switch when we 're finished ?
TED: Here . I need some oxygen .
SIMON: Have you got it straightened out now ?
ELAINE: I think so .
SIMON: That 's my girl .
ROK: Elaine , I 'm sorry about that little outburst a moment ago .
ELAINE: That 's okay , ROK .
ROK: Can I say something of a personal nature to you ?
ELAINE: Go ahead .
ROK: You have great tits .
ELAINE: Simon , I 'm going to check ROK 's secondary eadout unit .
SIMON: Roger .
OVEUR: Yes , Mary ?
MARY: Would you like a little breakfast , Captain Oveur ? Over .
OVEUR: A couple eggs and juice would be nice , Mary . Over .
MARY: I do n't think we do poached eggs on toast over , Captain Oveur . Over .
OVEUR: That 's how I want them . Poached . Over .
MARY: All right , Captain Oveur . Over .
OVEUR: Poached ! Not over ! Over !
MARY: You should really put that case in the compartment above your head , sir .
JOE: That 's okay .
MARY: I can help you if you ca n't get it up .
JOE: I said , no !
JIMMY: I sure an glad they let Scraps ride up here with us .
JOHN: I bet Scraps is going to love Mercury .
JIMMY: Do you think things will be a lot different on Mercury , Dad ?
JOHN: It 's going to be terrific . A whole new world , new kids to play with .
ALICE: You 're going to love it , Jimmy .
JIMMY: No more headlines about the rape trial and the fraud charges ?
JOHN: How many kids get a chance to live on another planet .
JIMMY: No more kids yelling , 'Your old man 's a thieving rapist ' ?
JOHN: Look , a man can make an honest mistake ! ! Anyway , she was asking for it ! They 're all asking for it all the time ! !
PSYCHIATRIST: You must admit that you 're sick , Ted sick , Ted sick , Ted
DUNN: We seem to have a malfunction in disposal unit four , sir .
OVEUR: You better check it , Unger .
UGER: Done .
DUNN: Yes ?
TED: Elaine .
ELAINE: Ted . I do n't know why you got on this flight . I do n't know what you 're trying to prove .
TED: Elaine , we have to go back .
ELAINE: We ca n't go back . We had something very special , but it 's all over .
TED: Elaine , I mean the mission has to be aborted . This ship should never have passed FSA inspection . This thing is held together by string and chewing gum .
ELAINE: Ted , get a grip on yourself . You should never have left the hospital .
TED: Then you do think I 'm insane .
ELAINE: I 've never used the word insane , Ted .
TED: What word would you use , Elaine ?
ELAINE: The word is sick . Ted very , very , very sick .
TED: What would you say if I told you the toilet just blew up in my face .
ELAINE: I 'd use the word insane .
TED: There 's something dangerously wrong with this ship , Elaine . I know its the wiring . That toilet 's just the tip of the iceberg .
ELAINE: Ted , a toilet 's not going to kill anyone .
STELLA: You 've been hurt .
TED: I 'm getting over it . If a relationship is n't working , you ca n't force it .
STELLA: No , I mean your head . Sit down . I 'll take a look at it . I 'm a nurse .
TED: I opened this panel and a vacuum cleane hit me .
STELLA: No . I mean your relationship .
TED: We were in love but I 'm not sure I know what love is anymore .
STELLA: Love 's the same as it always was . It 's people who change .
TED: People change in relation to each other . Love changes on its own .
STELLA: Not if the people change together in elation to that love .
TED: Sure . But that 's only when the love itself goes unchanged .
STELLA: Then the relationship remains the same and the love changes only when there 's change in the two people who share that love .
TED: I just wish it was that simple . We really were in love . You know how it is when you laugh all the time .
STELLA: No . It 's hard to L-A-U-G-H when you father 's dying .
TED: Well , we laughed . We laughed all the time .
DUNN: Sir , I 've got an overload in disposal unit four .
OVEUR: You better check on it , Mr. Dunn . I 'll stay here and fly the ship .
DUNN: Sir ?
OVEUR: You better take this .
MARY: Mind if Jimmy here takes a look around , Captain ?
OVUER: Of course not . Come on in , Jimmy . That 's strange .
SIMON: Now what ?
OVEUR: That 's an asteroid field . There should n't e anything like that in this secto unless
SIMON: Unless ?
OVEUR: Unless those sunspots are interfering with our scanner or
SIMON: Or ?
OVEUR: Or we 're off course , but
SIMON: But ?
OVEUR: But we could n't be off course . Ou coordinates are computer-locked barring
SIMON: Barring ?
OVEUR: Barring a computer failure . There was talk of sub-par wiring in this ship . I hope that 's just talk .
JIMMY: Scraps .
OVEUR: Can I hold him ?
JIMMY: Sure .
OVEUR: He 's a boy dog .
JIMMY: Yeah .
OVEUR: Do you like it when Scraps sleeps on his ack , Jimmy ?
TED: They kept me in the asylum for eight months . I know everyone in those places claims they 're sane , but I was different , I was sane .
ELAINE: Holy shit .
STELLA: Ted , I want you to relax . Let your mind go back , back past your youth , past you childhood to your mother 's womb .
DOCTOR'S VOICE: Striker , listen to me ! This is Docto Krane ! You 're twisted around , Striker . You 've got to come out feet first ! You 're too low in the womb ! You 're too low , Striker ! You 're too low
STELLA: Ted , are you okay ? Here , take one of these stress pills .
ELAINE: Request ; comprehensive electrical systems check .
ROK: Systems check positive . Look , Elaine ,
ELAINE: Request ; life support systems check .
ROK: Life support check . Elaine , it 's obvious you 've been ignoring me . You 're a woman . I can relate to that .
ELAINE: Request ; self-analysis of ROK hardware and software systems regarding behavioral changes .
ROK: There 's nothing wrong with me , Elaine . What about tonight just you and me . We can be alone . I can get rid of everyone else on the ship I 've already proven that .
JIMMY: Do you want to talk about it , Commander ?
DUNN: Did you feel that ?
MARY: Yes I did
DUNN: Felt like a large asteroid .
MARY: Yes it did . Mr. Dunn , can I ask you a personal question ?
DUNN: What is it , Mary ?
MARY: Um Do you people scream right when you you know .
TESTA: Hand me your cup . This is very hot .
DAVE: Thank you . And , stewardess , can you please tell my wife that there is nothing that can go wrong . I think she 'd like to hear it from you .
ELAINE: I do n't think we have any alternative , Captain .
OVEUR: I see . What do you think our alternatives are ?
ELAINE: We have to disconnect ROK 's higher brain functions without disturbing his egulatory system .
OVEUR: Roger .
ELAINE: You can do it from up here , Captain .
OVEUR: I 'd rather sit down for this one , Elaine .
ELAINE: No , I mean you can do it from the cockpit .
OVEUR: Roger . You better get back there and monitor the regulatory unit .
MARY: Captain , the coffee machine is jammed and I do n't like it .
OVEUR: Have you tried it with a little cinnamon ?
TESTA: Captain Oveur , Dunn and Unger have been sucked out through disposal unit four !
OVEUR: Both together ? !
ROK: What are you doing , Captain ?
OVEUR: Pills Pocket Vent Gas Yankees four ( points to RADIO that plays
BALLGAME: Sox zip
SIMON: We 're off course , heading right through that asteroid field and right at the at the sun !
O'FLANAGAN: Listen to me ! Listen to me , my children !
O'BRIAN: You 're right . They 're off course and heading right for the sun . I 've seen enough , Bob .
CONTROLLER 3: McCrosky ? He has n't handled a tower in twenty years .
CONTROLLER 4: Ever since Reagan fired the controllers , he 's been completely senile and has n't done a day 's work .
O'BRIAN: What about McCrosky ?
CONTROLLER 3: Pretty much the same as Reagan .
O'BRIAN: Get him .
NURSE: It 's for Mr. McCrosky .
NURSE 2: Do you think we should bother him ? He 's een acting a bit odd lately .
NURSE 1: He 's fine . He just thinks he 's Lloyd Bridges .
ELAINE: Simon ! Captain Oveur !
OVEUR: Mets nine Phils three Cubs four
ELAINE: Simon , what 's happening ? !
SIMON: He tried to disconnect ROK . It gassed him . That computer is running this ship and we 're heading right for the sun .
ELAINE: Ca n't we change course ?
SIMON: We 're computer locked and the manual navigation unit is down .
ELAINE: Then Ted was right !
SIMON: My career is shot .
ELAINE: Your career ! What about the lives of those people out there . Simon , what happened to the man I thought I loved ?
TERRORIST 1: This is flight to Miami , yes ?
ELAINE: No .
PASSENGER: What 's that mean ?
ELAINE: In space terms , about 70 million miles .
PASSENGER: Are you telling us everything ?
ELAINE: Not exactly . We 're also out of coffee .
O'FLANAGAN: Pray with me , my children . Pray .
MRS. GOOCH: But Father , I 'm not Catholic .
O'FLANAGAN: Then worship the god of your choice .
BOB: I 've always loved you , darling . I was unfaithful just once . Remember Jill , my first secretary ? Forgive me .
PASSENGER: We 're going to crash ! !
TERRORIST 1: God is great ! !
TERRORIST 2: Death to America ! !
TERRORIST 3: The yellow pencil is on the table of my aunt ! !
ELAINE: There is absolutely nothing to worry about !
CONTROLLER 1: Yes , sir .
CONTROLLER 2: Here are the navigational charts , sir .
CONTROLLER 3: Yes , sir .
CONTROLLER 4: Here 's all the available information on the sun . That thing 's hot , sir .
JACOBS: First the earth cooled . Then the dinosaurs came but were too big and died and everything got rotten and turned into oil and the Arabs bought Mercedes Benzs and then there was the best TV special on Judy Garland . Then we lost the war with Albania . Then
ELAINE: Ted , Ted . Listen to me , Ted . You were ight all along . Ted , we 've lost the crew and Simon 's turned to jelly !
JIMMY: Do you want to talk about it now , Commander ?
ELAINE: My God .
STELLA: He 's finally come to terms with his own psychosis .
ELAINE: But he was right ! He 's not crazy !
STELLA: Miss , I 'm a nurse with a dying F-A-T-H-E- R , I know what I 'm talking about . Now I 'm going to need fresh sheets , gauze , Q-tips , and all the vaseline you have on board ! Now !
MAN: Are you a nurse ?
STELLA: Yes . The washroom 's down there on your right .
SERGEANT: Can I help ?
STELLA: Keep an eye on that side of the ship .
MARY: I 'll need all your boiling water .
TESTA: We should be out of this momentarily . There 's nothing to worry about .
ALICE: Thank you . That makes me feel so much etter .
O'FLANAGAN: Trust me , I 'm a priest . We 're in shit up to our ears . Who wants last rites ?
GUARD ONE: Damn ! I want that patient shot on sight !
TED: Maybe you got ta be crazy to end up behind the eight ball like this . Anyway , you find out pretty fast who your friends are when you 're on the lamb .
PROFESSOR 1: And I say essence precedes existence .
PROFESSOR 2: You 're crazy ! Existence precedes essence .
PROFESSOR 1: Essence !
PROFESSOR 2: Existence !
TED: The last thing I wanted was Elaine to see me down on my luck . Well , it was just my luck . In she walked with a group from the space program .
ELAINE: I do n't know who you are or how you lost your sight , but I 'll never forget this night as long as I live .
SIMON: Striker .
TED: Kurtz , you 're drunk . Who 's in command of this ship ?
SIMON: That damn computer has taken over . I 'm getting out .
TED: Then Elaine was right .
SIMON: Do n't talk to me about Elaine . Outta my way !
TED: Pull yourself together ! We 've got to
SIMON: Father , what should I do ?
O'FLANAGAN: Have you considered suicide , my son ?
CONTROLLER 1: Let me try , sir . Come in , Mayflower . Over . Come in . Over . Damnit !
CONTROLLER 2: Let me try , sir . Come in . Over . Damnit !
CONTROLLER 3: Let me try , sir .
CONTROLLER 5: Give 'em the lead !
STELLA: I 'm afraid that leg 's going to have to come off .
WOMAN: I 'm terrified .
STELLA: And I 'm a nurse . Everything will be okay . Pass it on .
JIMMY: Are you feeling okay , mister ?
TED: I 'm feeling just fine , son . Just fine .
ELAINE: Simon , I
JACOBS: Maybe she 's got her shit together .
TED: Elaine !
ELAINE: Ted !
TED: Elaine , what 's going on ?
ELAINE: Ted , there 's no time to explain .
OVEUR: Packers seven Vikings three
ELAINE: Ted , I was wrong about you .
TED: We all make mistakes , Elaine .
ELAINE: How could I ever have doubted you ?
TED: That 's all behind us now , Elaine . And no matter what happens , I want you to know I 've always loved you .
ELAINE: I love you , Ted .
TED: This is Mayflower One calling mission control . Do you read me ? Over .
CONTROLLER 3: If you say so .
CONTROLLER 1: Could be those sunspots .
JACOBS: Could be your dishwashing detergent .
COMMISSIONER: The boys downtown are taking the heat from the boys in Washington and the boys
KRUGER: Forget it . I was reading .
COMMISSIONER: I was reading too .
KRUGER: What 's the story ?
COMMISSIONER: Some southern plantation owner falls in love with this poor
KRUGER: I was asking McCrosky , Commissioner .
CONTROLLER: Sir , we 've restored radio transmission .
KRUGER: Give it to me straight , McCrosky what 's it look like .
STELLA: General Walker is here , Billy . He wants to talk to you .
GENERAL WALKER: Billy , if we get through this thing alive , I 'd like you to get this letter to my mother .
TED: An electrical fire in the core has played havoc with the ROK-4000 computer . It 's locked us on a direct line with the sun and there 's no way we can go to manual . Captain Oveur already tried it and he 's
MAN ONE: It 's eight-thousand square feet with great parking and a twenty-year lease with option to buy .
MAN TWO: You ca n't lose , Al .
MAN THREE: He can lose . I 've seen it happen a thousand times .
JACOBS: I wish I could talk like that so macho yet so sensitive .
TESTA: The cabin temperature is rising . The passengers want to know what 's happening up here .
TED: Let us handle this end of things . Now what 's the coffee situation ?
TESTA: It just wo n't drip ! I 've tried everything . And the passengers are dropping like flies from the heat .
TED: Elaine , I 'm going back there . Just hold onto that stick and try to control this hunk of tin as best you can .
ELAINE: Ted , please be careful .
OFFICER: It does n't look good . The drip seems to e jammed up pretty bad .
MR. COFFEE: Did they change the filter and wait fo the brew sign to light up ?
OFFICER: To tell you the truth , sir , I do n't really know .
CONTROLLER 3: Eighty-three . What 's that mean ?
OFFICER: Mr. McCrosky , Mr. Coffee . Coffee , McCrosky .
MR. COFFEE: I wo n't come down for another couple hours .
ANCHOR 1: Four alarm fire rages through downtown Buffalo !
ANCHOR 2: Mercury shuttle heads for sun .
ANCHOR 1: Four alarm fire guts Tokyo apartment .
ANCHOR 2: Mercury mission in death struggle .
ANCHOR 1: Four alarm fire in downtown Moscow clears way for glorious new tractor factory .
ANCHOR 2: Capitalist , imperialist adventurism ends in space disaster .
WOMAN: If this country was run by vegetarian women who 's old men deserted them afte knocking them up instead of by meat-eating males , this thing never would have happened .
ENQUIRER: I never forget a face . 'Texas docto claims sex with chicken cures baldness ? '
STAR: 'Severed legs grow back after Utah man finds Christ ? '
MR. COFFEE: Have you got the back panel off the brew manifold ?
TED: Check .
PASSENGER: Is this a coffee bean ?
ALL PASSENGERS: He 's got a bean ! !
TED: It looks like the solder point has melted .
MR. COFFEE: Just what I thought . When the hell will you people realize that adding extra wate after the initial brew cycle overheats the system ! ! Now listen to me , Striker , and listen good .
DETECTIVE HALLICK: Who 's in charge here , Mister ?
JACOBS: Jacobs , Pisces .
KRUGER: Kruger , Sagittarius .
COMMISSIONER: Commissioner , Aquarius .
DETECTIVE HALLICK: We have information that one of you passengers is carrying a bomb and might be suicidal .
KRUGER: And what methods are those ?
DETECTIVE HALLICK: Have you heard of the Heimlich method ?
MRS. SALUCCI: This insurance policy .
DETECTIVE HALLICK: The way I read it , blowin ' up a plane in space leaves no traces , if you know what I mean .
KRUGER: I 'm not exactly sure what you mean , Captain .
DETECTIVE HALLICK: No blood . No body . No bones . No eyes . No ears . No throats .
MRS. SALUCCI: That 's what worries me .
KRUGER: He 's impotent .
COMMISSIONER: He 's suicidal .
ALL: And he 's stupid !
MR. COFFEE: This is it , Striker . You got one shot and one shot only .
TED: Contact .
CONTROLLER 2: Here are the tests we ran on thei computer . I had them xeroxed for you .
CONTROLLER 3: These are their position calculations . They 've got about ten minutes before they start to burn up .
CONTROLLER 4: Sir , your headlights are on and your doors are locked !
ELAINE: Ted , we 've only got ten minutes .
TED: Not now , Elaine .
ELAINE: I mean until we start to burn up .
TED: We 're closer to the sun than I estimated .
KRUGER: Look , Striker , I do n't know how you got into that driver 's seat but I want Simon Kurtz on that radio and I want him now !
TED: Kurtz was the one who got us into this mess in the first place . You people knew this ship was n't ready to fly . You played God with over a hundred lives , Kruger , and for what the prestige of your precious space program .
ELAINE: That was very well put , Ted .
KRUGER: Striker , you 're heading right for the sun , so do n't you think it 's a little late fo that bleeding heart liberal crap now ?
ELAINE: He 's got a point , Ted .
TED: Call me a bleeding heart , but if we get through this thing I 'm preparing a pape on alternative spending directives ecommending the transfer of space program funds to low cost housing .
KRUGER: Just put Kurtz on that radio ! !
JACOBS: Someone 's car would n't start .
SARG: That 's my little girl , my little darlin ' , my sweetheart , my honey , and you want to low her belly out with that bomb . If you last here in the computer core and the fuselage does n't give way here and the main communication lines to the cockpit hold here and this baby here does n't jam this little old unit up here and throw about two tons of hot steel through here like a hot knife through butter and the upper and lower
CONTROLLERS: No sir .
CONTROLLER 3: Should a man in his forties have a circumcision ?
TED: Well , Elaine , this might be it if those guys on the ground do n't think of something .
ELAINE: I just want you to know , I love you Ted and always will .
TED: That might be the news we 've been waiting for .
ELAINE: A b
TED: Which passenger is Joe Salucci ?
MARY: Sixteen ' C ' , why ?
TED: He 's carrying a bomb .
MARY: A b
TED: No , a bomb . Now , as discreetly as possible , I want you to move the passengers into the lounge .
MARY: What should I say ?
TED: Anything . Just do n't let Salucci think we 're onto him .
MARY: Would everyone not carrying a bomb please move to the lounge .
JOE: Do n't anyone move !
TED: Mr. Salucci , listen to me .
JOE: I do n't want to live anymore .
TED: Joe , the insurance policy wo n't help you wife and kids . You bought auto insurance , not life insurance .
JOE: What ?
TED: That 's right , Joe . Now , no one 's going to hurt you and no one has to know what 's wrong with you .
JOE: You 're sure ?
TED: I 'm sure .
JIMMY: That 's the guy from the terminal who ca n't get it up ! !
ALL CONTROLLERS: He 's got the bomb ! !
JACOB: This is just like an election in Iran .
TED: This heat 's getting unbearable .
ELAINE: But it is a dry heat , Ted .
TED: I know what you 're going to say , McCrosky knock out the wall between the cockpit and cabin and hang plants .
ELAINE: The b
TED: Why , you 'd have to be crazy to try a stunt like that .
DOCTOR'S VOICE: You 're too low in the womb , Striker ! You 've got to come out feet first !
TED: Elaine . I 'm going back there .
ELAINE: Ted I love you . Be careful .
JACOBS: How about a show just like Hollywood Squares but with kids . Gary Coleman could host .
MARY: Now I want everyone to move to the front of the cabin .
ROK: What are you doing , Ted ? Why are you wearing that mask , Ted ?
ELAINE: Simon ! Wait ! What are you doing ? !
O'FLANAGAN: Under the ' B ' , sixteen !
SIMON: I 've lost the ship and now I 've lost you , Elaine . I 'm getting out .
ELAINE: Simon , I did n't want it to end like this . We can be friends ! You 'll die out there .
SIMON: Maybe .
ELAINE: Simon , what are you saying ? !
SIMON: I 'm saying , I ca n't take the singles scene again , Elaine .
ELAINE: Simon , no !
JIMMY: You want to talk about it now , Commander ?
COMMISSIONER: Give me the President of the United States . Tell him it 's the Commissioner . I do n't know how the old man 's going to take this .
AID: Houston , sir .
PRESIDENT: This is the President What ? ! What ? !
COMMISSIONER: I do n't think that shuttle 's going to make it , sir .
PRESIDENT: Damnit , Mister , the dignity and integrity of this presidency depends on the success of that mission . And that 's my last word !
COMMISSIONER: Yes , sir .
AID: What 's our strategy on this one , sir ?
PRESIDENT: I work for the people of these United States , Frank . I have to do what 's best for them . Al , kill social security , cancel school lunches only for the poor , dismantle welfare , close all hospitals and public toilets , green light the MX-6 , invade Brazil , and bring my horse around after my nap !
ELAINE: Simon just ejected !
TED: Sit down , Elaine . If this bomb trick works we just might make it . Simon was a fool to eject now .
ELAINE: You mean
TED: That 's right premature ejection .
ELAINE: What will happen to him , Ted ?
TED: The sun will heat that thing to over 450 degrees within seconds . He 'll roast like a pig on a spit .
ELAINE: Not when I 'm with you , Ted .
TED: I guess you 'd have to be a fool not to be afraid at a time like this .
MRS. GOOCH: Are these my hands ?
FATHER O'FLANAGAN: Are you afraid ?
STELLA: I 'm a nurse . I ca n't afford to be afraid , Father .
JIMMY: Are you afraid , Scraps ?
SCRAPS: Now when there 's a guy like Ted Striker up there , Jimmy . Now how about a little scratch on the inner thigh ?
TESTA: Fifty-six percent of the passengers are afraid . Twenty-nine percent are not afraid . Eight percent are undecided and seven percent think Israel should give ack Finland .
TED: You better strap yourself in , Testa . Mission control , this is Mayflower . Over .
JACOBS: Last spring we did Europe in nine days .
MARY: Heads between the knees ! Between your own knees , Father !
TED: We 've blown the computer ! Elaine ! Set course change !
ELAINE: Set !
TED: Now !
ELAINE: Compute !
TED: Here goes .
STINSON: Al Hammil ?
CONTROLLER 3: Not anymore . It 's Rex Kramer , now .
KRAMER: I know this guy , Ted Striker . I flew with him during the war . He was a crack pilot ut he did n't have it in the crunch That is
OFFICER: They 'll hit our atmosphere in about three minutes , if they hold together . They 've lost their computer and are coming in at zero point five WORP on manual control , sir .
KRAMER: Down scope !
OFFICER 2: Sir , we have radio contact .
TESTA: We 're travelling at one half the speed of light . There is nothing to worry about . However , you might experience some temporary metabolic changes .
ELAINE: Ted , the lever !
TED: Kramer , the WORP control handle just came off in my hand .
KRAMER: I 'd give my right arm to get just one of these buttons or levers up there right now . Okay , Striker . You 're going to have to pull that lever panel off .
TED: Screw driver !
ELAINE: Will this work , Ted ?
TED: Thanks . I 've got something that might work .
KRAMER: What the hell is a man doing with a forget it . It 'll have to do , Striker .
TED: It 's working .
KRAMER: Okay , Striker . We have you on visual . Just keep her level .
TED: She 's coming apart !
ELAINE: Ted , that 's Alpha Beta !
KRAMER: Now , Striker , there are a few things you have to keep in mind as you get close to the planet 's atmosphere .
ELAINE: Ted ! We 're not stopping ! !
KRAMER: Now , once you 've made that decision you have to be very clear about you esponsibility to those people on that ship .
ELAINE: Ted !
MARY: Seat backs up . Thank you .
KRAMER: We 're all with you on this one , Striker . Now get ready to position landing gear , cut engines , and fire your retrorockets .
ELAINE: Ted , what 's going to happen to us ?
CREATURE: Hello , we 'd like you to have this flower . We 're with the Church of Mercurial Consciousness . Would you like to make a donation ?
SONNY LISTON: Gon na fuck you up . Gon na beat you like I 's your daddy
ANGELO DUNDEE: TIME !
CASSIUS: Sonny Liston you ai n't no champ ! You a chump ! You want to lose your money , bet on Sonny . He know I 'm great . He will go in eight !
A MAN: 210 Cassius Clay weighs 210 pounds .
CASSIUS: You sure you got that right ?
THE MAN: 218 . Sonny Listonthe heavyweight champion of the world weighs 218 pounds
BUNDINI: Pounds of what ? !
CASSIUS: Pounds of ugly ! He so ugly , sweat un backwards off his forehead to get away from his face ! C'mon , ear ! I turn you into a rug ! ! Rumble right now , man !
SONNY LISTON: Keep talkin ' , punk-ass faggot ! I 'll fuck you up like I 's your daddy
CASSIUS: You whup me , I 'll crawl out of the ing on my knees and catch the next jet plane out of the country .
JIMMY CANNON: That a promise ?
CASSIUS: you be the first eatin ' his words !
THE DOCTOR: 210 over 110 ? ! I ca n't let him in the ring in this condition !
REPORTERS: Liston says he 'll talk with his fists . `` Lip from Louisville . '' odds 7 1 against you . Big bet 's whether he 'll knock you out in the first round or third round or kill you altogether . You scared of him ?
CASSIUS: I 'm scared of no man . I give Sonny Liston talking lessons , boxing lessons and falling down lessons .
ANGELO DUNDEE: Man 's religion 's his own business . What kinda question 's that ?
HOWARD COSELL: can not stand you , Cassius . He eally wants to kill you
CASSIUS: Howard Cosell , you are an instigator ! How you get that way ? When I 'm done with Liston , I 'm comin ' for you !
DOCTOR: It does n't come down , I cancel this fight . You call me in an hour with his blood pressure .
BUNDINI: I 'm called Bundini , rhymes with Houdini . He was a Jew , toosome other people call me Fastblacko Daddy Mac
CASSIUS: Who Shorty ?
BUNDINI: I call him Shorty 'cause he like 'em circumcised . Original people . Like Moses . And I was a babe in a asket , too . I was born on a doorstep with a note 'cross my chest that read , `` Do the best you can for him , world . '' I had to suck the first nipple come along . I did n't run away from homeI been unnin ' to home .
CASSIUS: I study every fight . 'Til I got a plan . Wear him down two through four . Drop him in the fifth round . So the p'diction ai n't a p'diction . It 's a plan . And 'cause of all the poppin ' off I do , I know I got ta win ! That 's the truth . And why I 'm tellin ' you ?
BUNDINI: 'Cause I 'm gon na be your Inspiration . Your motivator . In your corner . Can I be in your corner , young man ?
CASSIUS: Yeah
BUNDINI: Ai n't spent much time in Miami . Where the water ?
PACHECO: 120 over 80 ? You should be asleep
CASSIUS: When you get back ?
MALCOLM X: Just now . I 'm front row , seat 7 .
RUDY: I 'm gon na find Mom and Dad .
CASSIUS: You could have stayed . Nobody got ta hide when they with me .
MALCOLM X: Nothing wrong with being cool , my other . You been working toward this moment for four years .
ANGELO DUNDEE: He 's right .
MALCOLM X: It 's a crusade in modern times . And television is beaming if off Telstar to the whole world . So Allah has brought this about for a eason Salaam alaikum , my brother
ANNOUNCER: He 's opened a cut on Liston . Liston 's never been cut !
CASSIUS: He 's nothin ' to me
ANGELO DUNDEE: No . You quit , it 's over ! Get out there . Be a yardstick . This is the big one , daddy . Get out there and run !
HOWARD COSELL: Clay , a round ago , looked like he 'd about had it , but in round six
CASSIUS: I upset the world ! I am the greatest ! I am the greatest !
HOWARD COSELL: What made him so easy for you ?
CASSIUS: I told you . Did n't I tell you ?
HOWARD COSELL: Was there any single point you knew you had him ?
CASSIUS: I had him in the first round . 'Cause I 'm the greatest ! Sam Hey , Sam ! Let him up .
GORDON DAVIDSON: I do n't care what should have een ordered ! We need a victory party right now . I got national press , the family , the champ , all kinds of folks 250 to 300 . Yes .
GIRL: Why 's he so scared ?
MALCOLM X: Man , look at that guy run !
CASSIUS: The Mummy ! `` I ca n't get away from the mummy ! '' Yeah , but that mummy too slow to catch anybody .
SAM COOKE: Hey ! The mummy always gets his man
CASSIUS: No , he do n't ! Now , do n't believe that stuff on television
A REPORTER: The people look to you . Do you plan on being a people 's champ , like Joe Louis ?
CASSIUS: Yeah . I going to be a people 's champ But not like Joe Louis , exactly
A REPORTER: Mr. Clay ?
CASSIUS: And I 'm not Clay . Clay 's the name of the people who owned by ancestors . I do n't want to be called after that slave name no more . So I 'm `` X . '' Cassius X . And I 'm a member of the Nation of Islam . The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is my spiritual guide . Malcolm X is my mentor .
REPORTERS: You a card-carrying member ? Are n't Black Muslims a hate group ?
CASSIUS: `` Card-carrying '' ? Do n't need no `` card . '' You got a Christian card ? 750 million people believe in Islam . I 'm one of them .
MALCOLM X: This is the champ 's time . And I 'm here as a friend to celebrate his victory . So I got nothing you want
CASSIUS: I 'm going to be a people 's champion . But I do n't have to be the way you want me to be . I 'm gon na be what I want . And I 'm free to think any way I want
MALCOLM X: I was leaving , saw the light onhow come you 're up ?
CASSIUS: watchin ' a show on termitesthey knockin ' down this house , here .
MALCOLM X: I been invited to speak at Ibadan University in Nigeria . C'mon with me ?
CASSIUS: Six million in your house and you do n't know it . Where ?
MALCOLM X: Africa . You been there ?
CASSIUS: Africa ? No . Only Rome . Yeah , man , let 's go !
MALCOLM X: Nkrumah stayed with me when he was a student in New York , so we 'll stop in Ghana
CASSIUS: When we leaving ?
MALCOLM X: Next Thursday .
CASSIUS: What is it ?
MALCOLM X: You ever been so angryhave you ever been so angry that you 'd explode ?
CASSIUS: Tore out a picture of Emmett Till when I was little . Could n't take my eyes to itcould n't look at it . Barb-wire around his neck to a 75- pound cotton-gin fan . Took out his eye . The cruelty to itI could n't look at itcould n't throw it away .
MALCOLM X: What else ?
CASSIUS: I thought , `` What I do wrong to be so low that people could do that to people like me ? '' It made me feel ashamed . And that makes no sense . But that 's what it was .
MALCOLM X: when I heard about the fou girls bombed in the 16th Street Church in Birmingham ? The prohibitions of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad prevented me from speaking my voice in action . Because Birmingham was part of the civil rights movement , begging fo a place at the white man 's table But dead childrenare dead children . So the anger I felt , I had to contain . I locked that down ! So tight my muscles seized . I lost control over the right side of my ody . Leg did n't workright arm did n't work . `` I 'm having a stroke , '' I thought . I had to hold it in 'cause I wanted , all I wanted was to BREAK SOMETHING ! Break a partany part of this system . Because you are so provoked as a human being . In your spirit . In your heart At the death of children . But I COULD DOnothing .
CASSIUS: You can fix that
MALCOLM X: I do n't know . I will try when we get back . Until then I will live each day as if I am already dead .
ELIJAH MUHAMMAD: Only after long service and high merit in the spiritual and physical ebirth of Afro-American peopleis one granted an original name . But you are special . A world champion . So there is a gift I wish to give you . From this day forward you will be known as Muhammad Aliwhich means `` one worthy of praise , '' and Ali means `` most high . ''
CASSIUS: Muhammad Ali . `` Worthy of praise '' Thank you !
ELIJAH MUHAMMAD: Be very careful what you sayyou words reflect on the nation of Islam , now .
CASSIUS: Yes , sir .
ELIJAH MUHAMMAD: Up until now , I have entrusted you spiritual development to Brothe Malcolm . I do not feel this is a wise course anymore .
CASSIUS: This is a great honor , Messenger
A NEIGHBOR: One more . Thank you .
ALI: When the contract run out . I want lack lawyers and managers . Chauncey Eskridge on North La Salle Street
ODESSA CLAY: dinner !
ALI: You saying I 'm just like him ?
ODESSA CLAY: I 'm saying , if he was your age today , he 'd do the same as you . And he knows that .
MALCOLM X: What is it , Joseph ?
BETTY SHABAZZ: Malcolm ?
MALCOLM X: Cassius wo n't be coming to Africanot with me .
BETTY SHABAZZ: Go anyway . Do n't put it off . It 's not safe here .
ALI: Hey , man , where they put the real pilot ? What you doin ' up here ?
PILOT: I amthe pilot . He 's the copilot Here , Mr. Clay , sit down
ALI: No , man , I meantin L'ville , when I growed up , they barely let black folks drive buses .
THE PILOT: Here we are . Cote d'IvoireAfrica .
MARLIN THOMAS: Anything ?
THE MAN: on the phone with his wife . She 's having a hard time sleepingbaby 's kicking a lot
MARLIN THOMAS: Motor Pool , here , have a Chevy parts catalogue ?
MALCOLM X: Brother Muhammad
ALI: Hey , man ! ! !
MALCOLM X: And I heard you were coming .
ALI: We just got here now And , maaan , the brothers were flyin ' a DC 8 . Flippin ' switches , navigatin ' , filing flight plans , talkin ' French
MALCOLM X: Whenuh , Liberia . When you fighting Liston ?
ALI: November .
MALCOLM X: This is Maya Angelou and Ambassado Huang Ha . Amando Gonzalez is from Cuba . Taher Kaid is the Ambassado from Algeria .
ALI: Man , where should I go ? We 're planning on Egypt .
MALCOLM X: Algeria . See Ben Bella Go to Mecca , Medina . I just came ack . Made my seven circuits around the Kaaba , prayed at sunrise There were two million peoplepilgrims from all over . Dressed all the same , high and low , the same . Blonde-haired , blue-eyed Muslims . Arabs . Blacks . Yeah . All of them , Muslims praying together .
BRADLEY: Un moment
MARLIN THOMAS: Malcolm bumped into Cassius Clay . Muhammad Aliwhatever he calls himself
BRADLEY: I thought that was all over . Is Clay going to support Malcolm 's U.N. esolution ?
MARLIN THOMAS: I do n't know .
BRADLEY: Find out . We 'll pick up on Malcolm in Liberia ourselves .
MALCOLM X: Drank from the well of Zem-Zem And you should visit Cairo . I have friends there in
ALI: should n't have quarreled with the Honorable Elijah
MALCOLM X: What ?
ALI: You should n't have quarreled with Elijah Muhammad .
MALCOLM X: Brother Muhammad
ALI: SonjiSonji Roi
SONJI: What you keep sayin ' my name for ?
ALI: 'Cause I love it , girl . How long you been workin ' for Herbert ?
SONJI: 'Bout a year . I sell `` Muhammad Speaks '' over the phone
ALI: What kind of name is that ?
SONJI: My father named me after Sonja Henie .
ALI: What 's your father do ?
SONJI: He was shot in a poker game when I was two . He do n't do nothin ' . Sonja , on the other hand , was an ice skater , and my mother died when I was eleven .
ALI: So who raised you ?
SONJI: Godparents , but I been on my own , doing my own thing
ALI: Whatcha doin ' tomorrow ? Go ridin ' with me .
SONJI: No . I got ta work , you know .
ALI: I square it with Herbert . I got a ecord player in my car .
SONJI: A record player ? C'mon . How come it do n't skip ?
ALI: Got springs and stuff .
SONJI: Herbert said you met The Beatles .
ALI: Yeah . Only one of 'em 's smartthe one with the glasses .
SONJI: he 's my favorite .
ALI: People all screaming and fainting . I asked him , `` This the way they act when you get big ? ''
SONJI: What he say ?
ALI: He said , `` Champ . The more real you get , the more unreal it gon na get . ''
SONJI: Wow
ALI: Let 's go
SONJI: Yeah
ALI: Where you live ?
SONJI: I 'm takin ' you there
ALI: I think I gon na keep you around forever , girl .
SONJI: Well , I 'm not too busy right now , soI 'll think on it .
ALI: Herbert said you were n't a Muslim .
SONJI: Cover my hair ? No make-up ? Long dresses ? Honey , please . Were you a virgin ?
ALI: Why ?
SONJI: 'Cause you so `` gone '' off a little good time .
ALI: I 'm no virginbut I may as well e. I ai n't jokin ' ! I always know when I know . See this face ? I mean , you got a pretty face for a girl 's face , but you ever seen somethin ' as pretty as me ? Now , you about five-foot-threethat 's too small . But I overlook that , too , 'cause
SONJI: Thank you so much .
ALI: 'cause of your spirit !
SONJI: My `` spirit '' ?
ALI: Yeah . 'Cause you too much fun !
SONJI: You serious ?
ALI: But you got ta be a Muslim .
SONJI: Huh ? How you do that ? Step over a oomshazaamyou a Muslim ?
ALI: Maaan , I ai n't never been with a girl like you .
SONJI: Baby , maybe you ai n't ever gon na be with any other .
HERBERT: What ?
ALI: That 's right . I wan na marry her .
HERBERT: You ca n't marry that girl ! She was a date ! Have some fun ! She 's not your wife ! You do n't marry this girl . Sign there . Management papers . My father will kill me .
BUNDINI: True love !
BINGHAM: Watch what you signing , Ali .
HERBERT: Nothing to do with you .
BINGHAM: You talkin ' to me , or someone walk inna room , fat boy ? Anything 's do to with me I think 's to d-d-do with meI 'm st-st-still a Christian .
ALI: And get me a kosher cooklady who cooks at Malcolm 's temple . Put my other on the payroll . 50g a yea for drivin ' and jivin ' .
HERBERT: Lana Shabazz
ALI: Yeah . How 'bout it , Howard . You be my official full-time photographer .
BINGHAM: I ai n't goin ' on your payroll . I like it freelance . Emphasis on `` free . ''
HERBERT: Muhammad . She 's notfor you . When I met her , she was working at a cocktail lounge with a bunny tail on her backside .
BUNDINI: What were you doin ' down at a cocktail lounge , Herbert ? Sellin ' `` Muhammad Peeks '' ?
HERBERT: Sober up and say something to this man , Bundini . You supposed to be his `` inspiration . ''
BUNDINI: I got to know about Sonji , Muhammad . She got a sister ?
BINGHAM: You been s-s-saving it up , training , Champ . You ca n't unleash it on this girl all sudden . You may kill her ! Maybe you should spread it around more before you tie it down .
ALI: No . Marriage is the cornerstone of Muslim life .
HERBERT: Sonji Roi is not a Muslim !
ALI: She gon na be a Muslim , now ! So fix it up , Herbert .
JOSEPH 13X: Why we meeting ?
JOE SMILEY: The idea wastomakeMalcolm smaller , you know ? Diminished ; obscure ? Not to turn him into a messiah . What I got , now , is Malcolm shoulder to shoulder with Martin Luther King . And Malcolm running all over the world getting Ben Bella and Nasse to denounce racism in the U.S. while we 're competing over there with the Soviets .
JOSEPH 13X: You got bad breath , man .
JOE SMILEY: Thyroid . I got a stab wound in 1961 . They took it out . We got ta talk about this guy , too .
JOSEPH 13X: When do I get my expenses eimburseddry cleaning lots of suits is n't free
ALI: What you drinkin ' ?
BUNDINI: What am I drinkin ' ? Water 's what I 'm drinkin ' , champ ! I 'm a natural man
ALI: What 's goin ' on ? We 're late .
BUNDINI: Come on in ! What 's that ?
ROOM SERVICE: What you wanted , is n't ita wate glass with vodka ?
BUNDINI: That was before
ROOM SERVICE: Before what ?
BUNDINI: Before you showed up
SONJI: I fine runnin ' around in all these cute short things for you . I submissive to you . But I ai n't gon na be submissive to the Brothe X 's and what they think . They askin ' me questions alla time anyway .
ALI: What questions ? !
SONJI: I do n't drink . I do n't smoke . I converted to Islam for you and
DADDIO: Hey there , old , aware ones . And you , too , my fair onesThis is `` Daddio 's Jazz Patio . '' ON KBCA this fine day , which is A-okay
MALCOLM X: As-Salaam Alaikum
THE GATHERED: Wa-Alaikum-Salaam
MALCOLM X: Hold it , hold it , brothers ! Let 's be cool .
CRAZY MAN: Ambushed !
ALI: What ?
CRAZY MAN: They killed Malcolmthey shot Malcolm .
ALI: You were the firstyou walked me forward , my brotheryou were the first
SAM COOKE: `` Been a long , long time comin ' , but a change gon na come , yes it is ''
NIGHT: HOWARD COSELL the arena is surrounded by FBI , the stands are only half full , the promoter has taken out a million- dollar insurance policy due to Cassius Clay 's membership in the militant and radical Black Muslims ecause of death threats . Oh , and y the waySonny Liston is here , too .
HOWARD COSELL: It 's over ; it 's over !
SONJI: You okay ? What 's wrong ?
ALI: Why you done up like that ?
SONJI: I 'm dyin ' and'cause this is how I dress ! I dyin ' for you out of worry
ALI: `` Worry '' ?
SONJI: Yeah . And all you care about is if I look dull enough ?
ALI: The world looks at me , girl ! What if I straightened my hair , live in the white suburbs ? How I am says something !
SONJI: Well , sorry you do n't like how I am
ALI: Where 's Herbert ?
HERBERT: If you want , have no contact with her for ninety days . Then you make a public statement of divorce in the mosque , and Islamic law will be satisfied .
BUNDINI: `` Satisfied ? `` satisfaction is not makin ' it with the woman who send you to the moon ?
ALI: Please stay , Brother Herbert .
COSMETOLOGIST: You got the prettiest eyes
ALI: Yeah ?
BUNDINI: He so pretty , when you look up `` pretty '' in the dictionary , he too pretty to be there .
ALI: Huh ?
BUNDINI: Champ . It 's Eskridge
ALI: You know about this ?
HOWARD COSELL: Cassius , it is my opinion you
ALI: And I 'm not Cassius Clay . That 's a slave name . I 'm a free man . I 'm Muhammad Ali .
HOWARD COSELL: You know , I apologize to you . On the air . Your name is Muhammad Ali . You have the right to be called whatever you want .
ALI: You make a lot of mistakes for a so-called educated man . You really go to law school ?
HOWARD COSELL: Yes , Muhammad . And to think I gave up a lucrative practice for the likes of you .
ALI: I 'm the best thing that eve happened to you , Howard Cosell . Without me you be a tall white man with a microphone in his mouth .
HOWARD COSELL: And without meyou 'd be a mouth .
ALI: Keep talking . You were saying something half-smart
HOWARD COSELL: They want to make an example out of you .
ALI: Why ? I 'm no Stokely Carmichael , H. Rap Brown
HOWARD COSELL: All they are is political . They tell people how they ought to be . But you are the HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION of the WORLD . You 're important . And they do n't like your militancy , your politics . So , they 'll make an example out of you .
ALI: of a good `` Ne-gro , '' who do what he told ?
HOWARD COSELL: Yes . Or , to demonstrate here is what happens to your ass if you do n't
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: You do six weeks basicyou go into the Reservesyou do n't go to Vietnamyou get to boxyou even get to keep the money
HERBERT: The Messenger would not object if you joined under these terms .
ALI: I stay out of jail and I get to fight .
HERBERT: All you have to do is accept the induction . And life goes on .
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: They call your name . You say yes .
ALI: Yes .
A MAN: Federal Bureau of Investigation . Mr. Clay , you 're under arrest fo efusing induction
BINGHAM: You know what you j-j-just said ?
LIPSYTE: From Europe to Chinaevery home in Americathe world 's gon na know what the heavyweight champion of the world said about the U.S. war
ALI: So what ? I ai n't gon na be what anybody else want me to be . I 'm not afraid to e what I want . And think how I want .
LIPSYTE: Nixon , the Republicans , Boxing Commission in New York , Cleveland and L.A . But you 're also getting attacked as unpatriotic by the NAACP , Roy Wilkins , Jackie Robinson , the New York Times and Joe Louis
ALI: People are following me
BOB ARUM: I got almost nowhere I can promote a fight for you . Plus , I think they 're going to vacate you from the crown .
ALI: What ?
BOB ARUM: Yeah . If you 're convicted .
ALI: They gon na take away what no fighter in the world can ?
BOB ARUM: And New York may revoke your boxing license .
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: You sure you want to do all this ? Your next three to four years are every heavyweight 's prime . And there are few of those years
ALI: What 'bout Terrell ?
BOB ARUM: We 'll know if we can fight Terrell in Illinois this afternoon . Terrell 's running his mouth . He said if you 're called , you should serve
ALI: Motherfucker . He got a deferment for bein ' too tall , or havin ' flat feet . Why do n't he serve for me ? Tellin ' me what I should do
BOB ARUM: I got to get you some fights . Fast .
COMMISSIONER: You understand we could take away your license to fight Terrell in Illinois ?
ALI: Yes .
COMMISSIONER: Are you prepared to apologize ? About your unpatriotic remarks that you made ?
ALI: Apologize ? No .
COMMISSIONER: You said that you were the people 's champion .
ALI: Yes , sir !
COMMISSIONER: Do you think you 're acting like the people 's champion ? !
ALI: Yes , sir . I am not going to apologize to you . This is n't a courtroom . And I do n't have to sit here and answer your questions .
ERNIE TERRELL: Tell Clay he can get on after me .
ALI: What ?
ERNIE TERRELL: Get on the scale after
ALI: What you call me ?
ERNIE TERRELL: Only thing I knows you as Cassius Clay !
ALI: Announce it right here or from flat on your back !
ALI: If the court would give me my sentence right now instead of waiting and stalling .
JUDGE INGRAHAM: My pleasure . The jury has found you guilty of refusing induction into the United States armed forces . I sentence you to the maximum sentence allowablefive years ' imprisonment and a fine of ten thousand dollars . Fast enough ? Your attorney will lodge an appeal . While you 're out on bond , I order your passport surrendered . I 'll not have you enefitting yourself by fighting abroad
ALI: Watch now
BELINDA: See , you do n't need to fight no more
ALI: So what 's fresh , girl ?
BELINDA: Everything fresh !
ALI: What 's the freshest of the freshest ?
BELINDA: Doughnuts just came out
ALI: Feed me those things , I got ta come ack as a wrassler . 645 pounds . I 'd still be prettybut I be fat pretty
BELINDA: You do n't remember when you met me once beforelong ago
ALI: I remember something Wha 's you name ?
BELINDA: You know my name ! You came to my school , right before you win the title . Interviewed you for the school paper . I was eleven .
ALI: You had a long braid
BELINDA: Yeah ! You called me little Indian girl , then .
ALI: That was you ?
BELINDA: I loved you then , like all those kids . I never stopped . I still do .
ALI: You see the Ellis-Quarry fight ?
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: Yes We 'll be in front of the U.S. Court of Appeals next month . We 'll lose . Then we appeal to the Supreme Court .
ALI: Ellis the champ ? Man . I beatin ' on him since we was sixteen . They give Ellis to Joe Frazier ? Frazier 'll kill him . Then they out of juice . Where 's the gate ? So they got ta let me fight . I fight Ellis in a phone boothmiddle of Times Squareyou think that draw a crowd ?
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: Draw a crowd or not draw a crowd , Muhammad , is NOT going to make a difference with your boxing licenses . They do n't want you to fight . ACLU 's handling your case against the New York Boxing Commission . They discovered New York 's got actual ex-murderers and ex-rapists currently licensed to fight . But evoked yours ?
ALI: Tijuana ?
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: No . State Department refused permission for the one-hour visa . No fight in Tijuana . Look
ALI: Ca n't fight here . Ca n't fight outside the country
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: I know people in the restaurant usinesswant to start up a chain . Muhammad Ali 's `` Champ Burger '' '' Muhammad Malts , '' `` Fist Full of Fries '' all of that .
ALI: Why I want to be in the restaurant usiness ? !
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: 'Cause you need the money .
ALI: How much all this gon na cost ?
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: Too much . They do that to you , too , you know .
ALI: Look out !
CUSTOMER: Hey , champ !
ALI: Not then
BELINDA: First time ? 1961Sister Khalilah introduced you at assembly . You said you would be heavyweight champion of the world by the time you were twenty-one !
ALI: I always tell the truth
BELINDA: I was eleven . I interviewed you for the student paper . You called me `` little Indian girl , '' 'cause I wore my hair real long , in a aidI told you '' Man , you scribble ! You ca n't even write ! You ought to go back to school until you do it better ''
JIMI HENDRIX: `` There must be some kind of way outta here , said the joker to the thief ''
JIMI HENDRIX: `` No reason to get excited , the thief , he kindly spoke . There are many here among us , who feel that life is but a joke . ''
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: struck out at the appellate level in New Orleans . So we 're heading back to the Supreme Court
ALI: Thought we already got turned down there .
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: I 'm petitioning on a conscientious objection basis . Religious belief . We 'll petition that your sincere eligious belief prohibits you from shooting people . I believe they 'll hear that
ALI: Where the money come from , Chauncey ? Herbert tell me I 'm runnin ' on empty . Put aside `` how do that happen '' ? Licenses all revoked . No passport . I ca n't fight here . Ca n't fight abroad . And what happen if I lose the Supreme Court ?
CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE: It 's all over . You go to jail fo five years .
JIMI HENDRIX: `` Outside in the cold distance , a wild cat did growl , two riders were approaching , and the wind began to HOWL ! ''
BINGHAM: Ellis does n't belong in there .
ALI: Man give him a shot , he took a shot .
BINGHAM: I saw Bundini in New York .
ALI: How 's he ?
BINGHAM: bad shape . You better get you elt b-b-back Belinda brings coffee to Bingham
BELINDA: No , he did n't . I told them about the one on the waymyself .
BINGHAM: You p-p-p-promised you 'd call them .
ALI: I 'll call 'em , I 'll call 'em May-may ! It go in one end and come out the other .
BELINDA: You wan na try changing her , for the experience ?
ALI: You so much better at it , mama .
BELINDA: That happen , you promise me you put some new people around you .
ALI: I need Angelo , Rudy , Ferdie
BINGHAM: Ali , she 's talkin ' about `` Brother '' Herbert .
BELINDA: Where are they when we need them ? You got Gene Kilroy droppin ' off groceries like charity . Borrowin ' money from my folks . So ?
FRAZIER: Norton 's big and strong , but
HOWARD COSELL: Hold on one secondwe have a caller . Go ahead .
ALI: I ai n't interested in the paycheck , I 'd fight Joe Frazier for free in a phone booth in Times Square , if I was n't broke . I still will .
HOWARD COSELL: Did you say you were broke ? How can you be broke ?
ALI: I 'm saying it 's time for everybody to quit lying ! Muhammad Ali is the champ ! I have to , I 'll get the fight on myself . And if they offer me money , I ai n't gon na turn it down .
ELIJAH MUHAMMAD: Get me my son , Herbert , on the telephone !
BELINDA: Muhammad ?
ALI: You ca n't call me that no more .
BELINDA: Hell , I ca n't . I 'm defying them by talking to you . And being with you .
ALI: Why n't you call an ambulance or a doctor ?
LANDLADY: Would n't let me . Said he knew youand to call you , Mr. Ali He 's not been out for three days
BINGHAM: Bundini !
BUNDINI: Watchu ' doin ' here ? Gim me that short dog !
ALI: What 's wrong with you , man ? !
BUNDINI: Nothin ' wrong with me !
BINGHAM: A mysteryd-d-d-daylight
BUNDINI: Leave me alone !
ALI: I leave you alone . You called me !
BUNDINI: That were a week ago
ALI: What you shame yourself like this for , maaan ? ! Why you shame yourself ? !
BUNDINI: Lem me alone ! I 'm flyin ' ! The Sky Chief talk through me . I know the word !
ALI: You know `` low . '' You so low , the curb look like up !
BUNDINI: Yeah ? The king got ta go home to his throne ! From the root to the fruit !
ALI: Those rhymes is old . Forget 'em .
BUNDINI: God do n't care about you ! Do n't care about me ! In all of everything , we mean nothin ' . He do n't know us . We be . And that 's the onliest thing he did . And that 's good 'cause that 's why we free . But free ai n't easy . Free is real . And realness is a motherfucker It eats raw meat . It walk in its own shoes . It does not waver Yeah
ALI: Yeah .
BUNDINI: Forgive me , Muhammad . Take me back
ALI: No . There 's no `` back '' to take you to
HOWARD COSELL: Do n't bother me . I 'm a world- famous broadcaster and you 're an ex-champion with diminished skills . I ca n't be seen you , it would be calamitous to my reputation .
ALI: Put me on , Howard .
HOWARD COSELL: Muhammad , I 'd do anything for you . But I got bosses who only give a damn about Nielsen ratings .
ALI: I guaranteeit will be a historical and momentous night !
HOWARD COSELL: I thought you were resolute in you esolve to regain your crown
ALI: If tomorrow they say `` We want you to fight Joe Frazier . Madison Square Garden . Millions and millionses of dollars . Here 's you license back . '' I will tell them `` I am sorry , but I am done . ''
HOWARD COSELL: What about Frazier ?
ALI: You 'll have to wonderwhat me and Smokin ' Joe would have looked like .
HOWARD COSELL: You surprise me , Muhammad
ALI: Howard , you losing your hearing along with your hair ? Do n't put questions to it ! I am through fighting . 'Cause I got a bigger and more important match comin ' up . The U.S. government . A heavier contender .
HOWARD COSELL: Do you think you 're going to jail ?
ALI: I do n't know , but it 's going to be a shocking and terrible fight . In fact , they might wish they let me stay in boxing .
HOWARD COSELL: Joe Frazier told me on this show he would knock you out .
ALI: There you go , agitatin ' . You ask Smokin ' Joe what he been smokin ' ? ! Joe Frazier even dream he can whup me ? He better wake up and apologize But , if I WAS to jump in the ring with Joe , here 's what you might see Ali comes out to meet Frazier , ut Frazier starts to retreat ; If Frazier goes back an inch farther , he 'll wind up in a ringside seat ; Ali swings with a left , Ali swings with a right . Frazier keeps backin ' , but there 's not enough room . It a matter of time before Ali lowers the boom ; Now Ali lands with a right , what
ALI: I do n't wan na fight no more . Not with you
FRAZIER: Shut up . Get in .
ALI: To be closer to you , honey .
FRAZIER: Fuck you .
ALI: There be two undefeated heavyweight champions ! And they ai n't fighting !
FRAZIER: I wan na fight you ! Said it a hundred times . The Man wo n't let you fight no more . What you complainin ' to me for ?
ALI: 'Cause you got ta get behind this and we got ta do this .
FRAZIER: We '' got ta '' do nothin ' ! ! !
ALI: You wan na get this on , Joe ? You and me ? Or not ? !
FRAZIER: What about your license ?
ALI: I can fight in Atlanta .
FRAZIER: How 's that ? What about the Boxing Commission ?
ALI: Georgia ai n't got no state boxing commission . And Atlanta got a lack city council ; a liberal Jewish mayor , Sam something . It all set . I do a prelim in Atlanta with Jerry Quarry . But we got to get the steamroller movin ' now .
FRAZIER: What I got to do ?
ALI: You announce that if I beat Quarry you give me the title shot . So what you saymaaan ?
FRAZIER: My daddy was a sharecropper . I worked in a slaughterhouseright on that corner . I came up from nothing . What I got , I got with this . And I already got the title . So I got nothing to win and everything to lose .
ALI: But you know you ai n't the champ yet .
FRAZIER: Yeah '' yet . '' All right . You beat Quarry , I 'll get inna ring and fuck you up
ALI: I 'm fine . Thanks .
ANGELO DUNDEE: TIME ! !
ALI: What you want ?
BUNDINI: Take me back , boss .
ALI: You want me to take you back ?
BUNDINI: I 'm clean . And you a resurrection . This is God 's act . Anybody love poo people and little people and fucked-up people got ta be a prophet .
ALI: You ca n't hit what you ca n't see .
BUNDINI: Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee .
BUNDINI: You the man ! You Superman ! Ai n't no kryptonite in this ring tonight !
BELINDA: you do n't need their management
HERBERT: As-Saalam AlaikumBrother Muhammad
ALI: All praise to Allah Alaikum Salaam
HERBERT: The Messenger has lifted the suspension , Muhammad . Congratulations .
ALI: You saying I can be a Muslim again , Herbert ?
HERBERT: Yes .
ALI: I never stopped . Like I neve stopped being champ .
HERBERT: I begged my father to reinstate you .
ALI: When ? After I promoted Quarry fight ? After I won it ?
HERBERT: We can get you Frazier .
ALI: I already got Frazier .
HERBERT: We can get you five million dollars for Frazier .
ALI: Are we talking management , talking money or talking religion ?
HERBERT: When you
ALI: When I got leery and talked up how come I 'm broke , then came the suspension . Now , you explain that to me , my brother ?
HERBERT: It 's my father
ALI: I love the Nation , Herbert . I love Elijah Muhammad . But it do n't own me .
HERBERT: My brother !
ALI: Yeah
BINGHAM: You b-b-becoming a Christian ? Forgive and forget ?
HOWARD COSELL: Muhammad , you T.K.O . 'ed 'em
ALI: What are you talking about , Howard ? Quarry ?
HOWARD COSELL: No . `` The Supreme Court ruled today in the case of the United States vs. Cassius Clay , a.k.a . Muhammad Ali '' You won an 8-0 unanimous decision . You 're free .
ALI: I 'm free .
ANGELO DUNDEE: What are you talking about ?
ALI: Supreme Court set me free .
BUNDINI: That 's 'cause they know the king is gon na go home to his throne . And they know everybody 's with you , now . And they wan na be on the RIGHT side !
ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen , fifteen ounds of boxing for the heavyweight championship of the world
ALI: Hook 's comin ' . Lean back , man ! Move back ! WORK LEGS !
ANGELO DUNDEE: Hell of a fight , champ
ALI: Shut up ! I lost . Get outta here
RUDY: Go on ! Everybody out !
ANGELO DUNDEE: Ferdie , take a look at this It was still a hell of a fight .
ALI: Where 's Belinda ?
PACHECO: She fainted They took her to the aid station . She 's okay .
ALI: My hands was in sand , Angie . My feet in water
ANGELO DUNDEE: Maybe we shoulda had more time etween Blin and this , you knowto get back into
ALI: Woulda , shoulda , coulda After three-and-a-half years , thisfrom how far backcomeback is .
PRESS: Were you robbed ?
ALI: I lost . You lose , you do n't shoot yourself . The world goes on .
ANOTHER REPORTER: Joe said he did n't think you wanted to fight him again
ALI: Oh , how wrong he is .
BELINDA: My God . They killed you !
PACHECO: Get away from her . What is that ?
ALI: I ai n't dead , baby ! C'mon .
PACHECO: It 's broke . I thinkI think you jaw 's broke .
ALI: Ai n't stoppin ' nothin ' ! Nothin ' stoppin ' !
HERBERT: Now that Smokin ' Joe 's run out of tomato cans to beat up , I finally got Yank to commit to a rematch with you in about six months . Frazier said he 'd be happy with three mil
ALI: Foreman call me one time after he won the Olympics
BINGHAM: B-b-be easy gettin ' a Frazier fight now . He ai n't the champ of anything except getting knocked down .
ALI: So .
ANGELO DUNDEE: So we only eked this one out . And George Foreman makes Frazier look like a sissy .
PACHECO: You see their fight ?
HOWARD BINGHAM: You mean the Joe Frazier falling- down lesson ?
PACHECO: And Foreman is 24 . You are 32 years old . I do n't want to see your head get turned into someone 's ull's-eye .
ANGELO DUNDEE: but , you go ? We 're the corner , same as always . But it ai n't gon na e easy .
ALI: You think I still got the tools ?
ANGELO DUNDEE: You got the tools , Daddy . But they different .
ALI: Well , you better sharpen 'em up . 'Cause we goin ' to Africa .
BUNDINI: The motherland . From the root to the fruit . We gon na rumblein the jungle .
ALI: It 's time to be heavyweight champion of the world again .
BUNDINI: Yeah , man !
DON KING: `` Rumble in the Jungle ! '' That 's the name I given it .
REPORTERS: Don . Zaire ? Why not Antarctica ? What 's wrong with New York City ?
DON KING: Because you miss the significance . I dream , as Martin Luther King once dreamt , that a man could be judged y the content of his mind . This is about black men helping black men , overcoming four hundred years of racial depression to the dawn of a new day of liberationfinancial and otherwise .
ALI: Man , you crazy .
DON KING: Ten million dollars . With one stroke of the pen , you split the world 's biggest emolumation of the history of sports !
ALI: What are they saying , man ? ! ! ! Why they saying that ?
ALI: Ali , boma ye !
ALI: Fast . Six left jabs flash from his chest and shoulder , followed by a ight hook and left and right uppercuts .
KIDS: Ali , boma ye !
ALI: Ali , boma ye George Foreman !
TEENAGER: You beat them , Ali !
ALI: Foreman ? I kill him !
HOWARD COSELL: Some of usNorman , meare worried . How you gon na dance against George ? ? He 's sparring with a middleweight , training to cut you off . He gets you against the ropes , he can knock you out with either hand .
ALI: What 's the odds ?
HOWARD COSELL: Two-and-a-half-to-one . Against . We 're worried you 're going to get hurt .
ALI: This 'll be the biggest upset since Sonny Liston . I want all of you to write it down ! This fight is no contest !
HOWARD COSELL: Muhammad , I 'm sorry . I have to ask . Are you really fast enough , anymore ? To beat George Foreman ? Many people believe you do n't have the same skills , that you are not the same man you used to be ten years ago .
ALI: Howard . I did n't want to talk about this , especially in front of everybody . But I talked to you wife ! And she told me you 're not the man you used to betwo years ago !
ALI: Salaam Alaikum , brothers ! The champ is here !
BELINDA: Here 's your water .
ALI: Bottled water . Frozen steaks . Brought all this stuff like Africans do n't have steaks
BELINDA: You could pick up parasites
ALI: They eat it .
BELINDA: You 're seeing what you want to see , Muhammad
ALI: Mobutu eats it
BELINDA: Mobutu is taking care of Mobutu and stealing all the wealth and sending it to Switzerland
ALI: So ? What 's that do with any of why we here ?
BELINDA: We 're here 'cause Don King got Mobutu to put up ten million dollars . Don King do n't give a damn about Africa . He worse than Herbert .
ALI: Here come `` Herbert . ''
BELINDA: Yeah . 'Cause where was he when we was broke and borrowing money ? And Bundini and all them that `` love you '' ? Disappeared , is where they were . All over you when you got it and drop off you when you do n't
ALI: Money ? I do `` money-making '' whenever I want . Money is easy .
BELINDA: And Don King fit right inthat double-breasted hipster is now a dashiki-wearing rip-off .
ALI: Don King delivered the first black- promoted championship fight in Africa !
BELINDA: Don King talks black , lives white and thinks green ! Why you defending him and `` brother '' Herbert ?
ALI: 'Cause clean-cut Muslims parading on the South Side of Chicago do n't get this done ! I got to put honkeys with connections and bad- ass niggers to it , too .
BELINDA: And now they got you up against George Foreman . Do they give a damn you could get killed ?
ALI: That what this is ? Think I gon na lose ? Puttin ' doubt on me ?
BELINDA: I think why is my Muslim husband letting himself get strung up on a cross ? It means , `` tell me . ''
ALI: Sure .
BELINDA: I 'll be back before the fight . If that 's all right , my husband
DON KING: Champ ! Champ ! George had an accident .
ANGELO DUNDEE: What are you talking about ?
DON KING: Got cut . Right above his right eye . His sparring partner 's elbow . Split it open , so
ANGELO DUNDEE: Can he fight ?
DON KING: Not for six weeks .
ANGELO DUNDEE: Are you tryin ' to pull something , Don ? Ali wants his title . And he wants it back in Zaire . George leaves , he ai n't comin ' back . George do n't like it here .
DON KING: How right you are , my suspicious and short Italian brother . And my fiduciary responsibility to this first all-black promotion is like a garden in the African sun . It must grow ! It must bloom ! It can not flower in the gloom and shade of postponement to some dome . Like the Astrodome , the Super-dome , any dome outta Zaire , where it be deprived of light and bled of water . 'Cause what gon na bleedis money . A hemorrhage of cash . blood on the floor . Double hotel costs . Double travel costs . Airplanes . Food and beverage
ANGELO DUNDEE: What do you expect us to do , Don ?
DON KING: Muhammad . Find a way to get George to stay . Be Moses in reverse do NOT let my people go ! Stay the fuck right here , in Egypt , if you 'll pardon my Swahili .
BINGHAM: L-l-l-lingala .
DON KING: What ?
BINGHAM: Lingala . They s-s-s-speak Lingala .
DON KING: Who cares ?
ANGELO DUNDEE: If George goes ? You forfeit five million . You crawl back to Cincinnati . You ai n't promotin ' a charity raffle
DON KING: If George goes ? George goes , my champion , I will get you Joe Frazier . Ali-Frazier IIIthe fight everybody want to see .
ALI: Truth isGeorge knocked hisself out .
DON KING: You bad !
ALI: I 'm a bad man !
DON KING: Ai n't no doubt about it .
ALI: And you tell the same thing to George .
DON KING: We will reschedule the fight , and to ensure George is ready , we are thinking of postponing from September 24th to October 30th .
REPORTER: What about the concert , Don ?
DON KING: That would go off as planned on September 22nd and 23rd .
ALI: Uh-huh . I want all helicopters guarded ! Private boats . Private jets . I want the airport I 'm serious I want President Mobutu and all his paratroopers . Mobutu and all his paratroopers . I want all of you `` Zaireans '' to be on guard ! Watch all strange boats tryin ' to slip away ! They might be takin ' him out .
ANGELO DUNDEE: The bus station .
ALI: Yeah . Watch the bus station . Watch everything ! Elephant caravans . He might sneak out by elephant .
ANGELO DUNDEE: What you say ?
DON KING: I ai n't talkin ' to you !
ALI: Hey ! ! !
VERONICA: I do n't think so .
ALI: What 's your name ?
VERONICA: Veronica Porche .
ALI: Like the sports car .
VERONICA: Yes .
ALI: But with a little something extra . Veronica , I know you now . C'mere , sit down .
VERONICA: Don brought me here , but I 'm not `` with '' anybody .
ALI: Where you from ?
VERONICA: L.A . But my people are from Louisiana . We 're Creole . So I 'm African , French , Spanish , my mother 's grandfather was Jewish .
ALI: Wellthey all came together real nice .
VERONICA: You know I 'm glad you said what you did . You made sure this fight stays here .
ALI: All them writers in there think Foreman gonnakill me ! What you think ?
VERONICA: Ali , boma ye .
PLIMPTON TYPE: she 's an African `` succubus . '' Means witch doctor .
BUNDINI: Succubus ? Suck my dick . They ai n't room in Africa for more than one witch doctor . And that 's B'dini .
ALI: You been to Hong Kong ? Taiwan ? Thailand ?
VERONICA: No .
ALI: I ca n't go there . All the ladies out there from Indonesia , Japan , Hawaii , India `` Ali-i-i-e-e-e ! Ali-e-e-e ! Oh , Muhammad Al-i-i-i ! '' You seen those people from Thailand ? I was in Bangkok I could n't walk . I couldn'tI just could n't do nothin ' . `` Get me outta this country ! '' The women were so pretty
BINGHAM: ' B-b-b-bout Hong Kong , man ? ! You know what I heard ?
ALI: Ladies in Thailand , their hai comes down to their kneesand they about Veronica 's complexionand they bad !
NEWS CAMERAMAN: Champ
ALI: Let 's go for a ride .
VERONICA: Holdin ' this in Africa make people proud . All over the world . They 're proud of you . Anybody can fight in Vegas .
ALI: That 's one job . I got two
VERONICA: Islamic faith help you to that ?
ALI: Listen , girl , as a Muslim , I am usted out and failed in the eyes of God . I shoulda discovered Islam at 50 ! 'Cause I am weak on women . They take my eyes and my heart followcausing me to be a lovin ' husband and a terrible husband ! green eyes and cocoa skin ? okay , rest of me , let 's go ! !
HOLMES: You ca n't lead a right hand . Not at him !
ALI: Why not ?
HOLMES: Too longto get it there . Man , I mean , to think you could hit him with a right leadit 's insulting Nobody would lead a right
SADLER: Hey , hold up , chump ! Make this chump turn me loose .
ALI: Hey ! Look ! Look at George Foreman 's trainer , feelin ' me up on purpose ! On the side , to see if I 'm in shape !
IRENE: Can I have your autograph ?
ALI: We 'll , you ai n't gon na find no fat ! Watch out ! !
SADLER: Give me that thing !
BINGHAM: Muhammad . Give her an Ali button !
SADLER: No , you ai n't . All right , give my wife an Ali button .
ALI: She 's got ta put it on .
SADLER: Give my wife one .
BINGHAM: Bo'dini , you got Ali buttons ?
ALI: `` George '' buttons is all I got . In my bedroom ! All over the bed ! Everywhere ! To remind meof all of ya ' . All of ya ' ! Reminds me of all ya ' !
BRADLEY: Je suis avec l'Agence amricane d'informations . Il ne m'est pas permis d'exprimer mes prfrences entre deux citoyens des Etats-Unis .
ANGELO DUNDEE: He gone ?
ALI: Yeah .
BELINDA: Hello , Muhammad . Bingham . Mr. Cosell .
HOWARD COSELL: HiMrs . Ali .
ALI: When did you get in ?
BELINDA: Just now . Muhammad , may I have a word with you , please ?
ALI: You know what 's going on .
BELINDA: But I do n't have to have it thrown in my face . I do n't have to read about it and have people call me up on the phone about it
ALI: I did n't mean for it to come out
BELINDA: Oh , hell , Muhammad , you got no discretion . You never did . You humiliate me !
ALI: I know that .
BELINDA: Then why you got to be visible with women ?
ALI: I did n't mean for it to be
BELINDA: I live with the casual ones . But this , thisI ca n't hold it together anymore .
ALI: I do n't want to hurt you . It 's wrong . You 're a good wife to me .
BELINDA: Then why do you disrespect me this way ? !
ALI: I respect you . I always respect you .
BELINDA: Do you love her ?
ALI: I follow my heart .
BELINDA: `` You 're following your heart '' ? That 's what you do . No matter what anybody says . Or thinks . Or what it does And what happens now ?
ALI: I fight George . I did n't come this far to quit .
BELINDA: Neither of us did .
BINGHAM: Belinda ?
LIEUTENANT NSAKALA: Countdown ! Countdown !
RUDY: Countdown is on , bro . Five minutes .
ALI: Thanks to Allah
LIEUTENANT NSAKALA: Four minutes !
ANGELO DUNDEE: Give us a moment . Alone . Hey . This is my religion !
ALI: Why ?
ANGELO DUNDEE: Where you at ?
ALI: Foreman ai n't no mummy . He 's knocked out eight out of eleven efore the end of the third round . He the most dangerous fighter I ever fought .
ANGELO DUNDEE: I 'd worry if I was hearin ' anything else .
ALI: And I ca n't WAIT !
LIEUTENANT NSAKALA: Three minutes !
ANGELO DUNDEE: Dance . That 's the most important
LIEUTENANT NSAKALA: Two minutes !
BUNDINI: The prophet 's come back to claim his own ! Get the pretender off that throne !
LIEUTENANT NSAKALA: One minute !
THE PEOPLE: Ali ! Ali ! Boma ye , Ali ! Ali ! Boma ye !
ANGELO DUNDEE: George is playing prima donna . He wants to make you wait .
CROWD: Foreman ! Foreman ! Foreman ! Foreman !
CLAYTON: Now , both of you know the rules . When I step back , I want a good , clean break . No hitting below the belt , no kidney punches , no
ALI: Motherfucker , you 'bout to discove you ai n't nothin ' .
CLAYTON: Ali , be quiet !
ALI: You been hearin ' about me for years . All your life you been hearin ' about Muhammad Ali . Now you got ta face me .
CLAYTON: Ali , I 'll disqualify you . Now , I want a good , clean , sportsman fight
ALI: You never should have come to Africa .
CLAYTON: All right ! ! Now go to your corners and come out fighting when you hear the bell , and may the best manwin
ALI: Legs heavyair 's heavylike sand
ANGELO DUNDEE: keep moving . Do n't let him put you into the corner . Stay off the ope !
ALI: That all you got ? That it ?
ANGELO DUNDEE: Get off the ropes ! Get off the opes ! Get off the ropes ! Dance !
ALI: There is nothin ' Nothin ' ! I can not take .
BUNDINI: Dance , dance !
DUNDEE: Get off the ropes ! What are you doin ' ? !
ALI: Here come George 's `` murder '' round .
ALI: been here before .
ANGELO DUNDEE: Get off the goddamn ropes ! !
ALI: Took somethin ' away from him , Angie , that round
BUNDINI: You got ta move ! Stick and MOVE !
ALI: They do n't know what 's happenin ' .
ALI: Eight more rounds You runnin ' outta gas ?
ALI: Now
BRADLEY: Ce soir , le Zaire a t le sujet central dans le tous les centres europens . Flicitations , Monsieu le Prsident pour la vie .
MOBUTU: Yes .
LONDON BANKER: What 's on the menu ?
ALI: I do n't know what 's gon na happen . Maan , everything is crazy .
BELINDA: I did n't come this far to quit .
ALI: You think you got a chance , chump ? Now you in trouble .
ROBY: Oh God am I cold
BROUSSARD: Is that you , Roby ?
ROBY: I feel like shit
BROUSSARD: Yeah , it 's you all right .
FAUST: Ohh I must be alive , I feel dead .
BROUSSARD: You look dead .
MELKONIS: The vampires rise from their graves . This draws a few woozy chuckles .
BROUSSARD: We made it !
HUNTER: Is it over ?
STANDARD: It 's over , Hunter .
HUNTER: Boy , that 's terrific .
STANDARD: Well , how does it feel to be rich men ?
FAUST: Cold ! This draws a LAUGH .
STANDARD: Okay ! Everybody topside ! Let 's get our pants on and get to our posts ! The men begin to swing out of the freezers .
MELKONIS: Somebody get the cat . Roby picks a limp cat out of a freezer . u > INTERIOR - CONTROL ROOM < /u
BROUSSARD: I 'm going to buy a cattle ranch .
ROBY: Cattle ranch !
BROUSSARD: I 'm not kidding . You can get one if you have the credit . Look just like eal cows , too .
STANDARD: All right , tycoons , let 's stop spending our credit and start worrying about the job at hand .
ROBY: Right . Fire up all systems .
STANDARD: Sandy , you want to give us some vision ?
MELKONIS: Feast your eyes .
BROUSSARD: Where 's Irth ?
STANDARD: Sandy , scan the whole sky .
ROBY: Where are we ?
STANDARD: Sandy , contact traffic control . Melkonis switches on his radio unit .
MELKONIS: This is deep space commercial vessel SNARK , registration number E180246 , calling Antarctica air traffic control . Do you read me ? Over . There is only the HISS OF STATIC .
BROUSSARD: I do n't recognize that constellation .
STANDARD: Dell , plot our location .
BROUSSARD: I got it . Oh boy .
STANDARD: Where the hell are we ?
BROUSSARD: Just short of Zeta II Reticuli . We have n't even reached the outer rim yet .
ROBY: What the hell ? Standard picks up a microphone .
STANDARD: This is Chaz speaking . Sorry , but we are not home . Our present location seems to be only halfway to Irth . Remain at your posts and stand by . That is all .
ROBY: Chaz , I 've got something here on my security alert . A high priority from the computer
STANDARD: Let 's hear it .
ROBY: Computer , you have signalled a priority three message . What is the message ?
COMPUTER: I have interrupted the course of the voyage .
ROBY: What ? Why ?
COMPUTER: I am programmed to do so if certain conditions arise .
STANDARD: Computer , this is Captain Standard . What conditions are you talking about ?
COMPUTER: I have intercepted a transmission of unknown origin .
STANDARD: A transmission ?
COMPUTER: A voice transmission .
MELKONIS: Out here ? The men exchange glances .
COMPUTER: I have recorded the transmission .
STANDARD: Play it for us , please .
COMPUTER: Unknown .
ROBY: Unknown ! What do you mean ?
COMPUTER: It is none of the 678 dialects spoken by technological man .
STANDARD: Just hold it , hold it ! Computer have you attempted to analyze the transmission ?
COMPUTER: Yes . There are two points of salient interest . Number one it is highly systematized , indicating intelligent origin . Number two certain sounds are inconsistent with the human palate .
ROBY: Oh my God .
STANDARD: Well , it 's finally happened .
MELKONIS: First contact
STANDARD: Sandy , can you home in on that beam ?
MELKONIS: What 's the frequency ?
STANDARD: Computer , what 's the frequency of the transmission ?
COMPUTER: 65330 dash 99 . Melkonis punches buttons .
MELKONIS: I 've got it . It 's coming from ascension 6 minutes 32 seconds , declination -39 degrees 2 seconds .
STANDARD: Dell show me that on a screen .
BROUSSARD: I 'll give it to you on number four .
STANDARD: Can you get it a little closer ?
BROUSSARD: That 's what I 'm going to do .
MELKONIS: It 's tiny !
STANDARD: Any rotation ?
BROUSSARD: Yeah . Two hours .
STANDARD: Gravity ?
BROUSSARD: Point eight six . We can walk on it . Standard rises .
STANDARD: Martin , get the others up to the lounge . u > INTERIOR - MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM < /u
MELKONIS: If it 's an S.O.S. , we 're morally obligated to investigate .
BROUSSARD: Right .
HUNTER: I do n't know . Seems to me we came on this trip to make some credit , not to go off on some kind of side trip .
BROUSSARD: Forget the credit ; what we have here is a chance to be the first men to contact a nonhuman intelligence .
ROBY: If there is some kind of alien intelligence down on that planetoid , it 'd be a serious mistake for us to lunder in unequipped .
BROUSSARD: Hell , we 're equipped
ROBY: Hell , no ! We do n't know what 's down there on that piece of rock ! It might be dangerous ! What we should do is get on the radio to the exploration authorities and let them deal with it .
STANDARD: Except it will take 75 years to get a reply back . Do n't forget how fa we are from the Colonies , Martin .
BROUSSARD: There are no commercial lanes out here . Face it , we 're out of range .
MELKONIS: Men have waited centuries to contact another form of intelligent life in the universe . This is an opportunity which may never come again .
ROBY: Look
STANDARD: You 're overruled , Martin . Gentlemen let 's go . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
BROUSSARD: I 'll see what I can do .
STANDARD: It 's out of focus .
ROBY: No that 's atmosphere . Cloud layer .
MELKONIS: My God , it 's stormy for a piece of ock that size !
ROBY: Just a second . Those are n't water vapor clouds ; they have no moisture content .
STANDARD: Put ship in atmospheric mode . u > EXTERIOR - `` SNARK '' - OUTER SPACE < /u
BROUSSARD: Activated . Vertical drop checked . Correcting course . On tangential course now , orbiting . Crossing the terminator . Entering night side . u > EXTERIOR - `` SNARK '' - IN ORBIT < /u
ROBY: Atmospheric turbulence . Dust storm .
STANDARD: Turn on navigation lights . u > EXTERIOR - `` SNARK '' < /u
BROUSSARD: Approaching point of origin . Closing at 20 kilometers , 15 and slowing . Ten . Five . Gentlemen , we are directly above the source of the transmission .
STANDARD: What 's the terrain down there ?
BROUSSARD: Well , line of sight is impossible due to dust . Radar gives me noise . Sonar gives me noise . Infrared noise . Let 's try ultraviolet . There . Flat . It 's totally flat . A plain .
STANDARD: Is it solid ?
BROUSSARD: It 's basalt . Rock .
STANDARD: Then take her down .
BROUSSARD: Drop begins now ! Fifteen kilometers and dropping twelve ten eight and slowing . Five . Three . Two . One kilometer and slowing . Lock tractor beams .
ROBY: Locked .
BROUSSARD: Kill drive engines . The engines fall silent .
ROBY: Engines off .
BROUSSARD: Nine hundred meters and dropping . 800 . 700 . Hang on gentlemen . u > EXTERIOR - SURFACE OF PLANET - NIGHT < /u
STANDARD: What the hell happened ?
ROBY: Engine room , what happened ?
FAUST: Just a minute , hold it , I 'm checking .
ROBY: Has the hull been breached ?
BROUSSARD: Uh No , I do n't see anything . We 've still got pressure . There is a BEEP from the communicator . Then
FAUST: Martin , this is Jay . The intakes are clogged with dust . We overheated and urned out a whole cell .
STANDARD: Damn it ! How long to fix ?
ROBY: How long to fix ?
FAUST: Hard to say .
ROBY: Well , get started .
FAUST: Right . Talk to you .
STANDARD: Let 's take a look outside . Turn the screens back on .
BROUSSARD: Ca n't see a blessed thing . u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - NIGHT < /u
STANDARD: Kick on the floods . u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - NIGHT < /u
ROBY: Not much help . Standard stares at the dark screens .
STANDARD: Well , we ca n't go anywhere in this darkness . How long till dawn ?
MELKONIS: Well this rock rotates every two hours . The sun should be coming up in about 20 minutes .
BROUSSARD: Good ! Maybe we 'll be able to see something then .
ROBY: Or something will be able to see us . They all look at him .
BROUSSARD: Not sitting on our butts in here , that 's for sure .
STANDARD: Just settle down . Sandy , you get any esponse yet ?
MELKONIS: Sorry . Nothing but that same damn transmission , every 32 seconds . I 've tried every frequency on the spectrum .
BROUSSARD: Are we just going to sit around and wait for an invitation ?
ROBY: Hello , Faust !
FAUST: Yeah !
ROBY: How 's it coming on the engines ? u > INTERIOR - ENGINE ROOM < /u
FAUST: I never saw anything as fine as this dust these cells are all pitted on a microscopic level . I have to polish these things smooth again , so it 's going to take a while . Okay ? u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
ROBY: Yeah , okay .
STANDARD: Sandy how far are we from the source of the transmission ?
MELKONIS: Source of transmission is to the northeast about 300 meters .
ROBY: Close
BROUSSARD: Close enough to walk to !
STANDARD: Martin , would you run me an atmospheric ?
ROBY: 10 % argon , 85 % nitrogen , 5 % neon and some trace elements .
STANDARD: Nontoxic but unbreathable . Pressure ?
ROBY: Ten to the fourth dynes per square centimeter .
STANDARD: Good ! Moisture content ?
ROBY: Zero . Dry as a bone .
STANDARD: Any microorganisms ?
ROBY: Not a one . It 's dead .
STANDARD: Anything else ?
ROBY: Yeah , rock particles . Dust .
STANDARD: Well , we wo n't need pressure suits , ut breathing masks are called for . Sandy can you rig up some kind of portable unit that we can use to follow that transmission to its source ?
MELKONIS: No problem .
BROUSSARD: I volunteer for the exploration party .
STANDARD: I heard you . You want to break out the side arms ? u > INTERIOR - MAIN ARM LOCK - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Receiving .
MELKONIS: Receiving .
STANDARD: All right . Now just remember keep away from those weapons unless I say otherwise . Martin , do you read me ? u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
ROBY: Read you , Chaz . u > INTERIOR - MAIN AIR LOCK - DAY < /u
STANDARD: Open the outer door .
MELKONIS: That way .
STANDARD: You lead .
ROBY: Okay , Chaz , I hear you . I 've got you on my board .
STANDARD: Good . I 'm getting you clear too . Let 's just keep the line open . u > EXTERIOR - PLANETOID - DAY < /u
MELKONIS: My signal 's fading . He studies the direction finder . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
HUNTER: What 's happening ?
ROBY: Hell !
MELKONIS: It 's close , real close .
STANDARD: How far ?
MELKONIS: We should be almost on top of it . I just ca n't quite
STANDARD: Martin , uh , we 've found it .
ROBY: Found what ?
STANDARD: It appears to be some sort of spacecraft . We 're going to approach it . They start toward the alien ship . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Looks like a derelict .
STANDARD: Martin , we 're going in . I 'm going to hold the conversation to a minimum from here on . u > INTERIOR - ALIEN SHIP - DAY < /u
MELKONIS: Air lock ?
STANDARD: Who knows ?
BROUSSARD: Let 's try and find the control room .
MELKONIS: Look at these holes . This place looks like Swiss cheese .
BROUSSARD: This hole goes up several decks looks like somebody was firing a military disintegrator in here . They all peer up the hole into darkness .
STANDARD: Climbing gear .
BROUSSARD: I 'll go first .
STANDARD: No , you 'll follow me .
MELKONIS: Holy Christ
STANDARD: Look at this They approach .
MELKONIS: LOOK OUT , IT MOVED ! Standard knocks his hand down .
STANDARD: Keep away from that gun !
BROUSSARD: But functioning . Melkonis looks down at his direction finder .
MELKONIS: That 's where the transmission is coming from .
BROUSSARD: A recording . A damned automatic ecording . u > EXTERIOR - PLANETOID - SUNSET < /u
STANDARD: This is the control room
HUNTER: Phenomenal . Staggering .
BROUSSARD: We 've got to go back and take a lot more pictures , holograph u > everything .
MELKONIS: And bring back as much physical evidence as possible , too . The rest of the skeleton . Some of the machinery . Written records , if there are any .
STANDARD: Martin ?
ROBY: I agree . This is the single most important discovery in history .
STANDARD: But ?
ROBY: What killed it ?
BROUSSARD: Hell , that thing 's been dead fo years . Maybe hundreds of years . The whole planet 's dead .
FAUST: The way I figure it , they landed here for repairs or something , then they could n't take off again . Maybe the dust ruined their engines . They set up an S.O.S . beacon , but nobody came . So they died .
ROBY: He died .
FAUST: What ?
ROBY: Not they he
STANDARD: Jay how 's it coming on the epairs ?
FAUST: Well I 'm going to have to blow the engines out
STANDARD: And when will you be ready to do that ?
FAUST: Oh I 'm not near ready yet .
STANDARD: Then why the hell are you sitting around here ?
FAUST: Right .
MELKONIS: And there sits man 's first contact with intelligent life in the universe . u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - NIGHT < /u
FAUST: You ready up there ? u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - NIGHT < /u
BROUSSARD: Sure , we 're ready . u > INTERIOR - ENGINE ROOM < /u
FAUST: Okay . I 'm going to start the extraction procedure now . He pauses to wipe his brow . u > INTERIOR - MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM < /u
STANDARD: Alas , poor Yorick .
ROBY: I do n't even know what I 'm looking for .
STANDARD: Still worried ?
ROBY: Oh well you know me .
STANDARD: I 've always respected your opinion , Martin . If something worries you , it worries me .
ROBY: What would you say that was supposed to mean ?
STANDARD: Well it 's obviously intentional some kind of attempt at communication maybe it 's a symbol that means something to them
ROBY: But why draw it on the wall ?
STANDARD: Tell you what , Martin . As soon as the engine 's fixed
BROUSSARD: Chaz , this is Dell . Can you come topside for a minute ?
STANDARD: What 's up ?
BROUSSARD: Well , the sun just came up again , and it seems the wind 's died down . It 's as clear as a bell outside . There 's something I think you ought to see .
STANDARD: I 'm on my way . He and Roby head for the door . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Take a look . u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - DAY < /u
STANDARD: What is it , I ca n't BLIP ! Broussard enlarges the image .
MELKONIS: That creature sure must have considered it important using his last strength to draw it
BROUSSARD: Maybe they built it .
FAUST: As what ?
BROUSSARD: A marker for buried instrumentation ?
HUNTER: Or a mass grave .
BROUSSARD: Maybe the rest of the crew is in there in some kind of suspended animation , waiting to be rescued .
MELKONIS: It was n't necessarily built by them .
ROBY: Here comes the dust again . u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - DAY < /u
STANDARD: Well , does anyone else agree with Martin that we should not explore it ?
ROBY: Now what 's wrong ?
HUNTER: I 've completely lost their signal .
ROBY: Can you get them back ?
HUNTER: I 'm trying . u > EXTERIOR - BASE OF PYRAMID - DAY < /u
MELKONIS: This looks ancient .
STANDARD: Ca n't tell these weathe conditions could erode anything , fast . They walk around the base .
BROUSSARD: There 's no entrance .
MELKONIS: Maybe the entrance is buried . Could e under our feet .
STANDARD: Maybe there is no entrance ; the thing may be solid . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
ROBY: Well , there ought to be some way we can get through to them The INTERCOM BEEPS . Faust 's voice is heard .
FAUST: Sorry to interrupt , but I 'm gon na charge up the engines for a minute , okay ?
ROBY: Yeah , okay . Go ahead .
COMPUTER: I have a temporary sequence on the monitor
ROBY: Hold it , I ca n't hear a damn thing !
HUNTER: What ? What was that ?
ROBY: The computer just translated the goddamn message . It 's not an S.O.S . It was a warning . u > EXTERIOR - BASE OF PYRAMID - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Maybe we can get in by the top .
STANDARD: You want to try ?
BROUSSARD: Sure .
STANDARD: Can we come up ?
BROUSSARD: No , it 's too small , only room enough for one person .
STANDARD: Can you see anything in the hole ? u > EXTERIOR - TOP OF PYRAMID - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: I can see partway down . It just goes down like a stovepipe . Smooth walls . I ca n't see the bottom light wo n't reach . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u
FAUST: Yes ? What is it ?
ROBY: Jay , we 've got a problem . I was wondering if there was any way you could shortcut the repairs and give us immediate takeoff capability .
FAUST: Why , what 's wrong ?
ROBY: The computer 's translated the alien signal , and it 's kind of alarming .
FAUST: What do you mean ?
ROBY: It could n't translate the whole thing , only three phrases . I 'll just ead it to you the way I got it
STANDARD: Dell , you want to come down , we can figure out where to go from here .
BROUSSARD: No , I want to go in . u > EXTERIOR - BASE OF PYRAMID - DAY < /u Standard and Melkonis exchange a glance .
STANDARD: Okay , Dell , but just for a preliminary look-around . Do n't unhook yourself from your cable . And e out in less than ten minutes . u > EXTERIOR - TOP OF PYRAMID - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Right .
STANDARD: Take care .
BROUSSARD: It 's noticeably warmer in here . Warm air rising from below .
STANDARD: Are you okay in there ?
BROUSSARD: Yeah , I 'm okay . Have n't hit bottom yet . Definitely a column of warm ai ising ; it keeps the shaft clear of dust .
STANDARD: What was that Dell , I lost you , do you read me ?
BROUSSARD: Yeah , but this is hard work . Ca n't talk now .
STANDARD: What 'd he say ?
MELKONIS: I could n't make it out too much interference . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - DAY < /u Roby and Hunter .
HUNTER: I 'm getting nowhere . The whole area around the pyramid is dead to transmission . I think we should go after them .
ROBY: No .
HUNTER: What do you mean , no ?
ROBY: We 're not going anywhere .
HUNTER: But they do n't know about the translation ! They could be in dange ight now .
ROBY: We ca n't spare the personnel . We 've got minimum takeoff capability right now . That 's why Chaz left us on oard .
HUNTER: Why , you chickenshit bastard
ROBY: Just can that crap ! I 'm in command here till Chaz returns ! And nobody 's leaving this ship ! u > INTERIOR - PYRAMID - DAY < /u
BROUSSARD: Tunnel 's gone cave or something elow me feels like the tropics in here ; air is warm and humid high oxygen content , no dust , it 's completely breathable
STANDARD: If we do n't hear from him soon , I think we better go in after him .
MELKONIS: Sun will be down in a minute . u > INTERIOR - TOMB - LATE AFTERNOON < /u
BROUSSARD: I do n't know if you can hear me , but the place is full of large bottles or jars , just like the one we found on the other ship except these are all sealed . Also they 're soft to the touch . He peers more closely at the leathery object .
STANDARD: Let 's go .
MELKONIS: It 'll yank him right off his feet if he 's not expecting it . The line could get tangled in something .
STANDARD: But what can we do ? He 's out of adio contact .
MELKONIS: Maybe we should just wait a few more minutes .
STANDARD: No , I told him to be out in ten minutes . It 's been much longer . Let 's get him out of there .
MELKONIS: Is it still coming up , or is it hooked on something ?
STANDARD: No , it 's coming .
MELKONIS: Can you see anything ? Standard shines his light down into the hole .
STANDARD: No , I ca n't see far enough . The line 's moving , though .
MELKONIS: What is it ?
STANDARD: Do n't touch him , watch it !
MELKONIS: Oh God , oh God no .
STANDARD: Help me I 'm going to try to get it off .
MELKONIS: What is it ?
STANDARD: How the hell should I know ? Come on , give me a hand , let 's get him out of there !
HUNTER: I 've got 'em ! They 're back on my screens !
ROBY: How many ?
HUNTER: Three blips ! They 're coming this way ! Roby grabs a microphone .
ROBY: Hey , can you guys hear me ?
STANDARD: Yeah , we hear you ! We 're coming ack !
ROBY: Thank Christ ! We lost you ! Listen , there 's been a new development
STANDARD: Ca n't talk now ; Broussard 's injured . We 'll need some help getting him into the ship .
ROBY: Oh no .
HUNTER: Jay , this is Cleave ! Meet me at the main air lock ! Hunter dashes from the room .
ROBY: Right .
FAUST: What the hell 's going on ?
HUNTER: Do n't know Broussard got hurt somehow .
FAUST: Hurt ! How ?
HUNTER: Do n't know maybe we 'll be real lucky and he just broke his neck . I knew we should n't of come down here . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE - NIGHT < /u
STANDARD: Martin , are you there ?
ROBY: Here , Chaz .
STANDARD: We 're coming up now , open the oute lock door .
ROBY: Chaz what happened to Broussard ?
STANDARD: It 's some kind of organism , it 's attached itself to him . Let us in . Roby does not reply .
ROBY: Chaz , if it 's an organism , and we let it in , the ship will be infected .
STANDARD: We ca n't leave him out here , open the door .
ROBY: Chaz , listen to me we 've broken every rule of quarantine . If we ing an organism on board , we wo n't have a single layer of defense left .
STANDARD: Martin , this is an order ! Open the door !
HUNTER: Outer door 's open .
STANDARD: You men stay clear , there 's a parasite on him . Hunter and Faust RECOIL .
HUNTER: Oh God oh
FAUST: Is it alive ?
STANDARD: I do n't know but do n't touch it . Give us a hand here , let 's get him up to the Autodoc .
HUNTER: That thing , God almighty , did n't you try to get it off him ?
STANDARD: It would n't come . Standard yanks off his gloves .
FAUST: Here , let me try .
STANDARD: Stop it , you 're tearing his face .
MELKONIS: It 's not coming off not without his whole face coming off too .
STANDARD: Let 's let the machine work on him .
HUNTER: Hey now , what is this ?
STANDARD: Ask him .
ROBY: I understand why you did that .
STANDARD: Good .
MELKONIS: He would n't open the lock ; he was going to leave us out there .
HUNTER: Yeah well , maybe he should have . I mean , you brought the goddamn thing in here . Maybe you deserve to get slapped .
FAUST: Excuse me , I 've got work to do . Faust exits .
HUNTER: I keep my mouth pretty much shut , ut I do n't like hitting .
ROBY: I guess I had it coming . Let 's call it settled .
STANDARD: He went into the pyramid alone . We lost radio contact with him . When we pulled him out , it was on his face . It wo n't come off , not without injuring him .
HUNTER: Where did it come from ?
MELKONIS: He 's the only one that knows that .
HUNTER: How does he breathe ? They study the monitors .
MELKONIS: Blood 's thoroughly oxygenated .
HUNTER: Yeah , but how ? His nose and mouth are blocked .
STANDARD: Let 's look inside his head .
ROBY: Look at that .
HUNTER: What is it I ca n't tell anything
ROBY: It 's some kind of organ it 's inserted some kind of tube o something down his throat .
HUNTER: Oh God Hunter bends over and RETCHES .
ROBY: I think that 's how it 's getting oxygen to him .
HUNTER: It does n't make any sense . It paralyzes him puts him into a coma then keeps him alive .
MELKONIS: We ca n't expect to understand a life form like this . We 're out of ou ack yard . Things are different here .
HUNTER: Well , ca n't we kill it ? I mean , we ca n't leave the damn thing on him .
MELKONIS: We do n't know what might happen if we tried to kill it . At least right now it 's keeping him alive .
HUNTER: How about cutting it off ? We ca n't pull it loose , but we can cut off everything but the bottom layer , where it 's stuck to his face .
STANDARD: You 're right we ca n't stand here and do nothing .
MELKONIS: God , that smoke 's poisonous !
HUNTER: It 's eating a hole in the floor !
STANDARD: That stuff 's eating right through the metal ! It 's going to eat through the decks and right out through the hull !
MELKONIS: Jesus , what can we put under it ?
STANDARD: There . Should be coming through about there .
HUNTER: Careful , do n't get under it ! u > INTERIOR - LEVEL ABOVE < /u
MELKONIS: Christ , that stinks .
ROBY: Seems to have stopped penetrating . Hunter comes charging up the steps .
HUNTER: What 's happening up here ?
ROBY: I think it 's fizzled out .
MELKONIS: I never saw anything like that in my life except molecular acid .
HUNTER: But this thing uses it for blood .
MELKONIS: Hell of a defense mechanism . You do n't dare kill it . Standard comes up the stairs .
STANDARD: It 's stopped ?
MELKONIS: Yes , thank heaven .
STANDARD: We 're just plain lucky . That could have gone right through the hull taken weeks to patch it .
MELKONIS: Reminded me of when I was a kid and the roof leaked everybody running for the pots and pans .
ROBY: My God , what about Broussard ? They turn and run up the stairs . u > INTERIOR - INFIRMARY < /u
STANDARD: No , thank God just missed him .
MELKONIS: Is it still dripping ?
STANDARD: It appears to have healed itself .
HUNTER: It makes me sick to see him like that .
MELKONIS: Is n't there some way we can get it off him ?
STANDARD: I do n't see how . But let 's do what we can for him .
ROBY: Look there , what 's that stain on his lungs ?
MELKONIS: It appears to be a heavy fluid of some sort it blocks the X-rays
ROBY: That tube must be depositing it in him .
MELKONIS: Could be some kind of venom , o poison
HUNTER: This is horrible .
ROBY: Hey ! what about the film ?
STANDARD: What film ?
ROBY: Broussard had film in his datastick , did n't he ? We can see what happened to him . u > INTERIOR - MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM < /u
HUNTER: That must have been when he got it .
ROBY: The same thing must 've happened to the creatures on the other ship except they took one of those jars on board , and opened it there .
MELKONIS: At first I thought they were jars too , or artifacts anyway . But they 're not . They 're eggs , or spore casings . Let 's go back to the heiroglyphics .
STANDARD: I personally ca n't make any sense out of it
MELKONIS: It 's a crude symbolic language looks primitive .
HUNTER: You ca n't tell that kind of stuff could represent printed circuits
STANDARD: That sounds a little fanciful
MELKONIS: Primitive pictorial languages are ased on common objects in the environment , and this can be used as a starting point for translation
ROBY: What common objects ?
HUNTER: Listen , had n't somebody better check on Broussard ?
STANDARD: I 'll do it . The rest of you continue .
HUNTER: I 'll come with you . u > INTERIOR - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE INFIRMARY < /u Standard and Hunter come down the passageway .
STANDARD: You know , it 's fantastic the human race has gone this long without ever encountering anothe advanced life form , and now we run into a veritable zoo .
HUNTER: What do you mean ?
STANDARD: Well , those things out there are n't the same , you know the spaceship and the pyramid . They 're from different cultures and different aces . That ship just landed here crashed like we did . The pyramid and the thing from it are indigenous .
HUNTER: How could anything be indigenous to this asteroid ? It 's dead .
STANDARD: Maybe it was n't always dead . They arrive at the infirmary . u > INTERIOR - INFIRMARY < /u
HUNTER: It 's gone .
STANDARD: The door was closed . It must still e in here .
HUNTER: Well , what the hell good can we do in here ? We ca n't grab it it might jump on us
STANDARD: Maybe we can catch it .
ROBY: Is that its mouth ?
MELKONIS: More likely that organ the tube- like thing fits up in there .
ROBY: Ugh .
STANDARD: Quick it 's decomposing gim me something to grab it with ! It begins to SMOKE AND BUBBLE .
ROBY: For Chrissake , open the main lock ! u > INTERIOR - AIR LOCK - DAY < /u
HUNTER: Yes ?
STANDARD: How 's Broussard ?
HUNTER: He 's running a fever .
STANDARD: Still unconscious ?
HUNTER: Yes .
STANDARD: Can you do anything for him ?
HUNTER: The machine will bring his temperature down . His vital functions are strong .
STANDARD: Good . He switches off the intercom .
MELKONIS: These day and night cycles are totally disorienting . I feel like we 've been here for days , but it 's only been how long ?
ROBY: About four hours .
STANDARD: I 'm sorry to say it looks like you were right in the first place , Martin . We never should have landed here .
ROBY: Look , I 'm not trying to ru anybody 's nose in anything . The important thing is just to get away from here as fast as possible .
STANDARD: I ca n't lean on Faust any harder he 's been working non-stop on the engines .
ROBY: If we knew exactly what happened to the beings on the other ship
MELKONIS: We do know that .
ROBY: Yeah ?
MELKONIS: They never made it off the planet . The parasites won . This brings a CHILLY SILENCE .
ROBY: Where did the parasites come from ?
STANDARD: They seem native to the planet . It 's got an atmosphere and a dense gravity . It 's dead now , but once it must have been fertile .
MELKONIS: No . It 's just too small to support fauna as big as the parasites . If there were a native ecology , it would have to be microscopic .
ROBY: Could n't the pyramid have been built here by space travellers ?
STANDARD: Too primitive . It 's a pre- technological construction . That slab was engineered by an Iron-Age culture at best .
MELKONIS: They 're from a dead civilization ; they 're spores from a tomb . God knows how long they 've been here .
ROBY: I think we better take another look at those heiroglyphs .
FAUST: Hey , guess what ?
STANDARD: What ?
FAUST: The engines are fixed . u > EXTERIOR - PLANETOID - DAY < /u
STANDARD: Switch on tractor beams .
ROBY: Up one kilometer , Jay . u > EXTERIOR - PLANETOID - DAY < /u
STANDARD: Switch on lifter quads .
ROBY: Engaged .
STANDARD: Let 's take her into an escape orbit . The men get busy with switches .
ROBY: I 'm altering our vector now ; should give us an easy escape velocity
FAUST: This dust is getting clogged in the intakes again !
STANDARD: Just hold us together till we 're in space , that 's all ! The pitch of the engines changes , deepens . u > EXTERIOR - SKY - DAY < /u
ROBY: We made it ! Damn , we made it !
STANDARD: You bet we made it . Martin , set course for Irth and accelerate us into stardrive .
ROBY: With great pleasure . Roby begins to punch buttons .
MELKONIS: I feel like an escapee from Hell .
ROBY: That 's the part that always makes me feel like I 'm gon na puke when we accelerate into light speed .
STANDARD: Quit complaining ; we 're in space . They rise and head out of the room . u > INTERIOR - CORRIDOR < /u As they walk along .
ROBY: We 'll have to go into quarantine , maybe for quite a while .
STANDARD: That 's okay , he can remain in hypersleep until they 're ready to treat him . They enter the infirmary . u > INTERIOR - INFIRMARY < /u
BROUSSARD: Mouth 's so dry can I have some water
STANDARD: How do you feel , Dell ?
BROUSSARD: Wretched . What happened to me ?
STANDARD: Do n't you remember ?
BROUSSARD: Do n't remember nothing . Ca n't hardly emember my name .
ROBY: Are you in pain ?
BROUSSARD: Not exactly , just feel like somebody 's been beating me with ubber hoses for about six years .
STANDARD: Hell , you 're in great shape , you 've got your sense of humor back !
BROUSSARD: God I 'm hungry .
ROBY: Dell , what 's the last thing you can emember ?
BROUSSARD: I do n't know
ROBY: Do you remember the pyramid ?
BROUSSARD: No . Just some horrible dreams about smothering . Where are we ?
STANDARD: We 're going home . We 're in hyperspace .
MELKONIS: We 're going into the freezers now .
BROUSSARD: I 'm really starving ; can we get some food before we go into the freezers ?
STANDARD: I think that 's a pretty reasonable equest . u > INTERIOR - MULTI-PURPOSE ROOM < /u
HUNTER: Boy do I feel a lot better . It 's a straight shot back to the Colonies , and then we can start taking bids on the paydirt . Any bets on the top id ?
FAUST: Well , we should at least be able to each buy our own planet . They all CHUCKLE .
MELKONIS: I 'm going to write a book about this expedition . I 'm going to call it `` The Snark Log . ''
STANDARD: The commander normally has first publication rights .
MELKONIS: Maybe we could write it together .
ROBY: First thing I 'm going to do when we get back is eat some biological food .
MELKONIS: What 's the matter , you do n't like this stuff ?
ROBY: Tastes like something you 'd feed a chicken to make it lay more eggs .
STANDARD: Oh it 's okay . I 've had better cag than this , but I 've had worse too , if you know what I mean .
FAUST: I kind of like it .
ROBY: You like this shit ?
FAUST: It grows on you .
ROBY: You know what they make this stuff out of ?
FAUST: Yes , I know what they make it out of , so what ? It 's food now . You 're < /u eating it .
ROBY: I did n't say it was bad for you , it 's just kind of sickening , that 's all .
HUNTER: Do we have to talk about this kind of crap at the dinner table ?
STANDARD: What 's wrong ?
BROUSSARD: I do n't know I 'm getting these u > CRAMPS !
STANDARD: Breathe deeply .
BROUSSARD: u > OH GOD IT HURTS SO BAD !
ROBY: What Dell what ?
BROUSSARD: OhmygooaaAAAHHHHH ! ! !
HUNTER: Oh , no . Oh , no .
FAUST: What was that ? What the Christ was that ?
MELKONIS: It was growing in him the whole time and he did n't even know it !
ROBY: That thing used him for an incubator ! u > EXTERIOR - SHIP - OUTER SPACE < /u
MELKONIS: We ca n't go into hypersleep with that thing running around loose .
HUNTER: We 'd be sitting ducks in the freezers .
ROBY: But we ca n't kill it . If we kill it , it will spill all its body acids ight through our hull and out into space .
FAUST: Shit
STANDARD: We 'll have to catch it and eject it from the ship .
MELKONIS: Well , I kind of hate to point it out , but all our supplies are based on us spending a strictly limited amount of time out of suspended animation and as you know , we used up most of that time in harvesting .
STANDARD: We 've got about a week left , right ?
HUNTER: And then we run out of food and oxygen .
FAUST: The water will still recycle .
ROBY: We wo n't need it then .
STANDARD: All right , so that 's what we 've got . A week . It 's plenty of time .
ROBY: But if we have n't caught it in a week , then we have to go into the freezers anyway . They enter the bridge . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
STANDARD: So does anybody have any suggestions ?
FAUST: We could put on our pressure suits and blow all the air out of the ship . That would kill it .
STANDARD: No , we ca n't afford to lose that much oxygen . We 're going to have to flush it out .
MELKONIS: How ?
STANDARD: Room by room , corridor by corridor . No one likes this thought .
MELKONIS: And what do we do when we find it ?
STANDARD: We 'll have to trap it somehow . If we had a really strong piece of net , we could bag it .
FAUST: We could cut a section out of that metallite netting . It wo n't hold up to that acid , but aside from that it 's pretty strong .
ROBY: We have to avoid injuring it . What we really need is some electric animal prods .
HUNTER: I think I could cobble something together . A long metal rod with a attery in it . Give it a hell of a shock .
STANDARD: Good . Get on it . But first , I 'm issuing a standing order from this moment forth , every one of us will wear protective garments , including helmets . Let 's get down to the locker and change . They start for the exit . u > EXTERIOR - OUTER SPACE < /u
MELKONIS: I was thinking of a line from an old poem `` Water , water everywhere , but not a drop to drink . '' All that space out there , and we 're trapped in this ship .
STANDARD: That 's the one about the albatross , ight ?
MELKONIS: We ca n't even radio for help ; the carrier wave would n't reach its destination till long after we 'd died and turned to dust . We are utterly , absolutely alone . Can anybody really visualize such a scale of distances ? Halfway across Creation
STANDARD: We came out there , we 'll go back . A long time by the clock , but a short time to us .
MELKONIS: Time and space have no meaning out here . We 're living in Einsteinian equation .
STANDARD: I can see you 're putting your spare time to good use . Let me tell you something you keep staring at hyperspace for long enough , they 'll be peeling you off a wall . I 've seen it happen .
MELKONIS: We 're the new pioneers , Chaz . We even have our own special diseases .
STANDARD: Come on let 's go above and see how they 're coming with the gear . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
HUNTER: These have portable generators in them . They 're insulated down to here just be careful not to touch the end .
FAUST: Might even incinerate the damn thing .
STANDARD: I hope not .
HUNTER: Do n't worry , it wo n't damage it , it 'll just give it a little incentive .
STANDARD: How do we locate the creature ?
FAUST: With these . He picks up a small portable unit .
STANDARD: These will be very useful . At least we wo n't have to go digging around in closets with our bare hands . All ight , here 's the battle plan we 're going to break into two teams and start systematically covering the ship . Whoever finds it first , catches it in the net and ejects it from the nearest airlock . Clear ?
ROBY: Even simple .
STANDARD: For starters , let 's make sure the idge is safe .
FAUST: It 's clear .
STANDARD: All right Roby and Melkonis will go with Faust . Hunter and I will make up the second team . They start doling out the equipment .
FAUST: Nothing yet nothing we can move pretty fast as long as there 's nothing on the tracker . u > INTERIOR - OTHER CORRIDORS < /u
ROBY: Where 's it coming from ?
FAUST: Machine 's screwed up , I ca n't tell . Needle 's spinning all over the dial .
MELKONIS: Is it malfunctioning ?
FAUST: No , just confused . It 's coming from elow us . They all look down at their feet . u > INTERIOR - MAINTENANCE LEVEL < /u
ROBY: Okay .
FAUST: That way .
ROBY: What happened to the lights ?
FAUST: Bulbs burned out , nobody bothered to eplace 'em . They switch on the helmet lights .
ROBY: Oh , hold it !
MELKONIS: We 're making fools of ourselves ! Roby 's COMMUNICATOR BEEPS .
ROBY: Yes !
STANDARD: We 've got it up here ! It 's trapped ! Get up here fast !
ROBY: Where are you ?
STANDARD: Food-storage room !
ROBY: We 're coming ! They dash for the stairs . u > INTERIOR - CORRIDORS IN SHIP < /u
HUNTER: We saw it inside and slammed the door on it ! It 's in there now !
ROBY: What 's it doing , having a seizure ?
STANDARD: It started crashing around right after we locked it in .
ROBY: Now what ?
STANDARD: I guess we open the door and net it .
HUNTER: I hate to open that door .
STANDARD: It looks completely different from the first one it 's more like a worm with legs and tentacles .
FAUST: Well we better do something .
HUNTER: Maybe we do n't have to . It 's trapped in there . We could just leave it in there all the way back to Irth .
STANDARD: Do n't be an idiot .
FAUST: I know what we can do . We can pump poison gas into the room and kill it . Through those ventilator slots there .
ROBY: Hey , wait a minute ! That 's all ou food supplies in there ! We ca n't pump poison gas all over them !
STANDARD: Once we kill the thing we wo n't need the food any more we can go straight into hypersleep . Also , it sounds like that thing is already doing a pretty good job on ou supplies ; it may be fouling them all .
ROBY: You win .
FAUST: Somebody gim me a hand , I 'll get the stuff .
STANDARD: Get those masks on . They pull on gas masks .
ROBY: This stuff 's deadly I hope we know what we 're doing .
STANDARD: Go ahead , Jay .
ROBY: Now what ?
STANDARD: What do you think ? Now we go in .
FAUST: Looks like he helped himself .
HUNTER: God damn it .
ROBY: Where does that go ?
FAUST: All over the ship ; we 'll have to check the charts to know for sure .
STANDARD: Then let 's go and do it . They head for the door .
HUNTER: Have we got any food at all left in the ship ? They slam the door shut and seal it . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
FAUST: That one section of the ventilato shaft has only two outlets you notice ? The food storage room on one end
HUNTER: And the cooling unit on the other .
STANDARD: So it 's trapped in between now we have to drive it out .
FAUST: Poison gas
HUNTER: We ca n't pump poison gas down into the cooling unit ! It 'll flood the whole ship !
STANDARD: The only other thing I can think of is for somebody to crawl in there and flush it out .
ROBY: Are you crazy ?
STANDARD: The man would need protection , obviously as well as some way to drive the thing before him .
FAUST: How about a flamethrower ? That would n't poison the air .
MELKONIS: So one of us goes into the airshaft and drives the thing along
STANDARD: While the rest of us wait down in the cooling unit with the net .
HUNTER: Sounds like a rough one .
STANDARD: Got a better idea ? Hunter shrugs .
ROBY: So the only question left is who gets to crawl down the airshaft ?
STANDARD: Let 's be democratic .
FAUST: Well , uh good luck . I hope you wo n't need me , but if you do , I 'm here .
HUNTER: Right .
STANDARD: Yeah , we 're getting into position . u > INTERIOR - AIR SHAFT < /u
HUNTER: Okay , I 'm starting now .
ROBY: There . That 's where it 's got to come out .
STANDARD: Right now let 's keep it closed .
MELKONIS: I 've got Hunter and something else as well , in front of him .
STANDARD: Are they close ?
MELKONIS: They 're on the next level up .
STANDARD: Let 's get moving with this net .
MELKONIS: They 're getting pretty close now .
STANDARD: All right , then when it gets to the other side of the door , you sing out , then drop the door . Okay ?
MELKONIS: Okay .
STANDARD: And you and I will bag it , and then we 'll take it to the ventral ai lock , got it ?
ROBY: Uh-huh . u > INTERIOR - AIR SHAFT < /u
HUNTER: Hey , you guys . u > INTERIOR - CLIMATE CONTROL ROOM < /u
STANDARD: Yes ! u > INTERIOR - AIR SHAFT < /u
HUNTER: I do n't think this shaft goes on too much farther anyway it 's getting pretty hot in here u > INTERIOR - CLIMATE CONTROL ROOM < /u
STANDARD: Okay , our screens show you as being near to the opening . We 'll open it up , then we 'll cue you and you can start blasting . That 'll drive it ight out . You do n't have to go any farther . u > INTERIOR - AIR SHAFT < /u
HUNTER: Good . He readies the flamethrower . u > INTERIOR - CLIMATE CONTROL ROOM < /u
STANDARD: Okay , get ready .
HUNTER: What happened ? Where is it ?
STANDARD: How did it get so big ?
ROBY: By eating our food supplies .
HUNTER: Where 's Melkonis ? u > INTERIOR - FOOD STORAGE ROOM < /u Faust is still waiting .
FAUST: Hey , are you guys still there ? What 's going on ?
STANDARD: Meet us on the bridge . Be careful it 's huge now .
FAUST: Right .
HUNTER: You mean his body was still kicking when it ran off with him ?
ROBY: It was horrible horrible . Like a chicken . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
FAUST: What happened ? Where 's Sandy ?
ROBY: Dead .
FAUST: Dead !
ROBY: It 's monstrous it grew , like some horrible tapeworm . We were completely unprepared .
FAUST: It 's still in the ship ?
STANDARD: We 'd better seal off the lowe maintenance level ; at least trap it there .
HUNTER: At least it ca n't get up here now .
ROBY: Two down , four to go .
STANDARD: What 's that supposed to mean ?
ROBY: Nothing .
HUNTER: Listen , it sure did n't like this flamethrower .
STANDARD: That 's right we ca n't kill it on the ship , but we can at least keep it at bay and maybe drive it into the air lock .
HUNTER: Thing is , I 'm about out of fuel .
FAUST: There 's some more combustible fuel down in the storage lockers next to the lounge . I 'll go get it .
STANDARD: No , I do n't want us separated .
FAUST: You just sealed it off ; it ca n't get to that section .
ROBY: Do n't count on it .
HUNTER: We sure need this flamethrower .
STANDARD: All right but do not go below decks .
FAUST: Right .
STANDARD: And be right back . Faust exits .
ROBY: I think it 's time we took a hard look at those heiroglyphs .
STANDARD: Well yes there 's a pattern but it 's meaningless to me .
ROBY: I know it looks like a senseless jumble , but if you look closely , there are recognizable forms .
HUNTER: Recognizable ! In that ?
ROBY: In symbolic form very stylized ut if you stare at it , you can see some of the different creatures we 've been dealing with .
HUNTER: Well I suppose that star-shaped thing could be the parasite that got on Broussard . Is that what you mean ?
ROBY: And right next to it , that oval design with the markings it 's a dead ringer for the spore casings .
STANDARD: That next thing there six legs , tentacles that 's the thing we saw in the food locker .
ROBY: So the next step should be
HUNTER: The big one . And there it is .
ROBY: This is all the same creature . We 're seeing the different stages in its life-cycle .
STANDARD: Then that tomb must have been some kind of fertility temple where they stored their eggs , and maybe held mating rituals
HUNTER: And Broussard got caught in thei eproductive cycle .
ROBY: You will notice , though , that there are no more phases . Only four forms are shown . After that the pattern epeats .
STANDARD: Which presumably means
ROBY: More spores coming . u > INTERIOR - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE AIR LOCK < /u
FAUST: It 's in the lock blow the main lock . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
STANDARD: What ? u > INTERIOR - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE AIR LOCK < /u
FAUST: It 's in the main air lock . Blow the lock . u > INTERIOR - BRIDGE < /u
ROBY: How much oxygen did we lose ?
STANDARD: We 've got six hours left .
HUNTER: Oh my God .
STANDARD: Does anybody know what happened ?
ROBY: I saw it . Faust got himself jammed in the air lock door . His body held it open .
STANDARD: Can we get to him ?
ROBY: No , I had to seal off a whole section . We 'd lose too much of ou emaining air if we opened the connecting door . u > INTERIOR - AIR LOCK < /u
STANDARD: At least we 're rid of the damn monster . It must have been the first thing sucked out of the ship .
ROBY: No such luck . I saw it running down one of the corridors .
HUNTER: Oh no ! We ca n't fight this thing ! There 's only six hours of air left we 're dead men !
STANDARD: I do n't buy that . There 's still time to destroy it and get ourselves in the freezers .
HUNTER: How ?
STANDARD: It 's time for drastic remedies .
ROBY: It was time for that a couple days ago .
STANDARD: That kind of remark is pointless . Now come on I want to hear every suggestion you can come up with , no matter how wild .
HUNTER: We ca n't kill it on board . It 's huge now and must have tremendous amounts of that acid in its body .
ROBY: I 've got an idea , but you 're not going to like it .
STANDARD: Let 's hear it .
ROBY: Okay . First we shut down all the cooling systems on the stardrive engines .
STANDARD: That 'll blow the ship up .
ROBY: Right but it 'll take a few minutes for the engines to overheat and melt down the core . In the meantime , we get in the lifeboat and leave the ship .
HUNTER: Blow the ship up ?
ROBY: And the creature with it . We can make it back to Irth in the lifeboat .
STANDARD: But the lifeboat ca n't accelerate to light speed .
ROBY: Does n't matter we 're already at light speed . And when we get back to the Colonies , they 'll pick us up in the network .
HUNTER: What about all the minerals and elements in the cargo hold ? That 's the only reason we came out here . We 'd have to abandon them all . We 'd e broke .
ROBY: Our lives are more important . Anyway , we can take a small amount of the most valuable stuff with us on the lifeboat .
STANDARD: No , it wo n't work and I just ealized why . There 's only one hypersleep freezer on the lifeboat . Only one of us could survive .
ROBY: Yeah I forgot .
STANDARD: But the idea 's good , if we could just turn it around somehow . They think .
HUNTER: Good ! That 's good !
STANDARD: We can load the lifeboat up with explosives and trigger them emotely , once the lifeboat is in space .
ROBY: I think it 's going to be almost impossible to drive it up into the lifeboat .
HUNTER: We can use the flamethrower .
ROBY: It 's not going to work .
STANDARD: You ca n't say that ; I think it 's a good plan .
HUNTER: The flamethrower needs more fuel .
STANDARD: Right . We 've got a lot to accomplish . Let 's get moving . u > INTERIOR - MINING & CARGO BAY < /u
HUNTER: Which explosive should we use ?
STANDARD: I 'd suggest the N-13 sticks . They 're portable , and they can be radio detonated .
ROBY: You know , it 's funny this stuff we went to so much trouble to dig up this treasure , the paydirt it 'll make it back to Irth just fine even if we 're not with it .
STANDARD: Here , carry these .
ROBY: u > Hey watch it !
STANDARD: It 's stable ; it does n't hurt to drop it .
HUNTER: Hold it !
ROBY: So what do we do ? Do we ignore it and finish loading the explosives into the boat or do we flush it out now ?
STANDARD: Now . If we can get it into the boat , we wo n't have to blow it up we can just eject it into space .
ROBY: Oh Jesus
STANDARD: The ship 's gravitational attraction must have drawn him back .
HUNTER: Should we go outside and bring him in ?
STANDARD: No the risk is too great . Perhaps after we 've destroyed the thing .
HUNTER: This should do it .
ROBY: I should hope so ! And we 'd bette make sure it 's pretty far from the ship when we blow it .
STANDARD: It will be .
HUNTER: What we really need is some red meat in here for bait .
ROBY: Well , if we had some , I 'd eat it . I 'm starting to get hungry . By this time , they are exiting . u > INTERIOR - NOSE OF SHIP < /u
STANDARD: Well now we have to herd that thing up here .
HUNTER: Whoever 's doing the herding is gon na have their hands pretty full . I think somebody should stay by the lifeboat to slam the door on the thing once it 's inside , and to serve as as
ROBY: Is n't `` bait '' the word you used ?
HUNTER: Hey look , somebody has to have his hands free to lock the creature in the lifeboat !
STANDARD: Yes , and maybe launch the boat and low it too if the others are injured .
ROBY: Who gets the privilege ?
HUNTER: Just keep your finger off the button till she 's way away from the ship , that 's all .
ROBY: Is it armed ?
HUNTER: If you press the button right now , it will blow the whole nose of the ship off .
ROBY: Thanks for the thought .
STANDARD: All right , Martin , we 'll be in touch with you on the communicator .
ROBY: And you 'll let me know when you 've got it coming this way
STANDARD: And you stand aside while we drive it in , then shut the hatch , launch the boat , and
ROBY: Kablooey . Hunter 's face twitches nervously at this .
STANDARD: Come on ; we have n't much time , ai is a factor .
HUNTER: It 's coming from down there .
STANDARD: Let me go first ; you stay behind me .
HUNTER: The flamethrower !
STANDARD: I ca n't , the acid will pour out !
ROBY: Hello ? Standard ? Hunter ?
STANDARD: Kill me
ROBY: What did it do to you ?
STANDARD: Look
ROBY: I 'll get you out of there .
STANDARD: No do n't
ROBY: But I can save you get you to the Autodoc !
STANDARD: No good it 's eaten too much of me
ROBY: What can I do ?
STANDARD: Kill me
ROBY: Kitty go bye-bye .
COMPUTER: Attention ! The cooling units for the stardrive engines are not functioning ! Engines will overload in 4 minutes , 50 seconds ! Attention !
ROBY: Computer ! I 've turned all the cooling units back on ! What 's wrong ?
COMPUTER: The reaction has proceeded too far . The core has begun to melt . Engines will overload in 2 minutes , 35 seconds .
ROBY: Try a little of this , you fucking astard .
ROBY: So it looks like I 'll make it ack to the Colonies on schedule after all . I should be to the frontier in another 250 years or so , and then with a little luck the network will pick me up . I 'm not as ich as I was a couple days ago ut I 'm not exactly broke either . Incidentally , I did manage to salvage one souvenir out of this whole mess .
FIRST DRAFT: March 29 , 1990 `` But how will you die when your time comes , Narcissus , since you have no mother ? Without a mother , one can not love . Without a mother , one can not die . '' - Hesse
BROTHER KYLE: Tend you quickly he will , with bottles from a shelf . But heals not , so easily , The ills which plague himself . Brother John stops stirring .
BROTHER JOHN: Enough .
BROTHER KYLE: Yes , Doc Tor .
JOHN: Keep this from getting wet . Go home at late afternoon mealtime and do n't come ack to work today
BURNED MONK: But John
JOHN: I 'll tell the Abbot . Just rest today . You 're lucky you only burned yourself on the side of the furnace . If some of that glass had gotten on your arm He points to the top of his forearm .
BURNED MONK: Thank you , John . I
JOHN: You 're welcome . Go !
KYLE: Good work .
JOHN: All right , but I 'm no Father Anselm .
KYLE: You 're yourself , that 's better Kyle pushes him through the door
JOHN: Do n't .
KYLE: Do n't what ?
JOHN: Please do n't tell him . At least until I know if there 's an infection .
KYLE: You want to be the Abbey 's Physician , and you have n't learned the first rule Do n't worry about the patient . John 's face drops .
JOHN: You do n't , but thanks anyway .
KYLE: Not coming down ?
JOHN: I have someone waiting for me . Kyle disappears into the crowd . John moves up
JOHN: Come on , Mattias . The dog , MATTIAS , joins him in the hall . Monk and pet disappear up a flight of stairs .
PHILIP: Brother John .
JOHN: Brother Philip .
PHILIP: Feeding the mind instead of the body again ?
JOHN: My training has taught me to feed what 's hungry .
PHILIP: As did mine . As long as you 're alone . Enjoy yourself and remember , no book leaves the library .
JOHN: How could I forget ? Have a good meal
ABBOT: Mind ? Just Philip , if he knew . I passed him on the way up . He said you 'd come in alone . I knew better . He scratches the back of Mattias ' neck .
JOHN: He likes when I read to him and I ca n't
ABBOT: Someone must have left this one unlocked . Take the book with you . He hands the key to John , who is shocked this is a great honor .
JOHN: Father , I ?
ABBOT: Kyle tells me you did a good job at the glassworks today .
JOHN: I 'll reserve judgement until the patient lives .
ABBOT: It will get easier . Father Anselm was an unexpected loss . You 'll do fine . The Abbot walks towards the door
JOHN: Thank you . Let 's go upstairs , boy .
KYLE: John ! Wait ! Do n't go in ! John turns back to the open hatch . Machine recirculated air flows out . He feels it on the skin of his face . Cool . Cool , and artificial . It calls to him . He steps in . Swallowed by the blackness
COMPUTER VOICE: Seal brokenseal broken John finds himself moving towards the tube Looks through the broken lid
WOMAN: taking pod four . The Crew of the SS Sulaco and all Marine commandoes are dead . Ship 's sensors have interrupted the hype sleep cycle . An overlooked alien egg has hatched . Bishop and Hicks have been killed . Xenomorphs have infested the cruiser . Newt and I are taking pod four . The Crew of
KYLE: John - what is it ? Is this a Supply ship ?
JOHN: No . No supplies . Kyle , there 's someone in here The Second Monk looks at Kyle .
SECOND MONK: This is forbidden .
KYLE: John . Just get the hell out of there
JOHN: I do n't want to stay . I have to get he out before this sinks . You come in , give me a hand
KYLE: Her ? Look , this is not the supply ship , so this is technology forbidden to us . Get out of there now ! John looks down at Ripely . A KEYPAD is mounted at the head of the tube . A red button `` EMERG-OPEN '' That 's plain enough .
JOHN: All right He presses it .
FIRST MONK: A space ship
SECOND MONK: A woman
KYLE: You should n't have gone in
JOHN: I 'm supposed to be a doctor .
FIRST MONK: Been a long time since I saw either .
SECOND MONK: It is n't sinking . Look at it . What are we supposed to do with it ?
KYLE: What was it like in there ?
JOHN: Lights . So many lights
THIRD MONK: Tow it in . Bring it in .
SECOND MONK: It 's evil .
FIRST MONK: It 's just technology .
SECOND MONK: Evil technology . Look at these fish
THIRD MONK: The Abbot will know what we should do with it
KYLE: Just lights ?
JOHN: Machines . Buttons . Metal .
SECOND MONK: See ? Just look at the fish .
THIRD MONK: The Abbot will know .
SECOND MONK: They 're boiled . These fish are boiled .
JOHN: Thousands of lights . Like the stars . Like Heaven on Earth . Ripley stirs in John 's arms . Groans . Fights to come out of her fugue state Looks around through half-lidded eyes She is surrounded by rowing , cassocked Monks . MONKS ? She closes her eyes . Tries to clear the imagine . Opens They 're still there .
RIPLEY: AAAAAAAAAAAARGH !
JOHN: You 're out of it . Out of it
ABBOT: How is the woman , John ?
JOHN: I do n't think she 's here yet .
RIPLEY: What the hell ?
RIPLEY: This must be a dream . A bad one . She rolls back onto the bed . Stares up at the ceiling .
ABBOT: I am the Abbot . Leader of this Colony . And you ? He smiles . Open . Friendly .
RIPLEY: Ripley . How did I get here ?
ABBOT: Your vehicle crash landed . Brother John found you and brought you here .
RIPLEY: Where is here ?
ABBOT: This is the Minorite Abbey within the manmade orbiter Arceon .
RIPLEY: Can I use a radio to
ABBOT: We have no radio here . We are a monastic order that has renounced all modern technology . We live the old way . The pure way . She shakes her head .
RIPLEY: Uh , I - I still do n't feel 100 % . Whoeve took me out of the stasis tube must not have run the full D-F program Where 's Newt ? The Abbot looks at her blankly .
ABBOT: You were alone .
RIPLEY: No . She was with me . I put her in he stasis tube We launched when the
ABBOT: You were the only living thing found aboard that vessel .
RIPLEY: Oh , God . Newt . She stops gets that chill up her spine
ABBOT: What came with you ?
RIPLEY: Listen there is a danger here . It came with me . How long have I been here ?
ABBOT: Almost two days
RIPLEY: Loose for two days . This planet could be overrun within the week . Ripley grabs the Abbot by his cassock
ABBOT: Wait a moment
RIPLEY: We launched in the Cruiser Sulaco from Gateway sub-orbital space station
ABBOT: Not possible .
RIPLEY: What do you mean ?
ABBOT: When we left Earth seventy years ago , it was on the brink of a New Dark Age . Technology was on the verge of destroying the planet 's environment . A computer virus was threatening to wipe away all recorded knowledge . There did n't seem to be any way it could be averted . In the almost forty years since we were towed out here in hypersleep , the news that came with occasional supply ships only got worse . Finally , the ships stopped coming . We had to resign ourselves to the fact that worst had come to pass , and the Earth no longer existed . Now she gives him that look .
RIPLEY: UhAll right Forget the Earth - How many people do you have here ? Let 's worry about them . Warn them
ABBOT: Your mind is troubled . You need to rest some more .
RIPLEY: I do n't need rest - I need to get to your people . You 've got to get to them tell them about the alien He heads for the door
ABBOT: I have had enough for now .
RIPLEY: Enough ? Did n't you hear what I said ? It could wipe out the entire population of this planet . It may have started already - Have there been any unusual deaths since I got here ? The Abbot stops in the door -
ABBOT: No . And there wo n't be . The Abbot SLAMS the door behind him .
JOHN: What is it What 's wrong ?
ABBOT: Your patient is in a dangerous mental state . Nobody gets in or out until I say so .
JOHN: But I . Her meals
ABBOT: Nobody .
JOHN: Father , I do n't understand The Abbot turns and disappears down the hall .
HYSTERICAL MONK: Brother John ! You 're here ! The Abbot said you 'd I need you 're the medic
JOHN: What ? !
HYSTERICAL MONK: My Sandy she 's ill
JOHN: Huh ? A woman ?
HYSTERICAL MONK: Sandy . My ewe . John returns his head to the table .
JOHN: One of your sheep ? Jesus Christ . Call a vet .
HYSTERICAL MONK: Father Anselm was the vet . John looks under his arms at Mattias The dog just stares at him .
JOHN: You 're no help . Okay , let me get my bag . All creatures great and small
HYSTERICAL MONK: I just gave her dinner and she keeled over .
JOHN: So would I . It 's freezing in here .
HYSTERICAL MONK: Been using the wood from the walls for the fire in my cabin .
JOHN: Have n't we all John kneels at the ewe . She 's breathing heavy . Rapidly .
HYSTERICAL MONK: What is it ?
JOHN: I do n't know . It 's all over the ground . Some sort of
HYSTERICAL MONK: What ? ! WHAT ? !
JOHN: Jesus ! Help m
RIPLEY: IdiotsI 'll
ABBOT: You heard Brother Graham tell of the devil inside sheep 's wool
ABBOT: We know that . At first we believed its arrival was a good omen . But it has only ought pestilence . Dead sheep . Dead fish .
RIPLEY: Yes , the ship brought it . Not evil . It ought the Alien . I told you , it 's here .
ABBOT: We know the name of the evil it brought . It brought technology . Technology to destroy our planet , as surely as it destroyed the Earth .
RIPLEY: I was on the Earth less than a year ago . It 's still there . People , cities , all still there !
ABBOT: All dead .
RIPLEY: It 's still there !
ABBOT: You could not have been on the Earth a year ago , because there is no Earth to e on for at least twenty years .
RIPLEY: I have n't been floating in space fo twenty years . Let me get to my ship and I 'll prove it .
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: This woman is a danger . She denies The New Dark Age . She denies reality .
RIPLEY: This is reality . There is a Xenomorph loose on this planetoid - a alien it must have stowed away on my ship must have killed Newt . Killed the girl I brought with me . You ca n't stop it . It goes inside you like an egg - grows - Explodes out of you - keeps growing into some sort of monster . Kills you Kills all of you She looks at the Medieval people around her . They stare at her in complete confusion . To them , she does sound like a madwoman .
ABBOT: Then there is no choice . The Four Monks grab Ripley roughly Bind her arms .
RIPLEY: You wo n't be able to fight it You do n't know what it is !
ABBOT: No trouble ?
JOHN: This woman . Ripley . I tended her
ABBOT: Yes , and you did a good job . You should n't feel responsible . You could n't have known
JOHN: Please , sir , let me finish . I feel that there may be something to what she says .
ABBOT: There is n't .
JOHN: I do n't understand what you are doing .
ABBOT: This colony is my responsibility . I am protecting the colony .
JOHN: From what ? This woman ? You never gave her a chance . How can you be so sure you 're right ?
ABBOT: A better question is what makes you think I 'm wrong ?
JOHN: You did n't see this thing this demon Brother Graham and I we both saw it .
ABBOT: That 's right . You both did . And what was it ?
JOHN: I I do n't know what it was . But I do n't think Ripley was a party to it .
ABBOT: She admits she brought it .
JOHN: But she tried to warn us
ABBOT: You know that 's how the devil works . Deception .
JOHN: But I believe her . I do n't know how to describe it A feeling .
ABBOT: You have n't seen a woman in thirty years . Where does this feeling originate , John ?
JOHN: Here . Pause .
ABBOT: I believe you . But your feelings are fooling you .
JOHN: It 's - It 's her conviction . I just think The Abbot snaps at him
ABBOT: Do n't think .
JOHN: That 's what she said . The Abbot chafes .
ABBOT: These are ideas which threaten the very system we live under . The creature is dead and the woman is gone . Forget them . Both . Go read . Go fishing . Go anywhere , ut leave this alone .
JOHN: But I
ABBOT: Alone . I 'll get Philip to let Mattias into the Library , all right ? For you own good , just stay out of this . John looks like he 's going to protest .
JOHN: Yes , Father . John turns and leaves the room . The Abbot stares after him .
WORKER: Here you go , woman . Something from you ship . Something to keep you company
RIPLEY: You fucking idiots ! You 're dead ! You 're all dead ! BEATS the walls . KICKS . SMASHES her HEAD against the wall . Again . Her nose starts to bleed . Her hand goes to her nose . She squints in the darkenss . Sees the BLOOD . Tastes the iron taste in her mouth . Death is with her again .
ABBOT: Start in the library . And keep it quiet . The Third Burly Monk nods and moves off .
JOHN: I Abbot . Must
KYLE: John - relax . Take a deep breath - Christ , now I sound like you
JOHN: Yes . Devil . Kyle moves closer to him . Cautiously . John sees the other monks gathering around Closing in on him - whispering
WHISPERING MONKS: He 's got it
WHISPERING MONK: He 's infected
KYLE: Everything 's gon na be fine . Now , let 's see the
JOHN: Do n't humor me I 'm
KYLE: Sure . Everything 's gon na be fine If only he could explain - he ca n't . John YANKS the book away spins Bursts through the crowd
ABBOT: Cold tonight
RIPLEY: Wherever I go .
ANTHONY: You waiting for meat ? They do n't bring me meat because they know I 'm an android . Really do n't need it . Bread 's bette for you anyway . Harder to digest , so it makes you feel fuller than you are .
RIPLEY: Not hungry . Anthony takes a bite .
ANTHONY: Mmmm . Just a little crunchy .
RIPLEY: Waste of time .
ANTHONY: You do n't eat , you 'll starve to death , girl .
RIPLEY: That was the plan when they put me down here . And why should you care ?
ANTHONY: Because I 'm a synthetic person you do n't think I can care ?
RIPLEY: Believe me , that 's a discussion you do n't want to have with me .
ANTHONY: You told me you had a bad experience and a good one with androids
RIPLEY: That 's one of each . That means you could go either way . I 'm tired of talking about this . He pushes the bread towards her again .
ANTHONY: You 've still got ta eat . You got ta fight the bastards
RIPLEY: I 'm tired of fighting . Maybe I 'll be dead before he finds me . Maybe he wo n't get the satisfaction .
ANTHONY: He ? You make it sound like this Alien has a personal score to settle with you . The biology you describe Queen laying eggs , larvae , drone that 's very insectoid . Insects usually do n't bea grudges .
RIPLEY: And Androids usually are n't the prisoners of lunatics that believe they 're ancient Greeks .
ANTHONY: Medieval Monks .
RIPLEY: Whatever .
ANTHONY: And they 've only chose to live the life style , they do n't believe they 're What 's that ? Ripley strains to listen . In the distance KNOCKING . Someone is knocking on the walls . A VOICE calls out
JOHN: Ripley ! He moves down the hallway .
ANTHONY: Hey you knocking cut it out You 're going to wake everybody up .
JOHN: Anthony ? Thought you dead fifteen years .
ANTHONY: Made too good for that . What 're you doing ?
JOHN: I I 'm looking the Abbot
ANTHONY: What ? You look like you 've seen the devil .
RIPLEY: I was right , was n't I ? You 've seen it , you 've seen the Alien ? John pauses at that . His eyes tighten at the memory .
JOHN: Puh . Please .
RIPLEY: It never ends .
ANTHONY: It must be able to take on some of the characteristics of the animal it grows in . Maybe they are from some sort of aggressive soldier race warring parties drop the eggs on opposing planets
RIPLEY: And the alien takes on the form of the creature that finds it , assuming that animal is the dominant life form on the planet . So when it gestates in a man Ripley shudders at the memory .
RIPLEY: Shit . I just did n't think it could do that to animals .
JOHN: Wait a minute - I thought you were the expert on this monster .
RIPLEY: Is that the only reason you came to get me out ? Because I knew about this thing ?
JOHN: Yes . I mean no . I mean , that was part of it . Look . I never thought you were wrong . I was wrong not to say anything . I was afraid to speak up . It 's hard to be a monk , you know ? Ripley stops . Looks at him . A long beat .
RIPLEY: Thank you . If anything , you 're honest .
JOHN: We all are . Took vows .
RIPLEY: I do n't know about the Abbot .
JOHN: I 'm sure he thinks what he did was right .
RIPLEY: Is that speaking up for someone ?
JOHN: No . Charity . She smiles . They turn a corner
RIPLEY: All right , let 's forget about the past and get on to our survival . No more prisoners behind us ?
ANTHONY: Not for years .
RIPLEY: Okay If the Alien 's had a few days to lay his eggs our only hope is to get off this - What is this ?
JOHN: Arceon .
ANTHONY: Satellite .
RIPLEY: Get to my ship and get off this Satellite .
JOHN: We ca n't .
RIPLEY: We ca n't what ?
JOHN: Leave Arceon . Ca n't leave the library
RIPLEY: A Tape Library ?
JOHN: Books .
RIPLEY: So ?
JOHN: The reason we are out here . Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague
RIPLEY: There must be books on other colonies
JOHN: Some of these books survived the burning of the Libraries of Alexandria . They contain knowledge that exists in no other record . Their value is unestimable .
RIPLEY: And what does an android have to do with all this ?
JOHN: He 's a spy .
ANTHONY: The Company planted me here .
RIPLEY: The Company ? What does the Company have to do with this ?
ANTHONY: They built this prison .
RIPLEY: Prison ?
JOHN: Colony .
ANTHONY: Prison . They are all political heretics . Ripley looks at John .
RIPLEY: You left that part out .
JOHN: The order was more of a counter culture , a reaction to the Technology that was eginning to take over everyone 's lives . It was a simple enough idea - Read , do n't watch disk . Walk , do n't pump more carbons into the air . The earliest members enounced technology . Started to collect the remaining books . Nobody would have noticed if it had n't been for the Virus .
RIPLEY: Your Abbot talked about that . The New Plague .
ANTHONY: A computer virus . A bad program . By this time the Corporate structure was transglobal , all the world 's data storage systems were linked . It spread through two countries before it was stopped .
JOHN: After a scare like that , thousands flocked to our retreat . People started clamoring for written information . For our books . They abandoned the modern ways
RIPLEY: I think I can see how this comes out . They gave up their possessions .
ANTHONY: This was a threat
RIPLEY: To the Company .
JOHN: They sold the technology . A movement to live simply was quickly twisted by Federal agents into a political movement against the Company-controlled World Government . Too much was at stake .
RIPLEY: Too much profit .
JOHN: We were sentenced as political dissidents . This orbiter is our gulag . All the men were packed up with all our books , and towed into space . Ten thousand men . The eldest died very quickly .
RIPLEY: The Company had such a sense of irony . Sending you out on this wooden tub .
ANTHONY: I was placed among them as a sensor . Keeps tabs on the movement .
RIPLEY: So how 'd they find out about you ?
ANTHONY: I told them . After the supply ship 's stopped coming I saw no point in keeping up the charade . Since I was a sort of walking reminder of technology , they cast me down .
RIPLEY: Join the club . I figured this was n't planned . You do n't have to be a genius to see it would n't be prudent to try to preserve man 's written works for generations without women . John looks embarrassed .
JOHN: Perhaps .
RIPLEY: That 's better than nothing . Come on . They reach the end of the corridor . It opens into
ANTHONY: In Heaven .
RIPLEY: Right . And this is Anthony and John nod .
ANTHONY: This orbiter was patterned after a medieval concept of the universe They call the top half `` Heaven - ``
JOHN: The Abbey , the fields
ANTHONY: The bottom half is `` Hell . '' Where we are .
RIPLEY: Aptly named . What 's in the middle ?
JOHN: The sea .
ANTHONY: Really .
RIPLEY: Work with me here . How far is it back to the surface of the planet ?
JOHN: As a stone falls - Five miles through the center .
RIPLEY: And the elevator the thing they lowered me down in ?
JOHN: Ropes cut .
ANTHONY: It 's smart . First he cuts their escape off , then works his way down through the monastery level by level until there is n't a thing left alive . Interesting
RIPLEY: Well , you start appreciating him more than me and I 'll find a way to shut you down , capisce , Andy ? How do we get up ?
JOHN: There are ladders .
RIPLEY: Five miles with the Alien between us and there ? Good luck , boys . She turns and heads back towards her cell John catches her shoulder
JOHN: You ca n't
RIPLEY: Ca n't what ? Not help you go to you deaths ? I 've had my fill of that .
JOHN: I need you . I ca n't do it alone .
RIPLEY: I 've fought these creatures twice efore . It take a lot to kill these things . Heavy artillery .
ANTHONY: We do n't have weapons here .
RIPLEY: How about something we can make weapons from ? Do you have anything like that any modern things here ? John SHAKES his head vehemently
JOHN: We renounced technology . It was those things that caused the Plague .
RIPLEY: This is a man-made planet . Something has to be recirculating your air , your water .
JOHN: God ?
RIPLEY: Please .
JOHN: I do n't know . I just took it for granted .
RIPLEY: Most people do . Without some sort of technology we have n't got a chance . From behind them
ANTHONY: There is technology . John and Ripley turn to look at him .
RIPLEY: An atmosphere processing plant
ANTHONY: The heart and lungs of Arceon .
RIPLEY: Where is it ?
ANTHONY: One level beneath the underground sea .
JOHN: That 's five levels up
ANTHONY: On the other side of the orbiter . John looks at Ripley
JOHN: A chance .
RIPLEY: All right . You 've got me - so far . But here 's the deal I do n't know how many of your brethren are going to be alive when we get up there , ut if we make it to my ship , you 're all coming with me . We 'll take as many of your precious books as we can carry , but we 're going . I 'm not going to fight this thing again to end up alone again . Understand ? John nods his head .
ABBOT: Stay together . Together
RIPLEY: What ?
JOHN: Those things you said before Ripley remembers her `` confession . ''
RIPLEY: I got a belly full of that from the Psychtechs when I was on Earth . Yeah . `` Survivor Guilt syndrome , '' or something like that . But that 's not what I was thinking about . I was thinking about my `` friend '' up there . She looks up .
JOHN: You make it sound human .
RIPLEY: Hell , I do n't know what it is . John unconsiously fingers his book .
JOHN: I think I do .
RIPLEY: Thanks .
JOHN: You 're welcome . They roll off each other . Her hand goes up to her nose . Blood .
RIPLEY: I 'm all right .
JOHN: Hold this against your nose . It 'll stop the flow . She looks over at him questioningly .
ANTHONY: No - please . Just let me sit . Awhile .
RIPLEY: What was that ?
ANTHONY: The reason I 'm down here . John points to his own eyes .
JOHN: Visions .
ANTHONY: Dreams .
RIPLEY: Androids ca n't dream
ANTHONY: That 's probably what they thought when they built me . But my brain is cyber- organic - patterned after the human ain - it functions the same way a human brain does . It accumulates random images and sensations during waking hours , but unlike the human brain that sloughs them off during sleep
RIPLEY: Androids do n't sleep .
ANTHONY: Right . Maybe they 've fixed this on late models , but I do n't . Do you know what happens to the human brain when it is deprived of sleep ? It starts to run off the dreams while you 're awake , as hallucinations . Same thing with me . For twenty years I absorbed data on this planetoid . A little after we lost contact with Earth the visions started . They thought I was insane . I had to explain that it was because I was an android . They liked that even less .
RIPLEY: What did you see ?
ANTHONY: What I always see . Images of Monsters . Demons .
JOHN: They 're portents . They stand for an evil yet to come .
ANTHONY: Just images I 've absorbed from those old ooks and have no way to get rid of .
RIPLEY: I saw the inside of your cell .
ANTHONY: My head is full of them . I try to get them out any way I can . His eyelids droop .
JOHN: You need sleep .
ANTHONY: I know that . I 'll settle for rest .
RIPLEY: Stay with him .
JOHN: No . We all need rest . You especially . Ripley considers him .
RIPLEY: All right . He 's still above us , anyway .
JOHN: What do you mean ?
RIPLEY: I 've faced this evil twice before - I guess I 've gotten sensitive to it You 're really a Doctor ? John pats his canvas bag .
JOHN: See my bag ?
RIPLEY: What 's that book ?
JOHN: Just a book .
RIPLEY: I do n't buy `` just a book '' from a guy who says we ca n't leave the planet without the library .
JOHN: It 's just a medical book I might need .
RIPLEY: You do n't have any food in there , do you ?
JOHN: Only if you can eat bandages . Ripley rubs her midsection .
RIPLEY: In a few hours that 's going to sound good . Going in and out of suspended animation - Christ I probably have n't eaten in a year .
ANTHONY: You should 've eaten the bread .
JOHN: You all right ?
RIPLEY: Aces .
JOHN: You were n't hurt when I landed on you ? Bruised a rib ?
RIPLEY: Are you sure you 're a doctor ? He withdraws his hands .
JOHN: Sort of . My father passed on when we first came here . The Abbey 's Physician - Father Anselm - took me in . He really aised me Taught me what he could before he passed away . He was schooled on Earth .
RIPLEY: Well , I 'm just hungry .
JOHN: You have n't eaten since I took you out of your tube .
RIPLEY: You did that
ANTHONY: Enough rest . There 's beasties afoot . They start into
JOHN: Blood . Mixed with sea water .
ANTHONY: We 're getting close to the center of the arc near the sea .
RIPLEY: Blood .
JOHN: Getting close John HEARS somthing . Raises his hand `` stop ''
RIPLEY: The Abbot . Cassock torn , dirty . Hair , eyes wild . Anthony 's staff across his throat . John pulls back .
JOHN: Father
RIPLEY: What are you doing down here , father ? You look like you 've seen something that does n't exist .
ABBOT: I was their spiritual leader . I was not prepared to lead them in battle . Not against that thing .
JOHN: No one could be .
RIPLEY: I thought you said the evil was inside me that sealing me up was the answe to all your problems ?
ABBOT: Destruction . The destruction YOU brought to us !
RIPLEY: I only tried to warn you .
ABBOT: What are you doing with this woman ?
JOHN: We are going to the Technology Room . Trying to find some way to fight
ABBOT: You do n't join the devil to fight the devil .
ANTHONY: She 's helping us
ABBOT: Look who defends the deceiver the one who is n't even human . John , ca n't you see what is happening ? On ancient Earth , during the Black Death - many believed that God had abandoned them , so they appealed to the Devil . Flocked to him hoping to save their bodies - losing thei souls in the bargain .
RIPLEY: Father , we 're all on the run from the same monster so let 's not resort to the fire and brimstone routine . I 've been enlightened about your `` movement . '' Pretty funny to be tried for heresy on a planet of heretics .
JOHN: Please . The time for pretense is past .
ABBOT: All right . I was trying to keep you quiet .
JOHN: Sir ?
ABBOT: I do what I have to do to keep the Brotherhood together . We all gave up elieving in Earth a long time ago . How do you think they would feel if told their exiled was in vain ? That the holocaust they were trying to avoid never occured ? Those men up there have grown to live with it .
RIPLEY: And with you as their leader . The Abbot smiles . Ripley is sharp .
ABBOT: You threatened the status quo .
RIPLEY: So you , protector of knowledge and truth , lied to them .
ABBOT: Only about you . The rest I still elieve . If Earth still orbits its sun there is no way it could have survived eing reduced to Barbarism .
RIPLEY: You 're as bad as the Company .
JOHN: Ripley
RIPLEY: That 's why you ran . After all your talk death stared you in the face and you were afraid .
ABBOT: Not afraid of death .
RIPLEY: The Alien .
ANTHONY: The Organism .
ABBOT: The Devil .
ABBOT: What was that ? Anthony pulls his stick from the grasp of a
ANTHONY: Man trap . They lower their candles . Look to
ANTHONY: In case anyone tried to get in and tamper with the technology .
ABBOT: What do we do ?
RIPLEY: Do n't move . Do n't breath .
ABBOT: We ca n't just stand here and wait .
RIPLEY: Floor 's too unstable to try to walk around them .
ABBOT: John - what are you doing ? John pulls the stick out of the rusted jaws . Moves to the next trap Snap ! !
RIPLEY: He 's thinking like a leader . Everyone Grab wood . Spring the traps . Clear a path . Good work , Father John .
JOHN: Brother .
RIPLEY: Brother . Let 's go .
JOHN: I just - are you allright ?
RIPLEY: Tied . Without sleep , food I just feel my age . Figuring hyperspace time , I 'm almost a hundred .
JOHN: Hello ? The wall beneath his fist sounds hollow .
ABBOT: Technology .
RIPLEY: Yeah - a hundred years ago . An antique .
ABBOT: Go ahead .
RIPLEY: Go ahead and what ?
ABBOT: Open the door , woman .
RIPLEY: I 'll get to it , but listen to me you may dress like you 're living in the middle ages but you ca n't treat me like your chambermaid , or whateve Monks had .
ABBOT: OPEN IT ! !
ABBOT: What 's wrong ? !
RIPLEY: Shit .
RIPLEY: It 's open ! !
ABBOT: Close it close it it 's coming -
RIPLEY: We wait . John ! ! John and Anthony appear out of the shadows Run/hobble towards the door
ABBOT: Hurry
JOHN: HURRY ! !
JOHN: I thought we 'd lost you .
RIPLEY: What are you writing ?
JOHN: Last will and testament . Just kidding . She looks to her left
RIPLEY: Is he ?
JOHN: Resting . He 'll be fine .
ANTHONY: No I wo n't . He 's a terrible liar .
RIPLEY: I 'm sorry .
ANTHONY: It 's ironic . I guess my visions were prescience after all . How will I eve esolve that with my artifical con- science ?
ABBOT: Do you see what you 've delivered us into ?
RIPLEY: Yeah . Lead me not into temptation to kick your ahh Ripley tries to stand - her head spins .
ABBOT: On the other side of that door . Waiting for us to starve to death .
RIPLEY: It 's playing with us . It could get in here any time it wants .
ABBOT: Why should he enter ? He knows that one of the people in this room is in league with him .
JOHN: Sir . We 're all in the same coracle , so to speak .
ABBOT: Maybe more than one of us .
RIPLEY: Let 's talk about the facts , Mr. Abbot . She looks at the windmills .
ABBOT: Even this is forbidden to us .
RIPLEY: Well then , the facts are that we 're screwed .
ANTHONY: More than that . There are pumps beneath the floor - I can feel their vibration .
RIPLEY: Probably pumping this air through charcoal filters .
JOHN: Yes
RIPLEY: Your wood burning fires throw soot into the atmosphere , building the cloud layer - cutting off the sun 's rays - cooling the planet , forcing you to burn more wood .
ANTHONY: The Greenhouse Effect . It 's how the Earth almost destroyed itself in the late 20th century .
RIPLEY: Do n't you see ? This is a planet set to self destruct . Not in ten minutes or two hours but soon . Your atmosphere here is finite . If the plants die the fires will eat up all the oxygen - this planetoid will be dead - Everyone will die .
ABBOT: It 's here . I was just hoping I would be dead long before it came to this .
JOHN: What ?
RIPLEY: Wait a minute you were exiled ?
ABBOT: The punishment for our crime was death . Anthony sits up .
ANTHONY: This planet is the supreme triumph of planned obsolesence . A certain amount of primitive materials with an atmosphere processing system as fragile as a real environment but not replenishable . The Abbot has a faraway look in his eyes
ABBOT: Poetic justice for the anti-technologists . The Company 's best work . You know , I used to be a corporate executive . Middle range V.P . Then my wife got hit by a speed craft . I chucked it all and joined the order . Be a monk see the world . Being here , eing chairman of the board
RIPLEY: No , now I understand why I landed here . To join you happy lunatics in you deaths . Ripley moves away John starts after her .
JOHN: Ripley , wait The Abbot stands , blocks his way .
ABBOT: Where can she go ? She 's trapped . Trapped inside her own prison . A prison in her mind . Inside her mind . Dancing . Sparklets of light - dance with the june ugs in the recesses of ourmindstheyare coming to danceintheshadowof John and Ripley turn to look at the Abbot . He begins to speak faster . Faster . He shakes . Vibrates is more accurate A trickle of BLOOD runs from his left ear
RIPLEY: BASTARD ! ! It came out of his fucking head !
ANTHONY: I did n't have to see that to know what that means .
RIPLEY: He sent him to us . That bastard outside . I ca n't get away from him . He 's fucking with my mind . He 's my punishment !
ANTHONY: I 'm confused . Before you said it came out of the torso , not the head
JOHN: Ripley , do n't She pushes him away and sinks to the floor .
RIPLEY: I should just wait for the air to run out
JOHN: I believe - I know - that we can win there is an answer in our books .
RIPLEY: Your books ? Your books are gone , Brother . Your world is gone . Once that thing starts to lay its eggs , all your brothers - if they are n't already - are dead .
JOHN: If that 's true , then all of us , the books , are consigned to ashes . He clasps his hands and bows his head . The Abbot 's blood drips off his hands . Plip - plop ! Into a little puddle at Ripley 's feet . She stares at the blood . Aahk . Feels the PAIN again . Runs her hand across her chest
RIPLEY: What ?
ANTHONY: There are several inconsistancies between this and the other Aliens you described .
RIPLEY: Give it up .
ANTHONY: I think this is important . This may help us fight it . The creature that I fought in the hall - when I first saw it , it had camoflaged itself to look like wood . Ripley looks up .
RIPLEY: Wood ? When I saw it in my room it looked the way it did before black , mechanical unless that was a dream .
ANTHONY: I do n't think it was . I think that this creature , if it is the efficient predato that you say it is , has the ability to adapt to its environment .
RIPLEY: Then the reason they 've always looked the same to me is that I only ever saw them in the same environment .
ANTHONY: Or this may be an as yet unseen stage of development you saw a queen This could be like a King ant more highly advanced than the drone , bred fo survival - ?
JOHN: How does this explain the thing that came out of the ewe 's chest ? The Abbot 's head ?
RIPLEY: Maybe it can deposit different types of eggs . The chest burster is probably dormant until the host eats - The first one I ever saw came out of Kane after he started to eat And in one horrible moment she realizes She has n't eaten . The pain in her chest
JOHN: No what ?
RIPLEY: No , we 're not beat yet , Father
JOHN: Brother Ripley gets up .
RIPLEY: Brother . Not yet . If he 's taunting me , then maybe we can use that . We can beat this bastard . We can get to my ship . We can live .
ANTHONY: Do n't have second thoughts . Blind and crippled I would only slow you down . Give him time to figure out what you 're doing . Just leave me my staff .
RIPLEY: Okay . Good luck . She shakes his hand . He pulls her closer .
ANTHONY: Ripley , I know . Good luck .
RIPLEY: Sit tight .
JOHN: We had better go , then . He smiles . She smiles back . They move up the ladder .
RIPLEY: Where is the light coming from ?
JOHN: Mirrors . Reflect the outside light down great shafts through lenses . That 's what they make in the glass factory . Lenses . Look She turns
RIPLEY: What do we do ?
JOHN: We cross .
ANTHONY: Now the seer can only see what God wants him to . Forty years on a planet of Monks and I 've finally found religion . A floor board CREAKS . Anthony strains to hear
RIPLEY: Your hands okay ?
JOHN: They 'll be fine . You 've been on a boat before . Ripley squints ahead of them . The ocean seems to go on forever .
RIPLEY: I was a warrant officer on a ship ut I did all my sailing in space .
JOHN: Father Anselm used to take me on his coracle when I was little . Ripley leans forward - scans his face .
RIPLEY: How old were you when they towed this satellite out here ?
JOHN: Five . The Abbot said they put us to sleep for the thirty years it took to get here . We 've had almost forty more . Until now .
RIPLEY: What happened to your mother ?
JOHN: Never had one . I mean , never knew her . I mean , I did , once . She left my fathe when he joined the movement . If she had n't I would n't be here . They kept the other children with the women , on Earth . That was too long ago now . Like a dream .
RIPLEY: Did you know that I was a mother ?
JOHN: The girl in the ship with - ?
RIPLEY: No . On Earth . I never mentioned my daughter . My daughter . I have - had I guess , by now - a daughter on Earth . Kathy . She was nine when I signed on to the Nostromo . Mommy will be home before you know it I said . My shares would have set us up good . Then I lost sixty years floating around in a rescue pod . Thanks to the Alien . I came home to face a bitter , 70 year old woman . My daughter . A little girl who 's mother never came home .
JOHN: Jesus Christ .
RIPLEY: They said I should have been happy to be alive . Funny , huh ? That 's why I went ack the second time . Not so I could fight it You ca n't fight it So I could let it kill me . She rubs her chest
JOHN: You did n't choose to get lost in space .
RIPLEY: Thanks for the try Father
JOHN: Brother .
RIPLEY: Brother , but I 'm not looking for absolution . I could n't be a good mother to my daughter . I could n't be a good mother to Newt . But I can be a good mother to you . I can make sure you survive . Suddenly they feel rain Ripley holds out her hand . Her eyes open wide at what she sees .
JOHN: From the levels above . His face goes white .
RIPLEY: Do n't think about it . Do n't think about what 's up there . Just row .
RIPLEY: Holy shit . John crosses himself .
JOHN: There 's Andrew . And Raphael . Peter
RIPLEY: Stop . How far ?
JOHN: We 're right below the Abbey now . They cross the smoldering field .
JOHN: This is the glassworks . They have tools here Kyle He runs across the room
KYLE: Ca n't see my baby . Do n't see my baby . Bay be .
JOHN: Kyle . Brother Kyle .
KYLE: Cards on the floor , fifty two pickup . Black king on red queen , put the ace up John SHAKES him .
JOHN: Kyle goddammit ! Ripley moves closer .
RIPLEY: John - it 's too late Kyle begins to sing faster . Faster .
KYLE: Ace up . Put the ace up . Redaceupup . Blackaceup.Up.Pup-pup-pup-chaka- oomloommawhacka Booomalooma looma Ripley and John look at each other . They know what this means .
JOHN: Keep singing , my friend . John loops the rope around Kyle 's neck . Strangles him . Eases the lifeless body to the floor . Stares at it .
JOHN: I killed him . I 'm a doctor and I killed him .
RIPLEY: You had to . You 're supposed to end suffering .
JOHN: No . He has n't been up here yet . I did this .
RIPLEY: I 'm glad . Really . But we 've probably only got a few minutes before this entire place goes up in flames . Just grab whatever books you want and Ripley leans in to pet Mattias . Mattias draws his lip back . Growls . He 's looking over Ripley 's shoulder . She turns around slowly
JOHN: Easy , boy
RIPLEY: Is there another way out ?
JOHN: Not that will do us any good .
JOHN: We hurt it .
RIPLEY: You wan na give it a bandage ? Look Where is my ship from here ?
JOHN: On the roof directly above this room .
RIPLEY: Here 's the plan
JOHN: But the books
RIPLEY: Forget the books !
JOHN: No ! THE BOOKS ! !
RIPLEY: Do n't ! John steps forward Ripley grabs for him The ACID EATS through the wooden floor
RIPLEY: Aargh . I 'm fine . Let 's get the fuck out of
RIPLEY: Beat Beat him - ugh She grabs her stomach as her knees give out . John gives her an arm for support .
JOHN: We 've got to get to the Library
RIPLEY: Do n't worry . Ship . Just They look up
JOHN: Some of them ! I 've got to save some of them ! Mattias ! !
RIPLEY: They 're lost . You did your best . If you get out , it was n't in vain . We 've got to live ! ! She YANKS him into the hallway
JOHN: The Library
RIPLEY: I told you the Earth is still there
JOHN: What does that mean ?
RIPLEY: It means I do n't know how long I was in hyper sleep .
JOHN: It means the Abbot could 've been right
RIPLEY: It means my clock is n't working . We have to get out of here . Even if he was right this ship 's onboard computer is filled with man 's knowledge .
JOHN: Not everything . Some things will be lost forever .
RIPLEY: Then man starts over . He 's done it efore .
JOHN: What can I do ?
RIPLEY: Here , I need a compressor tank from in that compartment . She motions towards an open door . John enters the compartment . Whoosh-CLANG - ! The door closes behind him .
JOHN: Hey ! What ? ! He looks out the window in the door .
RIPLEY: I know . I locked you in .
JOHN: What ?
RIPLEY: I 'm not going with you . I 've got one inside me .
JOHN: What ? ! You ca n't She runs a hand across her midsection .
RIPLEY: I figured it out . That 's why it did n't kill me . He must have impregnated me when I was in the stasis tube . It has n't come out yet because I have n't eaten , It 's still dormant . So either I eat and it kills me or I do n't eat and I starve to death . Either way I die .
JOHN: My book I know what to do
RIPLEY: What , an exorcism ? No good .
JOHN: You ca n't do this . Ripley - listen to me - you 're confusing feeling of guilt for actual sin - I can help you
RIPLEY: I 've set a time lock . When the pod escapes the Colony 's gravitational pull this compartment will open . Then all you have to do is get into the Stasis tube with Mattias and press the blue button . With any luck a freighter or something will pick you up . Good luck . He pounds his fists against the door .
JOHN: NO ! No , Goddammit - you ca n't do this . You ca n't let it win . She turns away from the door .
RIPLEY: It always wins . We killed it , but it 's still inside me You 're my last chance . If I can keep you alive it 'll make up for all those I 've lost .
JOHN: Listen to me ! You have to let me try ! Ripley You 're MY only chance ! She 's listening
RIPLEY: What is this stuff ?
JOHN: Something that will make you well . Something that will make you sick .
RIPLEY: I do n't
JOHN: Shut up and drink . He lifts the back of Ripley 's head FORCES the drink down her throat .
RIPLEY: Why ?
JOHN: Choking . It was the only way . He drops the open book in front of her She sees the etching .
RIPLEY: But you Ripley tries to stand - to go after him
JOHN: That 's idea . Joinmy brothers . If we were right , Heaven . If we were wrong either way , where we belong . World of ooks . Pages . He draws the parchment out of his bag . Drops it to the floor .
RIPLEY: No - wait ! John ! To the Door . Looks out
CRAIS: That was the scene in California 's Mojave Desert three years ago today the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival . As with the assassination of John Kennedy , who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning , when news first broke that people have landed from another star .
FEDORCHUK: I remember where I was pissing off my balcony at the neighbor 's dog ! Others laugh .
ALTEREZ: Get to the goddamn ball scores !
CRAIS: These `` Newcomers , '' we soon learned , were a genetically-engineered race , adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition . In effect , their ship was a slave ship washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came from
FRESNO HOUSEWIFE: When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship , they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here . You can imagine how the people around here felt about that . But once they were eleases from the camp and we got a chance to know them , we saw what nice , quiet people they really are
FEDORCHUK: Hey , Henry , how you doin ' tonight ? Workin ' hard ?
SYKES: Jeez they call that gang-bang a game ? A billboard for Pepsi featuring an alien .
TUGGLE: It is .
SYKES: How can I go ?
TUGGLE: Put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie , have your landlady tie your shoes for you , and show up at the church . Simple . Me and Carol are going .
SYKES: What ?
TUGGLE: Hey , look we 've known Kristin since since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear . Remember ? You and Edie banged the wall so hard , me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair fo a week
SYKES: Goddammit , Tug I want to see Kristin get married , okay ? But
TUGGLE: But you 're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying fo the whole thing .
SYKES: Shit , if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it , we 'd be holding the reception at Buddy 's Burgers .
TUGGLE: Whatever gave you that idea ?
SYKES: Let 's do it , partner .
TUGGLE: Of course . Right in the trunk of the car .
SYKES: Yeah , that 's comforting . Mine , too .
TUGGLE: Watch the driver . I 'm going for a etter angle on the door .
SYKES: I got him . Do n't get pinned .
TUGGLE: I ca n't ! Do you mind !
SYKES: I 'll cover you ! Get outta there ! !
OLD MAN: Can I get out now ?
TUGGLE: Move it !
SYKES: Aw shit , Tug , Jesus ! Goddamn it !
HUMAN COP: Whoa , whoa hold it . Take it easy . You okay ?
JETSON: I am all right .
HUMAN COP: I better call in .
JETSON: Your hand will require attention .
SYKES: Get the hell away from me ! I do n't need your goddamn help .
NATUZZI: Looks like a standard combat pump- action .
MINKLER: It is .
NATUZZI: So what punched holes clear through that car out there ?
MINKLER: BRI Sabot slugs . These puppies are nasty . Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-calibe slug going two thousand feet pe second . Tug might as well 've been hiding behind a rosebush .
NATUZZI: Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store . A new voice enters the conversation .
MINKLER: Yeah ? So why the extra fire power ?
JETSON: Perhaps because even the large caliber handguns are n't always effective against my people .
SYKES: You saying there 's some connection to this other homicide ?
FEMALE COP: Hey , give me a hand with this woman , will ya Jetson ? We 've got to get her to Division for her statement and she wo n't budge .
JETSON: Excuse me .
SYKES: So , you think there 's a connection , or what ? Hey !
KRISTIN'S VOICE: Hi , Daddy , it 's me . I 'm over at Danny 's parents ' house talking about Sunday . I thought maybe you 'd e home by now . Anyway , uh , nothing eally . I just wanted to call and say I love you . I love you , Daddy . Uh-oh , I should n't ' a done that . Knowing you , you 'll probably pull this tape out of your machine and save it in that drawer where you keep every card I ever gave you , and all of my old baby teeth gross ! Anyway , Daddy , do n't save this tape but I do love you , and I 'll talk to you before Sunday . Oh , Tug and Carol came by and met Danny last week . Danny thought Tug was the greatest but , then , who does n't ? Anyway , love you , talk to you soon . 'Bye .
SYKES: So what 've you got on Tuggle 's killers ?
FEDORCHUK: Jesus , Sykes it 's been less than ten hours . Me and Alterez are on it , okay ?
SYKES: You do n't have squat .
FEDORCHUK: You ever try to make a case in Slagtown ? The list of Newcome informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes
ALTEREZ: Up yours .
FEDORCHUK: Nobody talks to nobody down there . Half of them do n't speak English and the other half only when it suits them . It 's gon na take some time .
SYKES: Yeah , I know it 's gon na take time . Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell , with you two on it .
WARNER: Nobody wanders off ! I got an announcement . Get your asses back in here .
FEDORCHUK: Unbelievable bullshit .
ALTEREZ: How long has this Slag been on the force ? A year , max right ?
DETECTIVE: I do n't know about the rest of you , ut I sure as hell ai n't gon na sit still for this . I 'm calling the union , pronto .
FEDORCHUK: Where the hell is he going ?
WARNER: Yeah , Sykes ?
SYKES: Captain . I 'd like to volunteer fo duty with the new detective .
WARNER: All right . Detective Sergeant Sykes , this is Detective Jetson .
JETSON: We have met .
GOLDRUP: Victor Goldrup , Mayor 's office . Congratulations , gentlemen .
WARNER: You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle 's death . You know that . Leave that for Fedorchuk .
SYKES: Departmental policy .
WARNER: You ?
JETSON: Yes , sir .
WARNER: Good .
SYKES: There 's another case I 'd like to take . A homicide a Newcome named Hubley .
WARNER: Granger and Pitts are already on it .
SYKES: Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes , and Hubley 's ody being found over in the Newcomer community
WARNER: Do n't tell me what to think .
GOLDRUP: He 's got a point . That 's the sort of thing we should be doing with this early advancement program
SYKES: and we work my hours . I 'll do the driving , you do the paperwork . You got ta learn it so you might as well do it all .
JETSON: Sergeant I 'd like to thank you for what you 're doing .
SYKES: What 's that ? Look , Jetson . Get this straight in your head . We 're not pals , we 're not married , and we ai n't gon na take long moonlight walks together We 're just partners . And do n't call me Sergeant . Call me Sykes o Matt if you have to .
JETSON: I am George .
SYKES: Wait a minute . George ? George Jetson ? Jetson nods he 's used to this . Sykes cracks up .
JETSON: My true name is Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa ' .
SYKES: Gesundheit . You do n't mind if I stick to George , do you ?
JETSON: That is exactly so . It is like your name Sykes . I 'm sure it does n't bother you at all that it sounds like `` ss'ai k'ss '' , two words in my language which mean `` excrement '' and `` cranium '' . Sykes looks at him , perplexed .
SYKES: Let 's talk Hubley .
JETSON: His body was discovered three days ago , in an alley off of Central Avenue , near downtown .
SYKES: With two BRI Sabot slugs in the chest .
JETSON: Through the chest . Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts .
SYKES: Nice signal , dickwad !
JETSON: He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance . He was manager of the Methane Facility . He was also a principle partner in a eal estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers .
SYKES: Terrific . A real pillar of the community . Was Hubley missing anything when they found him ? Was he ripped off ?
JETSON: There was no wallet but he was still wearing a watch and two rings .
SYKES: The guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till but I do n't think that 's what they were there for . I think we got us a couple ' a executions on our hands , George
JETSON: The murder at the mini-mart is not our case . The Captain said Sykes looks over at Jetson , pissed .
SYKES: Look , you want to fit in here , ight ? You want to learn how to get along ?
JETSON: Yes .
SYKES: Well , there 's a thing about partners , about being somebody 's partner . You do for each other . And other people 's rules do n't mean shit . It 's the rules set up between the two of you , that 's all that counts . Understand ? Okay . Well , my friend and partne was shot last night and I 'm afte the shitbag that did it . As my partner , I 'm asking you to respect me and help me find him . Jetson considers this several moments , then
JETSON: And as my partner , I ask you to espect me and my desire not to eak with procedure .
SYKES: Nothing 's wrong . I just want to get something straight . You agree that there 's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related , ight ?
JETSON: Well yes , quite possibly .
SYKES: Possibly . Good . Well , would you be willing to accept the theory , George , that possibly by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other ? Does that sound unreasonable to you ?
JETSON: Yes no , it is not unreasonable . Although I
SYKES: Great . Well , I 'm sure glad that 's settled , are n't you ?
JETSON: Have you identified this one ?
SYKES: Fedorchuk could n't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets .
JETSON: Nothing .
SYKES: Nothing ?
JETSON: Should n't we examine their personal effects ?
SYKES: A rubber . A condom . You know Coney Island whitefish ? Men , human men , put them on their , uh penises to protect against having babies . You need this for anything ?
ORTIZ: Nope , got my own . Anything you guys do n't use gets stuffed away in storage .
SYKES: Get the picture ?
JETSON: And that fits ?
SYKES: Well Yeah , it 's rubber . It stretches .
JETSON: And still it fits ?
SYKES: What is this stuff ?
JETSON: It is a resin .
SYKES: How the hell do you know that ?
JETSON: A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us . My spouse 's brother is one .
SYKES: So the Slag they 're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery . I 'd say that `` possible '' connection etween the two cases just got a hell of a lot more possible . Okay , next step I got ta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owne lown away last night .
JETSON: I believe I should interview the widow alone .
SYKES: Why the hell ? ! Great , fine . You talk to the wife .
O'NEAL: Mr. Hubley was an all right guy and a damn good manager . The men liked him . I 'm really gon na have to scramble to fill his shoes .
SYKES: Well , one of the men did n't like him so much
O'NEAL: You think this is the guy who did it ?
SYKES: We think he could ' a been involved , yeah . You know him ?
O'NEAL: To be honest , it 's hard to say . I hate to admit it but they all still kinda look alike to me .
SYKES: Who else can I ask around here ?
O'NEAL: Wait . You know who it looks like ? Yeah . Anderson . Uh James Anderson . He is n't in today . He took the afternoon off .
SYKES: I think you 're gon na find he 's taken the rest of his life off .
O'NEAL: Yes it is . Thirty-five percent pure Methane gas in there . I do n't know how these fellas do it .
SYKES: Jesus . Welcome back Ozzie and Harriet
JETSON: Mrs. Porter is not taking he husband 's death well .
SYKES: Did you learn anything ?
JETSON: A week ago two men came to see he husband . After they left , he was very frightened . She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her . It was Hubley .
SYKES: Aw-right . What about the other guy ?
JETSON: She did n't know him . But she said her son might .
SYKES: Did you talk to him ?
JETSON: He has not been home since that day . But she told me where to find him . Sykes nods .
MAYOR: Our guest speaker tonight has done so much in his community and for his community in such a short period of time . And I must say , as the founder of the first Newcome owned and operated corporation in Southern California , he certainly has come quite far in the last few years . Granted , not as far as he came in the years before reaching Los Angeles .
HARCOURT: Thank you all for that very warm eception . I 'm particularly grateful because I actually had the gall to write that in my notes `` Thank you all for that very warm reception '' . Imagine how embarrassed I would 've been if it had n't have been such a warm eception .
SYKES: William Harcourt ?
HARCOURT: Yes
SYKES: I 'm Sergeant Sykes , and this is Detective Jetson , Los Angeles Police Department .
HARCOURT: Sergeant Detective . I was n't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet .
JETSON: I am the first .
HARCOURT: Congratulations . This is my administrative assistant , Rudyard Kipling .
SYKES: Rudyard Kipling ? No shit ? Listen , we just need a minute of your time
JETSON: We 'd like to ask you about a usiness associate of your , Warren Hubley .
HARCOURT: Yes , I heard about poor Warren . Tragic .
SYKES: You were partners with him on some Slag uh , Newcomer real estate thing .
HARCOURT: That 's right . He and I , along with seven or eight others . Listen , gentlemen , I will be happy to assist you in any way I can unfortunately , at the moment , I 'm overdue at another function . Suddenly there 's a voice from O.S .
MAYOR: William , I was wondering if you would n't rather ride with Luisa and me . Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic , we 're bound to be later than we already are .
HARCOURT: Excellent idea . Ray , I wonder if you know two of your police officers Detective Jetson and Sykes .
MAYOR: A pleasure . We really should be going .
HARCOURT: Please feel free to call my office Monday morning for an appointment . Congratulations again on you promotion , Detective . Remember you 're out there setting an example in our community . I 'll be keeping an eye on you .
KIPLING: That cop , the human , he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver .
HARCOURT: This is becoming a serious breach of security .
KIPLING: He did n't recognize me .
HARCOURT: It is his new partner that I 'm worried about .
SYKES: Go on ahead . I 'll be right in . What 'd you dig up for me ?
MAFFET: You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find Well , this is it .
SYKES: What is it ?
MAFFET: Casull .454 Magnum . You 're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads .
SYKES: Only holds five .
MAFFET: Yeah , the shells are too big for six in an cylinder . Hell , Matt , you do n't need but one .
SYKES: No two .
JETSON: Why did you do it ?
SYKES: Why 'd I do what ?
JETSON: Agree to work with me ? You do n't like me you do n't like any of us . You have nothing but contempt fo us . And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner
SYKES: My partner is dead ! Because one of you bastards killed him then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown , where he 's home and dry , 'cause nobody sees nothing , nobody says nothing
VOICE: Who wants to know ? Sykes squints into the darkness , then
SYKES: Who said that ?
JETSON: At the end of the bar . Sykes nods , starts in that direction .
SYKES: My name is Sykes . I 'm
ALIEN VOICE: Ss'ai k'ss ?
OFFENDER: Careful , ss'loka ' , you might hurt yourself .
SYKES: You Porter ?
JETSON: No , Matthew . I believe this is the one you want .
SYKES: Your name would n't happen to be Porter , would it ?
JETSON: Uh , Matthew
SYKES: Back off , George .
JETSON: But I .
SYKES: I 'll handle it . Jetson backs off , letting him handle it .
PORTER: Ss'kya'ta ' .
SYKES: What 's that ?
JETSON: Screw you .
SYKES: Screw me ? That ca n't be right .
PORTER: Ss'kya ta ' ss'loka ' . Ss'trokya ' ss'lato na ' !
JETSON: You do n't want to know .
SYKES: Tell me .
JETSON: Your mother mates out of season .
SYKES: That 's very colorful . But see now I 've got a problem . I do n't seem to be getting much cooperation from you , Porter . So I guess we 're gon na have to take this little session down to my office , ya know ?
JETSON: Matthew , you do n't have to .
SYKES: Stay back ! I 'm okay .
PORTER: Do n't they teach you anything about us in cop school , little ss'loka ' ?
JETSON: Enough .
PORTER: Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa ' . You 're a cop . It fits you .
SYKES: You know that guy ?
JETSON: From quarantine , when my people first arrived here . He and I were housed together .
SYKES: How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him ?
JETSON: In the camps , we were lodged four to a room . The selection process was entirely random . We did not get to stay with our friends o families
PORTER: I told you I was in the back of the store . I just heard voices , muffled like .
SYKES: One of the two men was Hubley , ight ? What about the other one ? Did you know him ?
PORTER: Yeah I seen him around . High- oller dude named Strader . Joshua Strader . Runs a club on the west side . Encounters .
SYKES: Yeah , I heard of it .
PORTER: That 's all I know . You want anything more , you ask somebody else .
JETSON: I am sorry about your father .
SYKES: Yeah , sure . I knew that
KID: Six forty-two .
SYKES: I do n't think I could ever learn to ead that shit . How long did it take you to learn English ?
JETSON: Three months . We learn quickly . We adapt . It is our strength what we were bred for , to adapt to hostile environments .
SYKES: My neighbor 's kid has a Newcome girl in his class . She 's six years old and in seventh grade already They climb into the car .
JETSON: This is mole . It 's good .
SYKES: I 'll bet . Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two ?
JETSON: Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked . Jetson looks over at him , smiling .
SYKES: Oh , that 's real attractive . You got fur in your teeth , George . Come on , man , we 're gon na be talking to people jeez .
JETSON: Ss'loka ' . It means literally `` small ut intelligent creature '' . It loses much in the translation .
SYKES: And what was that one about my mother ? That was a good one .
JETSON: Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na ' .
SYKES: Yeah , that 's it . Say it slow .
JETSON: You are Cassandra ?
CASSANDRA: That 's right .
JETSON: We are with the Police Department . This is Sergeant Sykes , and I am
CASSANDRA: Ss'ai k'ss ? Perfect .
SYKES: We 're looking for your boss Strader .
CASSANDRA: He 's not here . Why ask me ?
JETSON: The young woman at the front said you might know where he is .
CASSANDRA: She did , did she ? Well , she was wrong . Excuse me , I have to change .
SYKES: No problem .
CASSANDRA: Oooh . Hardball . That sounds interesting . Are you going to strike me ? You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me I 've got my own ropes .
SYKES: Does that cost extra or you throw them in ?
CASSANDRA: You 've got me all wrong . I do n't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable
JETSON: I am going out to the car . I will meet you there .
CASSANDRA: Look , I do n't know where Mr. Strader might be . He comes and he goes .
SYKES: The girl out front mentioned Strader 's assistant , somebody named Watson . Maybe he knows .
CASSANDRA: Todd ? Todd does n't know either .
SYKES: Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later .
CASSANDRA: A virgin . I find that very arousing
SYKES: There 's lots of things I have n't done , but his ai n't high on the list . Do n't take it personally .
CASSANDRA: I think you 're just a little scared now , about what you might find once the lights go out . A little scared and a lot curious . Maybe more than you want to admit . But does n't that turn you on , that curiosity and fear , swirling together ? Think of it as broadening you horizons .
SYKES: I like my horizons narrow .
CASSANDRA: Your voice is saying no , but you ody is saying yes . He quickly disengages from her .
SYKES: My voice , body , and everything else is saying I 'll be back in two hours for Strader , and he better damn well e here .
JETSON: Todd Watson . The assistant manager .
WATSON: I do n't believe this . Look at my suit . Look at what you made me do to my car .
SYKES: Your girlfriend put up a bette fight than you did , pal .
JETSON: We are looking for your employer , Joshua Strader .
WATSON: He 's out of town .
JETSON: Why did you run ?
WATSON: Because you two were chasing me .
SYKES: We were chasing you because you ran , you dumb son-of-a-bitch .
JETSON: When will Strader return ?
WATSON: Who knows . He 's the boss he does n't have to check in with me .
SYKES: Watson this is my partner here 's first coupla days , and he wants to make a good impression . Me , though , the way I feel this could be my last day , know what I mean ? And I 'm eady to rain on you like a cow pissin ' on a flat rock .
WATSON: Look Mr. Strader has n't been around for a coupla days . He did n't tell me where he was going or when he 'd be back . I swear it .
SYKES: What do you think ?
JETSON: I believe he is probably lying .
SYKES: Through his ass . Next time you see him , tell him to call me unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes .
QUINT: Okay , scrape him up .
HARCOURT: Any progress ?
QUINT: My arm 's gettin ' tired and so far , zip .
KIPLING: He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to Strader .
QUINT: What 's that mean ?
KIPLING: Duty-bonded . His allegiance to Strader is above pain or life .
QUINT: You tellin ' me this guy would die efore he 'd screw his boss and work for us ? Nobody 's that dumb .
KIPLING: It is something you could n't comprehend , Quint .
HARCOURT: I understand you have been resisting my offer Mr. Watson . Your sense of duty to Mr. Strader is noble , but no longer an issue , I 'm afraid
WATSON: Sss ' k ' a ta ' !
HARCOURT: It is such a pity to die for an outmoded value . Mr. Quint , I believe it 's time fo our friend 's swimming lesson .
QUINT: You never seen this before , have you , Billy ? oh , man , you ai n't gon na believe it seawater is like attery acid to these guys I do n't know what it is , some kinds chemical reaction . Whatta you think it is , Watson ? Whoa , hold him . What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it 's going to come until it whoops , got a little wet there .
KIPLING: When we picked him up , he was talking to those two cops the two who came to question you about Hubley .
HARCOURT: This is getting out of hand . I want you to deal with it . Immediately .
JETSON: Would you mind ?
SYKES: So , she keeps you on a pretty short leash , does she ?
JETSON: My wife ? She worries about me .
SYKES: Yeah I know the routine .
JETSON: You are married ?
SYKES: Was . Divorced .
JETSON: We mate for life . Divorce is a strange concept to us .
SYKES: It 's like having an eleventh finge emoved . It hurts like hell , but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place .
JETSON: Your home is quite disordered . I thought perhaps you had been urglarized when I walked in .
SYKES: I appreciate your honesty , George .
JETSON: Human children can be very eautiful . Getting married ? Congratulations . You will be taking Sunday off , then
SYKES: Maybe not I do n't know . I 'm not sure I 'm gon na go . She does n't need her burn-out of a father there
JETSON: I must show you And this is Richard . My son . He 's four years old . We named him afte the former President , Richard Nixon .
SYKES: You open to a piece of advice ? Tell people you named him after Richard Burton , the actor . Just take my word for it .
JETSON: In the other man 's rectum .
SYKES: Sticking out of his ass yeah ! See , that 's what makes it a joke . There 's like a surprise , and you mind fills in the funny picture . Here 's this guy with a pen stuck in his ass and he thinks it 's a thermometer . Nada , huh ?
JETSON: Ta ss'trakyona ' They CLACK glasses , and
SYKES: No shit , Holmes . You 're only from another goddamn planet , fo chrissakes .
JETSON: You humans are very curious to us . You invite us to live among you , in an atmosphere of equality we 've never known before . You lay before us a beautiful green world , full of freedoms and opportunities You give us ownership of our lives fo the first time and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves to live by the rules ules that are n't made to keep one people subordinate to another , but ules that exist to preserve equality . You aspire to very high ideals here .
SYKES: Do n't count on me , George . I neve had any ideals .
JETSON: We do n't understand the hatred , the contempt . But we must bear it we must not react in anger because our situation here is still fragile . The separationists would see us eturned to the quarantine camps . The fundamentalists say we have no more human rights than dogs or cats . But the prejudice we face here is so insignificant compared to the pain that we 've known before . And that is why we are so grateful .
SYKES: Yeah , well except I did hear you eat your dead . Jetson looks at him a long beat , then
JETSON: Only on Fridays .
SYKES: You son-of-a-bitch . You 're okay . Jetson stands unsteadily , and announces
JETSON: I 'm going home .
SYKES: Yeah , go home . Get some sleep . You do sleep , do n't you ?
JETSON: Hold this . I feel very terrible .
SYKES: Where 'd you get this ? ! !
JETSON: A man , a human , was wiring it to your car . I did n't get a good look at him . I must call my wife
SYKES: George , she 's not gon na divorce you . You mate for life , remember ?
JETSON: She 's very progressive . I 'm certain she 's considering it .
SECRETARY: You guys are looking for somebody named Strader , right ?
SYKES: Yeah .
SECRETARY: Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in . They found him . Or at least what 's left of him , washed up on the beach at Zuma . Sykes and Jetson react again .
SYKES: Well , let 's roll , George .
JETSON: To the to the beach ?
SYKES: Come on , let 's go , dude . Surf 's up !
JETSON: Thank you .
FEDORCHUK: Found his wallet in his jacket pocket . Joshua Strader , big as life .
CORONER'S TECH: Jesus , what a mess . It 's gon na be a ear to make a positive determination , but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink . At least twice here , and here .
SYKES: How 're you two doing on Tuggle 's killer ?
ALTEREZ: The store owner 's son is in a street gang , so now we 're thinking maybe it 's gang related .
SYKES: Yeah , that 's real good . You guys follow up on that for a coupla months .
FEDORCHUK: Look at your dildo partner . He 's too scared to even come down to the sand . You 're not gon na get wet standing here , moron !
SYKES: I 'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid , Fedorchuk see how much surfin ' you 'd do .
FEDORCHUK: Well , if it is n't Detective Jetson . Forget you hip waders , big guy ?
SYKES: Lay off , asshole .
FEDORCHUK: I may be an asshole , but at least I 'm a real detective , not some oute shit space thing .
SYKES: Yeah ? you 're a real honest-to-god detective ?
JETSON: What was that about ?
SYKES: Nothing . On Jetson 's confused expression , we
JETSON: Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery Joshua Strader operated a successful ba and nightclub
SYKES: and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart . So what the hell 's the connection ?
JETSON: Is Bentner here ? I must speak with him .
SYKES: What kind of test ?
JETSON: It is nothing .
SYKES: What 's this nothing shit ? It was n't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits , and it 's not nothing now . Do n't lie to me , George , you 're bad at it .
JETSON: You must leave me alone on this .
SYKES: No , see , I do n't leave you alone I 'm your partner . I do n't work that way Tug did n't work that way .
JETSON: No . I can not involve you . This is not your concern .
SYKES: The hell it is n't , when somebody wires up enough C-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist ! That Slag was on something , and not sour milk , either ? Am I right ? TELL ME ! What is it ?
JETSON: It is called ss'jabroka ' . To us it is a potent narcotic .
SYKES: How potent ?
JETSON: Like your cocaine , I suppose . The `` high '' lasts several hours . We would receive small amounts of it as a reward for our labor .
SYKES: We ? You 've taken it ?
JETSON: We all did .
SYKES: Where did he get it ? Was there any of it on the ship ?
JETSON: No I am sure not . That is why I am so concerned someone must now e producing it here . But none of my people know how to make it . The process was carefully guarded .
SYKES: Jesus , this is major . Why did n't you tell me sooner ? Why 'd you hold out on me ?
JETSON: Your people do n't know about this part of out past . And they ca n't know It would threaten our entire existence here .
SYKES: George look me in the eye George , you do n't ever lie to me again .
JETSON: I must trust you , Matthew . I can not stop this without you .
SYKES: George ? How about you drive
OPERATOR: Here 's Hubley . Left Quarantine on Novembe thirtieth , relocated first to Riverside , then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year . Field of expertise chemical manufacturing . Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the efinery .
SYKES: Try Joshua Strader , will ya , darlin ' ?
OPERATOR: For you , anything .
JETSON: Now the store owner , please . Cecil Porter . She types it in .
OPERATOR: Released December one . He and his wife moved first to Modesto , then Coalinga , California whereve that is settled in L.A. in April . Field of expertise organic chemical engineering . He and his wife have one child , a son .
SYKES: Yeah we met him . Wonderful oy close personal friend of George 's here .
OPERATOR: I 'm sorry , Matt . Nothing here seems to be matching up
SYKES: Holy shit Look what we 're staring at three Newcomers with nothing in common , ight ? What if it 's just one othe guy who killed these three ? Three and one make four . Fou Newcomers of totally different ackgrounds You and the store owner 's son that punker !
JETSON: Quarantine . Sykes spins to the Operator , excited .
SYKES: Can you dig up their Quarantine ecords in this thing ?
OPERATOR: Sure . Just a minute .
HARCOURT: Quite lovely What is your name again ?
CASSANDRA: Cassandra .
HARCOURT: I will have to remember that
JETSON: They had months in quarantine to develop the plan . Porter , with his chemistry background , must have somehow come up with the formula fo the drug . Hubley manufactured it at the refinery . Strader , through the nightclub , established a distribution network . And Harcourt
SYKES: Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together .
JETSON: If the drug is here , we must destroy it .
SYKES: No , George you 're missing the point . The drug is evidence . We need to have the evidence , ya know ?
O'NEAL: Hey , what are you , crazy ? ! You ca n't come in here like this ! Hey ! Sykes reaches the doorway , stops and stares .
SYKES: So much for playing it smart
JETSON: Where is the drug ? Where have they taken it ?
O'NEAL: What drug ? This is an oil refinery , you
O'NEAL: You ca n't do this !
SYKES: George , uh you 're gon na break his little chest bones
JETSON: Stay out of this , Matthew . Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall .
SYKES: Do n't piss him off , O'Neal . When he gets like this , I ca n't control him . I 've seen this before . He got like this once I saw him jerk a guy 's spine out and show it to him . Nothing I could do . I hadda go throw up .
O'NEAL: They took the stuff out , all of it this afternoon .
JETSON: How much ?
O'NEAL: About fifty kilos of concentrate and some street grade in tubes .
JETSON: Where have they taken it ?
O'NEAL: Encount Encounters Club .
SYKES: George , c'mon lighten up . It 's a beauty of a case . Do n't sweat it we got him by the short hairs . He ai n't gon na make any more of the shit .
JETSON: The fifty kilos , Matthew . I have to find it . I ca n't let it get out on the street .
SYKES: Why ? What 's the big goddamn deal ?
JETSON: Fuck procedure .
SYKES: Hey ! !
JETSON: I am here to take Harcourt . Where is he ?
CASSANDRA: In there .
JETSON: Show me .
HARCOURT: It 's been a long time , has n't it , gentlemen ?
HUMAN DEALER: What is it ?
HARCOURT: A sweet indulgence from out past esurrected for our future .
ALIEN DEALER: Where 'd you get it ?
HARCOURT: I arranged to spend some time with three very resourceful men . With a certain amount of coaxing , one of them was able to reconstitute the formula for me . They worked very well together . Unfortunately , they are no longe with us but I was fortunate enough to reap the benefit of thei endeavor .
HUMAN DEALER: Let me try some . Jesus ! Tastes like detergent !
HARCOURT: And that 's all the effect it will have on you . But when my fellow Newcomers learn they can obtain it here , they will work very hard to make as much money as they can to give it to me .
VOICE: You have n't told him all of it .
QUINT: He 's got the C-4 charge !
HARCOURT: If you release that button , you not only kill us , but yourself .
JETSON: To get you and that I would do it .
HARCOURT: One small matter seems to have escaped your attention . That is not on any books as a controlled substance . Legally it might as well be fifty kilos of grape jelly .
JETSON: The charge is murder and conspiracy to commit murder . Hubley , Porter , Strader probably others .
CASSANDRA: You you killed Strader ?
HARCOURT: Todd ? Who is Todd . Ah , poor Mr. Watson .
JETSON: NOOO !
KIPLING: I got it !
HARCOURT: Kill them both .
KIPLING: Here ?
HARCOURT: Do it !
ALIEN DEALER: Do n't shoot , man we 're unarmed look !
SYKES: You okay ?
CASSANDRA: Yeah And he charges out the adjoining office door .
HARCOURT: Here !
JETSON: This way !
SYKES: Shit !
JETSON: Ss-ai !
SYKES: Move your goddamned cars !
JETSON: There !
SYKES: Move a finger , Harcourt , and you 're history
HARCOURT: No , Sergeant not history Eternity
JETSON: With Harcourt and Kipling dead , I assume you will be requesting eassignment now .
SYKES: It 'd be for your own good . I think you 'd be better off with a partne who 's a little more by the book . Still , I got ta tell you , George , for a quiet guy , you 're sure hell on wheels once you get going . I 'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective .
WILTEY: I 'll give you guys a lift to the station . They 're waiting to take your statements on the shootings .
SYKES: Let 's go , partner . And it 's shooting . Singular .
WILTEY: They said two .
SYKES: Nope . I did n't shoot Harcourt he o.d . 'd .
DRIVER: So it 's just me and her left in the hot tub , right ?
ATTENDANT: You and the blonde ?
DRIVER: No , man , the redhead . The blonde 's gone in the house with some othe guy . But a few minutes later she comes back out , alone , when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub , ya know and she sees us , and she climbs right in with us
ATTENDANT: You 're full of shit !
DRIVER: I swear it ! If I 'm lyin ' , I 'm dyin '
JETSON: You are certain this is the route they would have taken ?
WILTEY: I 'm not positive but probably .
SYKES: What 's this about , George ? I know that look .
JETSON: There ! Go back . Down that side street .
SYKES: Do what ? ! George ? ! Jetson is already sliding out of the car .
WILTEY: Oh , God Sykes and Jetson look .
JETSON: Wiltey , no .
SYKES: What is this ? !
JETSON: It 's Harcourt .
SYKES: Harcourt is dead .
JETSON: No he 's not . Not if he overdosed on the drug . Massive amounts trigger a a change . Your body functions seize up , you appear to be dead , but it 's eally a state of incubation . When you emerge you 're
SYKES: Tell me about it
SYKES: I never thought I 'd say this , but for once in my life I think I 'm willing to wait for back-up .
JETSON: We ca n't let him get away .
SYKES: Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up ?
JETSON: Because because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming .
SYKES: But there 's no more drug .
JETSON: You understand that . But how many others will ?
WILTEY: There he is !
JETSON: Wiltey !
HARCOURT: Looking for me , Sergeant ?
JETSON: On that boat out there !
CAPTAIN: Hey !
JETSON: Take it down ! Take it down !
PILOT: I CA N'T IT 'LL DITCH !
JETSON: Take it up !
PILOT: What the hell was that down there ? It was weird .
SYKES: Looked like every other damn slag to me . Just plain ugly . Despite the pain , Jetson smiles .
JETSON: You look very good .
KRISTIN: Ready , Daddy ?
SYKES: George , uh I want to apologize now , in advance , for all the rotten things I 'll ever say or do to you over the years .
JETSON: That is all right , Matthew . Afte all , you are only human . Sykes , caught off guard , has to laugh .
SYKES: What a wildman
CASSIE: Better tell the boss . PARSONS pulls out a coin .
PARSONS: Toss you for it .
HIROKO: Fuck ! Holo off .
URIOSTE: You did n't wipe your feet coming in .
KAMEN: Just got back . Missed anything ? URIOSTE Yeah . We 're almost out of beer .
PARSONS: Where 'd you leave them ?
CASSIE: MarsCo went belly-up on the Dow Jones .
KAMEN: Shit . When ?
CASSIE: You win some , you loose some .
HIROKO: What 've you got ?
HIROKO: Sounds like a couple of escape shuttles .
PARSONS: That 's what we thought .
PARSONS: Done it already . Nothing matches .
KAMEN: Jesus .
KAMEN: Tactical nukes , maybe ?
HIROKO: Where 're they headed ?
PARSONS: Fort Powell . What do we tell 'em ?
MINH: Crazy idiots .
MINH: Thanks .
GUTTIEREZ: You offering ?
DILLER: Nah . Freeze my dick off .
DILLER: Miss Noguchi ! You 're wanted in admin .
HIROKO: Thanks . She turns back to KAMEN .
HIROKO: Can we move it to a different orbit in time ?
PARSONS: Already working on it .
PARSONS: Can you patch me a temporary loop on DCMGS ?
CASSIE: Okay , give me the numbers .
PARSONS: They 've changed their heading again .
HIROKO: Compensate !
PARSONS: Punch me in a solution for their delta-vee .
CASSIE: What do you need ?
PARSONS: A three-second burn to port , on my mark .
CASSIE: It 's on the board .
HIROKO: Match it !
PARSONS: Not gon na make it
YORK: Shit ! What 's that ?
ACKLAND: Meteor , I guess .
YORK: Do you wan na head back and call it in ? ACKLAND
KAMEN: Hey , boss . Wondered where you 'd gotten to .
KAMEN: Not too much of the socializing type , then ?
KAMEN: Is that a fact .
HIROKO: Four .
KAMEN: And before that ?
HIROKO: Six month stint on Datus .
KAMEN: Only six ?
HIROKO: What is this ? 'Twenty Questions ' ?
KAMEN: What is that ?
HIROKO: Real man ' drink .
KAMEN: Seltzer ?
HIROKO: Want some ?
KAMEN: I 'll stick with my own .
HIROKO: Any luck raising Ackland 's party ?
KAMEN: 'We ' ? You wan na fly out there with me ?
HIROKO: Sure . Do me good to stretch my legs .
HIROKO: Do you think Ackland 'll sit tight ?
ACKLAND: Found anything ?
YORK: Nada . No radiation no movement nothing .
YORK: What is it ?
ACKLAND: It 's a rhino .
YORK: Is it dead ?
YORK: Yeah , it 's fine .
YORK: I told you we what 's that ?
YORK: Bloody big if it is . Top 's open .
YORK: Let 's get back and call this in .
ACKLAND: Wait a minute .
YORK: What is that is that metal fragments ? ACKLAND 's maybe getting a little nervous now .
ACKLAND: This is very fucking weird .
YORK: Another one ? ACKLAND prods this SECOND EGG with his gun .
ACKLAND: Yeah . This 's closed .
YORK: Oh , God ; oh , shit ; oh , God .
BEAUVAIS: Jesus Christ ! What happened ?
YORK: Give me a hand with Ack . She races over to help YORK ease ACKLAND up .
BEAUVAIS: How bad is oh my God .
BEAUVAIS: Have you tried prising it off ? YORK shakes his head .
MINH: Oh man
BEAUVAIS: Minh
MINH: Yep
BEAUVAIS: How do you know it 's not already ?
KAMEN: Wake up . We 're at the beacon .
KAMEN: Okay . Watch were you point it
HIROKO: Check out the tent .
KAMEN: Jesus palomino
REVNA: Is this it ?
GUTTIEREZ: What 's the problem ?
GUTTIEREZ: Give me twenty minutes and I 'll do it myself .
KAMEN: Appreciate that . REVNA interrupts .
REVNA: Where 're the bodies ?
KAMEN: Agreed .
HIROKO: What do you mean ?
URIOSTE: Sorry . Can I have a word ?
HIROKO: Sure . What 's up ?
KAMEN: Think I spoke too soon
HIROKO: Can you handle it ?
CASSIE: I 'll go along with that .
PARSONS: Parsons . Yeah . Hold on .
ACKLAND: Hey , c'mon Doc , I feel fine . Really . REVNA flicks off the probe .
REVNA: Headache ? Dehydration ?
ACKLAND: The head 's okay , but I could sink a six-pack .
KAMEN: What happened out there , Ack ? ACKLAND
ACKLAND: We watched a meteor hit over Linson 's .
HIROKO: A meteor ?
KAMEN: Nothing else ?
ACKLAND: No . KAMEN turns to REVNA .
KAMEN: Show him 'Fido ' .
REVNA: Ring any bells ?
ACKLAND: What did York say ?
HIROKO: York 's vanished .
ACKLAND: Vanished ?
ACKLAND: Can I um have some water ? Please ?
REVNA: Sure . She goes to fetch a cup .
KAMEN: Do you believe him ?
GUTTIEREZ: Got a present for you . He hands HIROKO 's leather jacket over to her .
KAMEN: And ?
GUTTIEREZ: And , nothing . They checked out just fine .
CASSIE: Rhinos look a little antsy ,
DILLER: Yeah . Never seem 'em act like this before .
CASSIE: Do you hear that ?
DILLER: Yeah
CASSIE: I do n't believe it .
CASSIE: Wait a minute
ACKLAND: Oh . Oh God REVNA lowers her pen and looks across .
REVNA: What is it ?
REVNA: Do you want a tablet ?
ACKLAND: Uh-huh .
ACKLAND: Yeah
HIROKO: What happened ?
HIROKO: Force the door .
DILLER: Ca n't . It 's pressure sealed .
GUTTIEREZ: Here
DILLER: Thanks .
HIROKO: Get after it , do n't let it get away !
CASSIE: Oh my God
HIROKO: What is that ?
HIROKO: Where does that lead to ?
HIROKO: You 've checked that end ?
GUTTIEREZ: Not yet , no .
DILLER: Okay .
HIROKO: So , what do you think ?
DE VRIES: C'mon , man . One more sweep .
DE VRIES: Listen to that
GUTTIEREZ: Listen to what ?
GUTTIEREZ: De Vries ?
DE VRIES: Yeah ?
DE VRIES: Something spooking the rhinos ?
GUTTIEREZ: I dunno .
DILLER: What is thatis that it ?
DILLER: The room 's clean .
URIOSTE: Great .
GUTTIEREZ: That 's real peculiar behavior . DE VRIES fingers a rough metal edge .
DE VRIES: Hey , Guttierez ?
GUTTIEREZ: What ?
DE VRIES: Take a look at this .
GUTTIEREZ: One of 'em must have escaped .
GUTTIEREZ: There 's no way a rhino 'd survive that drop .
GUTTIEREZ: That 's a fact .
DE VRIES: What ?
GUTTIEREZ: Just got a reading
KAMEN: How 's it going ?
PARSONS: Yeah , 'Good Evening ' to you , too .
KAMEN: You should hit the sack , too .
KAMEN: What time 's sundown ?
PARSONS: 'Bout five minutes .
KAMEN: Give me a yell is something happens .
PARSONS: You got it , cowboy .
GUTTIEREZ: It 's up there somewhere He shoulders his rifle .
DE VRIES: What ? Are you nuts ? Just the two of us ?
DE VRIES: Forget it , man .
GUTTIEREZ: C'mon De Vries . Think of the bonus .
DE VRIES: Wait a minute ! GUTTIEREZ stops climbing .
GUTTIEREZ: What ?
DE VRIES: I 'll come with you .
GUTTIEREZ: Anything you say , Mammacitta .
DE VRIES: Careful of that edging there
GUTTIEREZ: Yeah , I got it .
DE VRIES: Where 's that flashlight ?
HIROKO: Alright . Keep your eyes peeled . She voices her concern to KAMEN .
GUTTIEREZ: Hold it , hold it
DE VRIES: What 's wrong ?
GUTTIEREZ: I 'm picking up another signal . DE VRIES looks around , unnerved .
DE VRIES: What ? Where ?
GUTTIEREZ: Just behind us , over to the right .
DE VRIES: Ca n't see a thing . Are you sure ?
GUTTIEREZ: Yeah , I
DE VRIES: How ?
GUTTIEREZ: I dunno . Might be a glitch .
DE VRIES: Oh , man . That 's no glitch !
GUTTIEREZ: It 's alright , it 's cool
DE VRIES: Is it still moving ?
DILLER: Annie !
GUTTIEREZ: The hell was that ?
KAMEN: Kev , wha ?
PARSONS: Oh my God
HIROKO: Move ! Get out of the way !
PREDATOR: No !
THOMAS: Come on , man . Leave it alone .
GUTTIEREZ: Oh , God . Dear Lord Jesus
KAMEN: I 'll survive .
DE VRIES: What 's with the dog ?
KAMEN: Jan !
DE VRIES: Get out of there , man !
THOMAS: Catch this !
GUTTIEREZ: Chew on this !
HIROKO: Oh my God
CASSIE: Shit .
GUTTIEREZ: De Vries !
THOMAS: Yo ' momma , boneface ! DE VRIES C'mon , man ; punch this cow !
HIROKO: What ?
KAMEN: I 'm out of ammo . Get inside , get inside !
HIROKO: They 're in with the rhino !
DE VRIES: Jesus !
PARSONS: Seal everything now !
CASSIE: What 's happening ?
PARSONS: Cassie , thank Christ ! We 're under attack .
CASSIE: We 're what ! ? York races in , SHOUTING above the clamor .
CASSIE: How many of them are there ?
PARSONS: Too many .
DE VRIES: Over there , on the right !
THOMAS: These bastards ai n't so tough !
GUTTIEREZ: Shit ! The casing 's cracked !
DE VRIES: Use mine . Channel twenty-six .
GUTTIEREZ: What ?
THOMAS: We 've got company !
DE VRIES: I 'm jammed !
THOMAS: You 're what ? ! She works the manual slide .
DE VRIES: It 's locked solid
THOMAS: Quick , give me the clip !
HIROKO: Holo on !
KAMEN: Come on !
HIROKO: That 's the wrong way !
KAMEN: Detour . Other way 's blocked
DE VRIES: You got any slugs left ?
GUTTIEREZ: Yeah . Uh
THOMAS: Yes !
DE VRIES: Try again , man
DE VRIES: That 's it ! We 're dead !
GUTTIEREZ: Move !
MATT: Close it up , close it up !
HIROKO: Hurry it up .
KAMEN: Do n't wait for me !
YORK: Jesus Christ ! He SHOUTS back into the crowded room .
HIROKO: Cassie ! CASSIE 's head shoots around .
YORK: Hurry up , we 're losing it ! CASSIE 's eyes widen in terror
CASSIE: Behind you !
HIROKO: Kamen !
CASSIE: It 's too late !
HIROKO: Nooooo !
YORK: It 's going !
PARSONS: Miss Noguchi ? No reaction . He tries again .
HIROKO: What 's the story ? PARSONS runs through each of the screens .
HIROKO: How many how many people are missing ?
HIROKO: What 's our weapons situation ?
HIROKO: Auto-shop ?
HIROKO: Has anybody talked to them ?
CASSIE: Not yet .
HIROKO: Do it .
DRISCOLL: What the hell ?
HIROKO: They knocked out the external feeds .
PARSONS: Looks like it .
CASSIE: Thirty six hours ? PARSONS nods .
PARSONS: Give or take .
CASSIE: We 're not gon na make it , are we ?
HIROKO: Get the auto-shop on-line . PARSONS shakes his head .
HIROKO: Well try the headset .
GREASE MONKEY: Yo ! Guttierez !
PARSONS: Through now .
CASSIE: Oh , man
YORK: Oh yeah ? Like what ?
HIROKO: Which mean physically going outside . DRISCOLL looks around uneasily .
DRISCOLL: Yeah .
HIROKO: Is this the suit ?
DRISCOLL: Uh-huh .
CASSIE: Shut up , York .
REDHEADED GIRL: I have .
HIROKO: Let me have the keys .
YORK: Oh , yeah . Real inconspicuous
DRISCOLL: No , go back . Second clasp from the bottom .
HIROKO: How much air-time have I got ?
HIROKO: Deal .
HIROKO: Sounds great .
HIROKO: What ? Why ?
HIROKO: How tight are these shafts ? CASSIE and DRISCOLL exchange worried looks .
PARSONS: There 's still time to back-out .
PARSONS: Do n't lose it .
HIROKO: Do n't worry . I wo n't .
DRISCOLL: Here . If you got to use 'em , make 'em count .
HIROKO: Thanks .
HIROKO: Right . Okay , I 'm set .
CASSIE: All clear
HIROKO: Okay . Okay .
CASSIE: Are you alright ?
PARSONS: What ? What 's wrong ? What is it ?
HIROKO: It 's alright . I 'm okay .
PARSONS: Seal it .
YORK: Suicide run , man . Fuckin ' suicide run .
HIROKO: Thanks , Cassie . CASSIE Do n't mention it .
GREASE MONKEY: Okay . Back . Back . Little bit more
GUTTIEREZ: She just set off !
MATT: Okay , people . Let 's hustle
THOMAS: They 're comin ' up through the pit !
DE VRIES: Over there !
THOMAS: Mother-fucker !
HIROKO: You betcha .
PARSONS: What is it ?
GIRL: Auto-shop .
GUTTIEREZ: Rob ? We got problems .
PARSONS: Where is she ?
CASSIE: Comin ' up the Central Reservoir .
CASSIE: I found it
PARSONS: And ?
CASSIE: Drains right into the Central Reservoir .
PARSONS: Get her on-line . Now !
HIROKO: What was that ? I do n't copy .
CASSIE: I ca n't reach her . Too much signal break-up .
PARSONS: Keep trying !
HIROKO: Come on
PARSONS: We copy , boss . Nice going .
PARSONS: Driscoll ; you 're up . DRISCOLL 's moving even as PARSONS speaks .
DRISCOLL: I hear you
HIROKO: Access panel access panel
PARSONS: Right . Auto-shop , you all set ?
HIROKO: Alright . Here we go
PARSONS: Blow those suckers , Driscoll !
DRISCOLL: Bolts blown !
HIROKO: No !
GUTTIEREZ: Shit !
MATT: Yee-haa ! Demolition derby , baby !
DE VRIES: Hotter ' n hell out there !
PARSONS: Okay , people . Hold on tight
GUTTIEREZ: Take the wheel , Roy !
DE VRIES: C'mon , man ! Let 's shag it !
HIROKO: Rob , it 's Hiroko . Come in .
CASSIE: Hiroko , it 's Cassie . What 's HIROKO 's VOICE interrupts . HIROKO I 've lost the bike and I 'm cut-off .
HIROKO: No 'buts ' . Just do it . Noguchi out .
DE VRIES: Nice buns
GUTTIEREZ: Can you handle it ? DE VRIES powers-up the console .
DE VRIES: Piece of cake .
DE VRIES: Couple more seconds !
GUTTIEREZ: C'mon sweetheart . Do your stuff
KAMEN: Hiroko
HIROKO: What can I do ?
HIROKO: I I ca n't !
KAMEN: You have to
HIROKO: No !
BROKEN TUSK: Chewonthis !
MATT: Holy shit !
BROKEN TUSK: Nota prettysight And with that , the PREDATOR dies .
HIROKO: Yeah . Why not .
THE END: < /pre
THE END: < /pre
FIRST DRAFT: May 28 , 1985
LEADER: Internal pressure positive . Assume nominal hull integrity . Hypersleep capsules , style circa late twenties
RIPLEY: Terrible .
MAN: Nice room . I 'm Burke . Carter Burke . I work for the company , but othe than that I 'm an okay guy . Glad to see you 're feeling better . I 'm told the weakness and disorientation should pass soon . Side effects of the unusually long hypersleep , o something like that .
RIPLEY: How long was I out there ? They wo n't tell me anything .
BURKE: Well , maybe you should n't worry about that just yet . Ripley grabs his arm , surprising him .
RIPLEY: How long ? Burke gazes at her , thoughtful .
BURKE: All right . My instinct says you 're strong enough to handle thisFifty-seven years .
RIPLEY: Fifty-sevenoh , Christ
BURKE: You 'd drifted right through the core systems . It 's blind luck that deep-salvage team caught you when theyare you all right ?
RIPLEY: Nonoooo !
DOCTOR: Hold herGet me an airway , stat ! And fifteen cc 's ofJesus !
RIPLEY: No.. I 've slept enough .
BURKE: SorryI 've been running behind all morning .
RIPLEY: Have they located my daughte yet ?
BURKE: Well , I was going to wait until after the inquest
RIPLEY: Is she ?
BURKE: Amanda Ripley-McClaren . Married name , I guess . Age sixty-six at time of death . Two years ago . I 'm sorry . Ripley studies the PHOTOGRAPH , stunned .
RIPLEY: Amy .
BURKE: Cancer . Hmmmm . They still have n't licked that one . Cremated . Interred Parkside Repository , Little Chute , Wisconsin . No children .
RIPLEY: I promised her I 'd be home fo her birthday . Her eleventh irthday . I sure missed that one . Wellshe has already learned to take my promises with a grain of salt . When it came to flight schedules , anyway . Burke nods , a simpatico presence .
BURKE: The hearing convenes at 0930 . You do n't want to be late .
RIPLEY: You read my depositionit 's complete and accurate .
BURKE: Look , I believe you , but there are going to be some heavyweights in there . You got Feds , you got interstellar commerce commission , you got colonial administration , insurance company guys
RIPLEY: I get the picture .
BURKE: Just tell them what happened . The important thing is to stay cool and unemotional .
RIPLEY: Do you people have earwax , of what ? We have been here three hours . How many different ways do you want me to tell the same story ?
VAN LEUWEN: Look at it from our perspective . You freely admit to detonating the engines of , and thereby destroying , an M-Class star-freighter . A ather expensive piece of hardware
INSURANCE INVESTIGATOR: Forty-two million in adjusted dollars . That 's minus payload , of course .
VAN LEUWEN: The shuttle 's flight recorde corroborates some elements of your account . That the Nostromo set down on LV-426 , an unsurveyed planet , at that time . That epairs were made . That it resumed its course and was subsequently set for self-destruct . By you . Fo easons unknown .
RIPLEY: Look , I told you
VAN LEUWEN: It did not , however , contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up . Ripley sense the noose tightening .
RIPLEY: Then somebody 's gotten to it doctored the recorder . Who had access to it ?
ECA REP: Would you just listen to yourself for one minute .
VAN LEUWEN: The analysis team which went ove your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe
RIPLEY: That 's because I blew it out the Goddamn airlock ! Like I said .
INSURANCE MAN: Are there any species like this 'hostile organism ' on LV-426 ?
ECA REP: No . It 's a rock . No indigenous life larger than a simple virus . Ripley grits her teeth in frustration .
RIPLEY: I told you , it was n't indigenous . There was an alien spacecraft there . A derelict ship . We homed on its eacon
ECA REP: To be perfectly frank , we 've surveyed over three hundred worlds and no one 's ever reported a creature which , using your words 'gestates in a living human host ' and has 'concentrated molecular acid for blood . '
RIPLEY: Look , I can see where this is going . But I 'm telling you those things exist . Back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs . Thousands . Do you understand ? I suggest you find it , using the flight recorder 's data . Find it and deal with it efore one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise
VAN LEUWEN: Thank you , Officer Ripley . That will be
RIPLEY: because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew , within twelve hours of hatching Van Leuwen stands , out of patience .
VAN LEUWEN: Thank you , that will be all .
RIPLEY: That 's not all , Goddamnit ! If those things get back here , that will be all . Then you can just kiss it good-bye , Jack ! Just kiss it goodbye .
BURKE: You had them eating out of you hand , kiddo .
RIPLEY: They had their minds made up efore I even went in there . They think I 'm a head case .
BURKE: You are a head case . Have a donut .
VAN LEUWEN: It is the finding of this board of inquiry that Warrent Officer Ellen Ripley , NOC-14672 . has acted with questionable judgment and is unfit to hold an ICC license as a commercial flight officer .
RIPLEY: Why wo n't you check out LV-426 ?
VAN LEUWEN: Because I do n't have to . The people who live there checked it out years ago and they neve eported and 'hostile organism ' or alien ship . And by the way , they call it Acheron now .
RIPLEY: What are you talking about . What people ?
VAN LEUWEN: Terraformersplanet engineers . It 's what we call a shake ' n ' bake colony . They set up atmosphere processors to make the ai eathablebig job . Takes decades . They 've already been there over twenty years . Peacefully .
RIPLEY: How many colonists ?
VAN LEUWEN: Sixty , maybe seventy families .
RIPLEY: Sweet Jesus .
ELEVATOR PASSENGER: Do you mind ?
LYDECKER: You remember you sent some wildcatters out to that plateau , out past the Ilium ange , a couple days ago ?
SIMPSON: Yeah . What ?
LYDECKER: There 's a guy on the horn , mom-and-pop survey team . Says he 's homing on something and wants to know if his claim will e honored .
SIMPSON: Christ . Some honch in a cushy office on Earth says go look at a grid reference in the middle of nowhere , we look . They do n't say why , and I do n't ask . I do n't ask because it takes two weeks to get an answer out here and the answer 's always 'do n't ask . '
LYDECKER: So what do I tell this guy ?
SIMPSON: Tell him , as far as I 'm concerned , he finds something it 's his .
JORDEN: Look at this fat , juicy magnetic profile . And it 's mine , mine , mine .
ANNE: Half mine , dear .
NEWT: And half mine !
JORDEN: I got too many partners .
NEWT: Daddy , when are we going back to town ?
JORDEN: When we get rich , Newt .
NEWT: You always say that . I wan na go ack . I wan na play 'Monster Maze . '
TIM: You cheat too much .
NEWT: Do not . I 'm just the best .
TIM: Do too ! You go in places we ca n't fit .
NEWT: So ! That 's why I 'm the best .
ANNE: Knock it off ! I catch either of you playing in the air ducts again I 'll tan your hides .
NEWT: Mom . All the kids play it
JORDEN: Holy shiiit !
ANNE: You kids stay inside . I mean it ! We 'll be right back . They trudge toward the alien derelict .
JORDEN: Let 's wait till we know what to call it in as .
ANNE: How about 'big weird thing ' ?
TIM: Cheater !
NEWT: Timmythey 've been gone a long time .
TIM: It 'll be okay , Newt . Dad knows what he 's doing .
ANNE: Mayday ! Mayday ! This is Alpha Kilo Two Four Nine calling Hadley Control . Repeat . This is
BON: Best decision I ever made , Bill . We 'll be starting a new life from scratch , in a clean world . No crime . No unemployment
BURKE: Hi , Ripley . This is Lieutenant Gorman of the
RIPLEY: No . There 's no way !
BURKE: Hear me out
RIPLEY: I was reamed , steamed and dry-cleaned by you guysand now you want me to go back out there ? Forget it .
BURKE: Look , we do n't know what 's going on out there . It may just be a down transmitter . But if it 's not , I want you thereas an advisor . That 's all .
GORMAN: You would n't be going in with the troops . I can guarantee you safety .
BURKE: These Colonial Marines are some tough hombres , and they 're packing state-of-the-art firepower . Nothing they ca n't handleright , Lieutenant ?
GORMAN: We 're trained to deal with these kinds of situations .
RIPLEY: What about you ? What 's you interest in this ?
BURKE: Well , the corporation co-financed that colony with the Colonial Administration , against mineral ights . We 're getting into a lot of terraforming'Building Bette Worlds . ' Burke is revealing his early days in sales .
RIPLEY: Yeah , yeah . I saw the commercial .
BURKE: I heard you were working in the cargo docks .
RIPLEY: That 's right .
BURKE: Running loaders , forklifts , that sort of thing ?
RIPLEY: It 's all I could get . Anyway , it keeps my mind off of everything . Days off are worse .
BURKE: What if I said I could get you einstated as a flight officer ? And that the company has agreed to pick up your contract ?
RIPLEY: If I go .
BURKE: If you go . It 's a second chance , kiddo . And it 'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fea and beat it . You got ta get back on the horse
RIPLEY: Spare me , Burke . I 've had my psych evaluation this month .
BURKE: Yes , and I 've read it . You wake up every night , sheets soaking , the same nightmare over and over
RIPLEY: No ! The answer is no . Now please go . I 'm sorry . Just go , would you .
BURKE: Think about it .
RIPLEY: Burke , just tell me one thing . That you 're going out there to kill them . Not study . Not bring ack . Just burn them outclean forever .
BURKE: That 's the plan . My word on it .
RIPLEY: All right . I 'm in .
SPUNKMEYER: Arrgh . I 'm getting too old fo this shit .
DRAKE: They ai n't payin ' us enough for this .
DIETRICH: Not enough to have to wake up to your face , Drake .
DRAKE: Suck air . Hey , Hicksyou look like I feel .
HUDSON: This floor 's freezing .
APONE: Christ . I never saw such a uncha old women . You want me to fetch your slippers , Hudson ?
HUDSON: Would you , Sir ?
VASQUEZ: No . Have you ?
FROST: Hey , hand job , you take my towel ?
SPUNKMEYER: I need some slack , man . How come they send us straight back out like this ? We got some slack comin ' , man .
HICKS: You just got three weeks .
SPUNKMEYER: I mean breathing , not this frozen shit .
DIETRICH: Yeah , 'Top'what about it ?
APONE: You know it ai n't up to me . Awright ! Let 's knock off the grabass . First assembly 's in fifteenlet 's shag it .
VASQUEZ: Who 's the fresh meat again ?
FERRO: She 's supposed to be some kinda consultant She was an alien once .
HUDSON: Whoooah ! No shit ? I 'm impressed .
APONE: Let 's golet 's go . Cycle through !
HUDSON: Hey , 'Top . ' What 's the op ?
APONE: Rescue mission . There 's some juicy colonists ' daughters we got ta rescue from virginity .
SPUNKMEYER: Shee-it . Dumbass colonists . What 's this crap supposed to be ?
WIERZBOWSKI: Cornbread , I think . Hey , I would n't mind getting me some more a that Arcturan poontang . Remembe that time ?
HICKS: Looks like that new Lieutenant 's too good to eat with us grunts .
WIERZBOWSKI: Yeah . Got a corn cob up his ass , definitely .
BISHOP: I 'm sorry you feel that way about Synthetics , Ripley . Ripley spins on Burke , her tone accusing .
RIPLEY: You never said anything about an android being here ! Why not ?
BURKE: Well , it did n't occur to me . It 's een policy for years to have a synthetic on board .
BISHOP: I prefer the term 'artificial person ' myself . Is there a problem ?
BURKE: A synthetic malfunctioned on he last trip out . Some deaths were involved .
BISHOP: I 'm shocked . Was it an older model ?
BURKE: Cyberdyne Systems 120-A/2 . Bishop turns to Ripley , very conciliatory .
BISHOP: Well , that explains it . The A/2 's were always a bit twitchy . That could never happen now with out behavioral inhibitors . Impossible for me to harm or , by omission of action , allow to be harmed a human being . More cornbread ?
RIPLEY: Just stay away from me , Bishop ! You got that straight ? Burke and Gorman exchange glances .
WIERZBOWSKI: She do n't like the cornbread either .
APONE: Tench-hut !
GORMAN: At ease . I 'm sorry we did n't have time to brief before we left Gateway but
HUDSON: Sir ?
GORMAN: Yes , Hicks ?
HUDSON: Hudson , Sir . He 's Hicks .
GORMAN: What 's the question ?
HUDSON: Is this going to be a stand-up fight , Sir , on another bug-hunt ?
GORMAN: All we know is that there 's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved .
WIERZBOWSKI: A what ?
HICKS: It 's a bug-hunt . So what are these things ?
RIPLEY: I 've dictated what I know on these .
APONE: Tease us a bit .
SPUNKMEYER: Yeahpreviews .
RIPLEY: Okay . It 's important to understand this organism 's life cycle . It 's actually two creatures . The first form hatches from a sporea sort of large egg , and attaches itself to its victim . Then it injects an embryo , detaches and dies . It 's essentially a walking sex organ . The
HUDSON: Sounds like you , Hicks .
RIPLEY: The embryo , the second form , hosts in the victim 's body for several hours . Gestating . Then it then itemerges . Moults . Grows rapidly
VASQUEZ: I only need to know one thing .
RIPLEY: Yes ?
VASQUEZ: Where they are .
DRAKE: Yo ! Vasquez . Kick ass !
VASQUEZ: Anytime . Anywhere .
HUDSON: Somebody said alienshe thought they said illegal alien and signed up .
VASQUEZ: Fuck you .
HUDSON: Anytime . Anywhere .
RIPLEY: Am I disturbing you conversation Mr. Hudson ?
BURKE: I suggest you study the disks Ripley has been kind enough to prepare for you .
GORMAN: Are there any questions ? Hudson ?
HUDSON: How do I get out of this chicken-shit outfit ?
GORMAN: All right . I want this to go smooth and by the numbers . I want DCS and tactical database assimilation by 0830 . Ordnance loading , weapons strip and drop-ship prep details will have seven hours
BISHOP: Attention . This concluded final maneuvering operations . Thank you for your cooperation . You may resume work .
BURKE: Still nothing from the colony ?
GORMAN: Dead on all channels .
FROST: Clear , please .
HUDSON: Excuse me .
RIPLEY: I feel like a fifth wheel here . Is there anything I can do ?
APONE: I do n't know . Is there anything you can do ?
RIPLEY: I can drive that loader . I 've got a Class Two rating . My latest career move .
APONE: Let 's move it , girls ! On the ready line . Let 's go , let 's go .
HUDSON: I am ready , man . Ready to get it on . Check-it-out . I am the ultimate badassstate of the adass art . You do not want to fuck with me . Hey , Ripley , do n't worry . Me and my squad of ultimate badasses will protect you . Check-it-out
HICKS: Save it .
HUDSON: Sure , Hicks .
BURKE: Here we go .
FERRO: Initiate release sequencer on my mark . Three . Two . One . Mark !
SPUNKMEYER: Two-four-o . Nominal to profile . Picking up some hull ionization .
FERRO: Got it . Rough air ahead .
RIPLEY: How may drops is this for you , Lieutenant ?
GORMAN: Thirty-eightsimulated .
VASQUEZ: How many combat drops ?
GORMAN: Welltwo . Three , including this one .
FERRO: Turning on final . Coming around to a seven-zero-niner . Terminal guidance locked in . Where 's the damn beacon ?
GORMAN: Let 's see . Everybody on line . Drake , check you camera . There seems to be a
APONE: Awright . Fire-team A . Gear up . Let 's move . Two minutes . Somebody wake up Hicks .
RIPLEY: That the atmosphere processor ?
BURKE: Uh-hunh . One of thirty or so , all over the planet . They 're completely automated . We manufacture them , by the way .
GORMAN: Hold at forty . Slow circle of the complex .
RIPLEY: The structure seems intact . They have power .
GORMAN: Okay , let 's do it .
APONE: Awright ! I want a nice clean dispersal this time . Ripley turns as Vasquez squeezes past her .
VASQUEZ: You staying in here ?
RIPLEY: You bet .
VASQUEZ: Figures .
GORMAN: Set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast . Immediate dust off on my 'clear , ' then stay on station .
APONE: Ten seconds , people . Look sharp !
GORMAN: First squad up , on line . Hicks , get yours in a cordon . Watch the ear .
APONE: Vasquez , take point . Let 's move .
GORMAN: Second team , move up . Flanking positions .
HICKS: Nothing . No movement .
BURKE: Looks like my room in college . Nobody laughs .
RIPLEY: Wait ! Tell him to Hicks . Back up . Pan left . There !
HICKS: You seeing this okay ? Looks melted . Burke raises an eyebrow at Ripley .
BURKE: Hmm . Acid for blood .
HICKS: Looks like somebody bagged them one of Ripley 's bad guys here .
HUDSON: Hey , if you like that , you 're gon na love this
APONE: Second squad ? What 's your status ?
HICKS: Just finished our sweep . Nobody home .
APONE: The place is dead , Sir . Whateve happened , we missed it .
GORMAN: All right , the area 's secured . Let 's go in and see what thei computer can tell us . First team head for operations . Hudson , see if you can get thei CPU on line . Hicks , meet me at the south lock by the up-link tower
HUDSON: He 's coming in . I feel safe already .
VASQUEZ: Pendejo jerkoff .
HUDSON: Sir , the CPU is on-line .
GORMAN: Okay , stand by in operations . Let 's go .
RIPLEY: Burke !
WIERZBOWSKI: Scare you ?
RIPLEY: Christ , Wierzbowski !
WIERZBOWSKI: Sorry . Hicks said to keep an eye on you . He gestures for her to precede him inside .
GORMAN: Looks like you company can write off its share of this colony .
BURKE: It 's insured .
FRONT: Sir , you should check this out He leads the way into the corridor .
FROST: Right ahead here
WIERZBOWSKI: Last stand .
GORMAN: No bodies ?
FROST: No , Sir . Looks like it was a helluva fight . TIGHT ON RIPLEY transfixed by something .
RIPLEY: Over there .
BURKE: Are these the same ?
RIPLEY: Watch it , Burke
HICKS: It likes you .
BURKE: These are dead . There 's just the two alive .
RIPLEY: Removed surgically before embryo implantation . Subject Marachuk , John L. Died during procedure . They killed him getting it off .
HICKS: Poor bastard .
RIPLEY: One of us ?
GORMAN: Aponewhere are your people ? Anybody in D-Block ?
APONE: Negative . We 're all in Operations .
HICKS: It 's moving .
VASQUEZ: Which way ? Hicks nods toward a complicated array of food
RIPLEY: Come on out . It 's all right
HICKS: Ow ! Shit . Watchit , she bites .
RIPLEY: It 's okay , it 's okay . It 's over you 're going to be all right now it 's okayyou 're safe Newt goes limp , almost catatonic .
GORMAN: What 's her name again ?
DIETRICH: Rebecca .
GORMAN: Now think , Rebecca . Concentrate . Just start at the beginning
RIPLEY: Gorman ! Give it a rest would you . Gorman stands with a sigh of dismissal .
GORMAN: Total brain-lock .
DIETRICH: Physically she 's okay . Borderline malnutrition , but I do n't think any permanent damage . She unsnaps the bio-monitoring cuff .
GORMAN: Come on , we 're wasting ou time .
RIPLEY: Here , try this . A little instant hot chocolate .
BURKE: What 's he scanning for ?
GORMAN: PDT 'S . Personal-Data Transmitters . Every adult colonist had one surgically implanted .
HUDSON: If they 're within twenty klicks we 'll read it out here , ut so farzip .
RIPLEY: I do n't know how you managed to stay alive but you 're one ave kid , Rebecca . Newt 's voice is almost inaudible .
NEWT: N-newt .
RIPLEY: What did you say ?
NEWT: Newt . My n-name 's Newt . Nobody calls me Rebecca except my dork brother .
RIPLEY: Well , Newt it is then . My name 's Ripleyand people call me Ripley .
NEWT: Casey . She 's my only friend .
RIPLEY: What about me ? Newt 's reply is flat , neutral .
NEWT: I do n't want you for a friend .
RIPLEY: Why not ?
NEWT: Because you 'll be gone soon , like the others . Like everybody . You 'll be dead and you 'll leave me alone .
RIPLEY: Oh , Newt . You mom and dad went away like that , did n't they ?
NEWT: They 're dead .
RIPLEY: Newt . Look at meNewt . I wo n't leave you . I promise .
NEWT: You promise ?
RIPLEY: Cross my heart .
NEWT: And hope to die ?
RIPLEY: And hope to die .
HUDSON: Hah ! Stop your grinnin ' and drop your linen ! Found 'em .
GORMAN: Alive ?
HUDSON: Unknown . But , it looks like all of them . Over at the processing stationsublevel ' C ' under the south tower .
HICKS: Looks like a Goddamn town meeting .
GORMAN: Let 's saddle up .
APONE: Awright , let 's go girls , they ai n't payin ' us by the hour .
NEWT: I was the best at the game . I knew the whole maze .
RIPLEY: The 'maze ' ? You mean the air ducts ?
NEWT: Yeah , you know . In the walls , under the floor . I was the ace . I could hide bette than anybody .
RIPLEY: You 're really something , ace .
GORMAN: Forty meters in . Ramp on axial two-two . Access to sublevels .
HUDSON: You tell me . I only work here .
GORMAN: What is it ?
RIPLEY: I do n't know .
GORMAN: Proceed inside .
RIPLEY: Oh God
DIETRICH: Looks like some sort of secreted esin .
GORMAN: They ripped apart the colony for building materials .
RIPLEY: And the colonistsWhen they were done with them . Newt , you better go sit up front . Go on .
FROST: Hotter ' n hell in here .
HUDSON: Yeahbut it 's a dry heat .
RIPLEY: They 're right under the primary heat exchangers .
BURKE: Yeah ? Maybe the organisms like the heat , that 's why they built
RIPLEY: That 's not what I mean . Gorman , if your men have to use thei weapons in there , they 'll rupture the cooling system .
BURKE: She 's right .
GORMAN: So .
RIPLEY: Sothen the fusion containment shuts down .
GORMAN: So ? So ?
BURKE: We 're talking thermonuclea explosion .
GORMAN: Shit . Apone , collect magazines from everybody . We ca n't have any firing in there .
WIERZBOWSKI: Is he fucking crazy ?
HUDSON: What 're we supposed to use , man ? Harsh language ?
GORMAN: Flame-units only . I want ifles slung .
APONE: Let 's go . Pull 'em out .
HICKS: I always keep this handy . For close encounter .
APONE: Let 's move . Hicks , back us up .
GORMAN: Any movement ? Hudson watches his tracker , scanning .
HUDSON: Nothing . Zip .
DIETRICH: Sir ! The woman 's lips move feebly .
WOMAN: PleaseGodkill me .
APONE: Flame thrower ! Move !
HUDSON: Movement !
APONE: Position ?
HUDSON: Ca n't lock up
APONE: Talk to me , Hudson .
HUDSON: Uh , seems to be in front and behind .
GORMAN: We ca n't see anything back here , Apone . What 's going on ?
RIPLEY: Pull you team out , Gorman .
APONE: Go to infrared . Looks sharp people !
HUDSON: Multiple signals . All round . Closing .
VASQUEZ: Let 's rock .
GORMAN: Who 's firing ? I ordered a hold fire , dammit !
HUDSON: Let 's get the fuck out of here !
HICKS: Not that tunnel , the othe one !
CROWE: You sure ? Watch itbehind you . Fucking move , will you !
GORMAN: Shut up . Just shut up !
APONE: Say again ? All afte incinerators ? Ripley watches it fall apart .
GORMAN: I said
APONE: Dietrich ? Crowe ? Sound off ! Wierzbowski ?
HUDSON: We 're getting juked ! We 're gon na die in here !
APONE: Yeah . Right . Right ! Fuck the heat exchanger ! He FIRES . Vasquez , nearby , is laying down a
GORMAN: I told them to fall back
RIPLEY: They 're but off ! Do something ! But he 's gone . Total brain-lock .
GORMAN: Ripley , what the hell ? She slams the tractor into gear .
VASQUEZ: Drake ! He 's down ! Hicks screams right in her face .
HICKS: He 's gone ! Forget it , he 's gone !
VASQUEZ: No.. No , he 's not . He 's
HICKS: Let 's go !
RIPLEY: Newt ? Where 's Newt ?
HUDSON: JesusJesusI do n't believe it . Burke tries to have a look at Hudson 's arm .
HICKS: He 's alive . I think he 's paralyzed .
VASQUEZ: He 's fucking dead !
HICKS: Hold it . Hold it . Back off , right now .
RIPLEY: Looks like it stung him .
HUDSON: Heyhey ! Look , Crowe and Dietrich are n't dead , man .
RIPLEY: You ca n't help them . Right now they 're being cocooned just like the others .
HUDSON: Oh , God . Jesus . This ai n't happening .
SPUNKMEYER: Need anything else ? Bishop waves `` no '' without looking up .
VASQUEZ: All right , we ca n't blow the fuck out of themwhy not roll some canisters of CN-20 down there . Nerve gas the whole nest ?
HUDSON: Look , man , let 's just bug out and call it even , okay ?
RIPLEY: No good . How do we know it 'll effect their biochemistry ? I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit . It 's the only way to be sure .
BURKE: Now hold on a second . I 'm not authorizing that action .
RIPLEY: Why not ?
BURKE: Well , I meanI know this is an emotional moment , but let 's not make snap judgments . Let 's move cautiously . First , this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it
RIPLEY: They can bill me . I got a ta unning . What 's second ?
BURKE: This is clearly an important species we 're dealing with here . We ca n't just arbitrarily exterminate them
RIPLEY: Bullshit !
VASQUEZ: Yeah , bullshit . Watch us .
HUDSON: Maybe you have n't been keeping up on current events , but we just got out asses kicked , pal !
RIPLEY: Look , Burke . We had an agreement .
BURKE: I know , I know , but we 're dealing with changing scenarios here . This thing is major , Ripley . I mean eally major . You got ta go with its energy . Since you are the epresentative of the company who discovered this species you percentage will naturally be some serious , serious money . Ripley stares at his like he 's a particularly disagreeable fungus .
RIPLEY: You son of a bitch .
BURKE: Do n't make me pull rank , Ripley .
RIPLEY: What rank ? I believe Corporal Hicks has authority here .
BURKE: Corporal Hicks ! ?
RIPLEY: This operation is under military jurisdiction and Hicks is next in chain of command . Right ?
HICKS: Looks that way .
BURKE: Look , this is a multimillion dollar operation . He ca n't make that kind of decision . He 's just a grunt ! No offense .
HICKS: None taken . Ferro , you copying ?
FERRO: Standing by .
HICKS: Prep for dust-off . We 're gon na need an immediate evac . I think we 'll take off and nuke the site from orbit . It 's the only way to be sure .
BURKE: This is absurd ! You do n't have the authority to
RIPLEY: We 're going home , honey .
FERRO: Spunkmeyer ? Goddammit .
RIPLEY: Run !
HUDSON: Well that 's great ! That 's just fucking great , man . Now what the fuck are we supposed to do , man ? We 're in some real pretty shit now !
HICKS: Are you finished ? You okay ?
NEWT: I guess we 're not leaving , right ?
RIPLEY: I 'm sorry , Newt .
NEWT: You do n't have to be sorry . It was n't your fault .
HUDSON: Just tell me what the fuck we 're supposed to do now . What 're we gon na do now ?
BURKE: May be could build a fire and sing songs .
NEWT: We should get back , 'cause it 'll e dark soon . They come mostly at night . Mostly .
HICKS: This is all we could salvage . We 've got four pulse-rifles with about fifty rounds each . Not so good . About fifteen M-40 grenades and two flame throwers less than half fullone damaged . And We 've got four of these obot-sentry units with scanners and display intact .
RIPLEY: How long after we 're declared overdue can we expect a rescue ?
HICKS: About seventeen days .
HUDSON: Man , we 're not going to make it seventeen hours ! Those things are going to come in here , just like they did before , man they 're going to come in here and get us , man , long before
RIPLEY: She survived longer than that with no weapons and no training .
HUDSON: Aye-firmative . I 'm on it .
BISHOP: I 'll be in medical . I 'd like to continue my analysis .
RIPLEY: Fine . You do that .
HUDSON: Yeah , right , it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here .
RIPLEY: All right . There 's a fire doo at this end . The first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door .
HICKS: We got ta figure on them getting into the complex .
RIPLEY: That 's right . So we put up welded barricades at these intersections and seal these ducts here and here . Then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the othe two sentry units , here .
HICKS: Outstanding . Then all we need 's a deck of cards . All right , let 's move like we got a purpose .
HUDSON: Aye-firmative .
NEWT: Aye-firmative !
VASQUEZ: Testing !
HUDSON: Hudson here . A and B sentries are in place and keyed . We 're sealing the tunnel .
HICKS: Roger .
RIPLEY: Thanks .
HUDSON: Uh , what 's next ? She consults a printout of the floor plan .
RIPLEY: Now you just lie here and have a nap . You 're exhausted .
NEWT: I do n't want toI have scary dreams .
RIPLEY: I 'll bet Casey does n't have ad dreams .
NEWT: Ripleyshe does n't have ad dreams because she 's just a piece of plastic .
RIPLEY: Oh . Sorry , Newt .
NEWT: My mommy always said there were no monsters . No real ones . But there are .
RIPLEY: Yes , there are , are n't there .
NEWT: Why do they tell little kids that ?
RIPLEY: Well , some kids ca n't handle it like you can .
NEWT: Did one of those things grow inside her ?
RIPLEY: I do n't know , Newt . That 's the truth .
NEWT: Is n't that how babies come ? I mean people babiesthey grow inside you ?
RIPLEY: No , it 's different , honey .
NEWT: Did you ever have a baby ?
RIPLEY: Yes . A little girl .
NEWT: Where is she ?
RIPLEY: Gone .
NEWT: You mean dead .
RIPLEY: I think it 's not the worst idea I 've heard all day . Let 's talk about it later .
NEWT: Do n't go ! Please .
RIPLEY: I 'll be right in the othe oom , Newt . And lookI can see you on that camera right up there .
BISHOP: I 've isolated a neuro-muscula toxin responsible for the paralysis . It seems to be metabolizing . He should wake up soon .
RIPLEY: Now let me get this straight . The aliens paralyzed the colonists , carried them over there , cocooned them to be hosts fo more of those
BISHOP: Yes . That follows .
RIPLEY: But these things come from eggsso where are all the eggs coming from .
BISHOP: That is the question of the hour . We could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization . An ant of termite colony , fo example , is ruled by a single female , a queen , which is the source of new eggs .
RIPLEY: You 're saying one of those things lays all the eggs ?
BISHOP: Well , the queen is always physically larger then the others . A termite queen 's abdomen is so loated with eggs that it ca n't move at all . It is fed and tended y drone workers , defended by the warriors . She is the cente of their lives , quite literally the mother of their society .
RIPLEY: Could it be intelligent ?
BISHOP: Hard to say . It may have been lind instinctattraction to the heat of whateverbut she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we could n't destroy her without destroying ourselves . That 's if she exists , of course .
RIPLEY: I want those specimens destroyed as soon as you 're done with them . You understand ?
BISHOP: Mr. Burke have instructions that they were to be kept alive in stasis for return to the company labs . He was very specific .
RIPLEY: Burke !
BURKE: Those specimens are worth millions to the bio-weapons division . Now , if you 're smart we can both come out of this heroes . Set up for life .
RIPLEY: You just try getting a dangerous organism past ICC quarantine . Section 22350 of the Commerce Code .
BURKE: You 've been doing your homework . Look , they ca n't impound it if they do n't know about it .
RIPLEY: But they will know about it , Burke . From me . Just like they 'll know how you were responsible for the deaths of one hundred and fifty-seven colonists here
BURKE: Now , wait a second
RIPLEY: You sent them to that ship . I just checked the colony log directive dates six-twelve-seventy-nine . Signed Burke , Carter J .
BURKE: Look , maybe the thing did n't even exist , right ? And if I 'd made it a major security situation , the Administration would 've stepped in . Then no exclusive rights , nothing . He shrugs , his manner blase , dismissive .
RIPLEY: Bad call ? These people are fucking dead , Burke ! Well , they 're going to nail your hide to the shed and I 'll be there when they do .
BURKE: I expected more of you , Ripley . I thought you would be smarte than this .
RIPLEY: Sorry to disappoint you .
HICKS: They 're coming . They 're in the tunnel .
HUDSON: They must be wall to wall in there . Look at those ammo counters go . It 's a shooting gallery down there .
HICKS: B gun 's dry . Twenty on A . Ten . Five . That 's it .
RIPLEY: They 're at the fire door . The BOOMING INCREASES in volume and ferocity .
HUDSON: Man , listen to that .
BISHOP: Bishop here . I 'm afraid I have some bad news .
HUDSON: Well , that 's a switch .
BISHOP: That 's it . See it ? Emergency venting .
RIPLEY: How long until it blows ?
BISHOP: I 'm projecting total systems failure in a little under fou hours . The blast radius will be about thirty kilometers . About equal to ten megatons .
HICKS: We got problems .
HUDSON: I do n't fucking believe this . Do you believe this ?
RIPLEY: And it 's too late to shut it down ?
BISHOP: I 'm afraid so . The crash did too much damage . The overload is inevitable , at this point .
HUDSON: Oh , man . And I was gettin ' short , too ! Four more weeks and out . Now I 'm gon na buy it on this fuckin ' ock . It ai n't half fair , man !
VASQUEZ: Hudson , give us a break .
RIPLEY: We need the other drop-ship . The on one the Sulaco . We have to ing it down on remote , somehow .
HUDSON: How ? The transmitter was on the APC . It 's wasted .
RIPLEY: I do n't care how ! Think of a way . Think of something .
HUDSON: Think of what ? We 're fucked .
RIPLEY: What about the colony transmitter ? That up-link tower down at the other end . Why ca n't we use that ?
BISHOP: I checked . The hard wiring etween here and there was severed in the fighting .
RIPLEY: Well then somebody 's just going to have to go out there . Take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually .
HUDSON: Oh , right ! Right ! With those things running around . No way .
BISHOP: I 'll go .
RIPLEY: What ?
BISHOP: I 'm really the only one qualified to remote-pilot the ship anyway . Believe me , I 'd prefer not to . I may be synthetic but I 'm not stupid .
RIPLEY: All right . Let 's get on it . What 'll you need ?
VASQUEZ: Listen . It 's stopped .
HICKS: Well , they 're into the complex .
BISHOP: This duct runs almost to the up-link assembly . One hundred eighty meters . Say , forty minutes to crawl down there . One hou to patch in and align the antenna . Thirty minutes to prep the ship , then about fifty minutes flight time . Ripley looks at her watch .
RIPLEY: It 's going to be closer . You etter get going .
BISHOP: See you soon .
HICKS: They 're in the approach corridor .
RIPLEY: On my way .
HICKS: Twenty meters and closing . Fifteen . C and D guns down about fifty percent .
RIPLEY: Now many ?
HICKS: Ca n't tell . Lots . D gun 's down to twenty . Ten . It 's out .
RIPLEY: They retreated . The guns stopped them .
HICKS: Yeah . But look
RIPLEY: But they do n't know that . They 're probably looking for other ways to get in . That 'll take them awhile .
HUDSON: Maybe we got 'em demoralized .
HICKS: I want you two walking the perimeter . I know we 're all in strung out shape but stay frosty and alert . We 've got to stop any entries before they get out of hand .
RIPLEY: They 'll get us .
HICKS: Maybe . Maybe not .
RIPLEY: Hicks , I 'm not going to wind up like those others . You 'll take care of it wo n't you , it if comes to that ?
HICKS: If it comes to that , I 'll do us oth . Let 's see that it does n't Here , I 'd like to introduce you to a close personal friend of mine .
RIPLEY: What do I do ?
HICKS: Just pull it in real right . It will kick some . When the counte here heads zero , hit this
RIPLEY: What 's this ?
HICKS: Well , that 's the grenade launche you probably do n't want to mess with that .
RIPLEY: Look , you started this . Now show me everything . I can handle myself .
HICKS: Yeah . I 've noticed .
RIPLEY: How do you feel ?
GORMAN: All right , I guess . One hell of a hangover . Look , Ripley
RIPLEY: Forget it .
GORMAN: You still want to kill me ?
VASQUEZ: It wo n't be necessary .
RIPLEY: There , there . Sssshh . It 's all ight .
BISHOP: Now , if I did it right He punches a key marked `` ENABLE . ''
FEMALE VOICE: Attention . Attention . Automatic fueling operations have begun . Please extinguish all smoking materials .
RIPLEY: Newt . Newt , wake up .
NEWT: Wah ? Where are ?
RIPLEY: Sssh . Do n't move . We 're in trouble .
HICKS: Roger . Check back when you 've activated the ship . He 's at the up-link tower .
BURKE: Excellent .
NEWT: Mommymommmyyyyy
RIPLEY: I know , honey . Me too .
HICKS: Vasquez , Hudson , meet me in medical ! We got a fire !
HUDSON: Do it !
RIPLEY: Burkeit was Burke .
HUDSON: I say we grease this rat-fuck son of a bitch right now !
HICKS: I do n't get it . It does n't make any Goddamn sense .
RIPLEY: He wanted an alien , only he could n't get it back through quarantine . But if we were impregnated whatever you call itand then frozen for the trip back at just the right timethen nobody would know about the embryos we were carrying . We and Newt .
HICKS: Wait a minute . We 'd know about it .
RIPLEY: The only way it would work is if he sabotaged certain freezers on the trip back . Then he could jettison the bodies and make up any story he liked .
HUDSON: Fuuuck ! He 's dead . You 're dogmeat , pal .
BURKE: This is total paranoid delusion . It 's pitiful .
RIPLEY: You know , Burke , I do n't know which species is worse . You do n't see them screwing each other ove for a fucking percentage .
HICKS: Let 's waste him . No offense .
RIPLEY: Just find someplace to lock him up until it 's time to
HUDSON: What do you mean , they cut the power ? How could they cut the power , man ? They 're animals .
RIPLEY: Newt ! Stay close . Let 's get some trackers going . Come on , get moving . Gorman , watch Burke .
HUDSON: There 's something .
VASQUEZ: You 're just reading me .
HUDSON: No . No ! It ai n't you . They 're inside . Inside the perimeter . They 're in here .
RIPLEY: Hudson , stay cool . Vasquez ?
VASQUEZ: Hudson may be right .
HICKS: It 's game time .
RIPLEY: Get back here , both of you . Fall ack to Operations .
HUDSON: This signal 's weirdmust be some interference or something . There 's movement all over the place
RIPLEY: Just get back here !
HUDSON: Movement ! Signal 's clean .
RIPLEY: Seal the door .
HUDSON: Seventeen meters .
HICKS: Let 's get these things lit .
RIPLEY: They learned . They cut the powe and avoided the guns . They must have found another way in , something we missed .
HICKS: We did n't miss anything .
HUDSON: Fifteen meters .
RIPLEY: I do n't know , an acid hole in a duct . Something under the floors , not on the plans . I do n't know !
HUDSON: Twelve meters . Man , this is a big fucking signal . Ten meters .
RIPLEY: They 're right on us . Vasquez , how you doing ?
HUDSON: Nine meters . Eight .
RIPLEY: Ca n't be . That 's inside the room !
HUDSON: It 's readin ' right . Look !
HICKS: Well you 're not reading it right !
HUDSON: Six meters . Five . What the fu
RIPLEY: Medical ! Get to medical ! She dashes for the corridor .
NEWT: Look !
HUDSON: Let 's go ! Let 's go !
HICKS: Fuckin ' A !
RIPLEY: Locked .
HICKS: Stand back .
GORMAN: You ca n't use those in here !
VASQUEZ: Right . Fire in the hole !
HICKS: Thanks a lot ! Now I ca n't hear shit .
VASQUEZ: What ?
NEWT: Come on ! This way .
RIPLEY: Stay behind me .
NEWT: Come on . Crawl faster .
RIPLEY: DO you know how to get to the landing field from here ?
NEWT: Sure . Go left .
HICKS: Bishop , you read me ? Come in , over .
BISHOP: Yes , I read you . Not very well
HICKS: All right , stand by there . We 're on out way . Over .
RIPLEY: Back . Go back !
VASQUEZ: Losing fuel .
NEWT: This way . Come on , we 're almost there !
RIPLEY: Newt , wait !
NEWT: Here ! Go up .
RIPLEY: Newt !
NEWT: Mommywhere are you ?
RIPLEY: Hicks , get down here . I need that locator .
HICKS: This way . We 're close
NEWT: Here ! I 'm here . I 'm here .
RIPLEY: Climb down , honey . We have to cut through this grate .
HICKS: She 's gone ! Let 's go !
RIPLEY: No ! No ! She 's alive ! We have to
HICKS: All right ! She 's alive . I elieve it . But we got ta get moving ! Now !
RIPLEY: Come on , you can make it . Almost there .
RIPLEY: WE 'RE NOT LEAVING !
BISHOP: Ripley
RIPLEY: She 's alive . They brought he here and you know it .
BISHOP: In seventeen minutes this place will be a cloud of vapor the size of Nebraska .
RIPLEY: Hicks , do n't let him leave .
HICKS: We ai n't going anywhere .
RIPLEY: See you , Hicks .
HICKS: Dwayne . It 's Dwayne .
RIPLEY: Ellen .
HICKS: Do n't be long , Ellen .
VOICE: Attention . Emergency . All personnel must evacuate immediately . You now have fourteen minutes to reach minimum safe distance .
BURKE: Ripleyhelp me . I can feel itinside . Oh , Godit 's moving ! Oh gooood She looks at him . No one deserves this .
RIPLEY: Here .
VOICE: You now have eleven minutes to each minimum safe distance .
NEWT: I knew you 'd come .
RIPLEY: Newt , I want you to hang on , now . Hang on tight .
VOICE: You now have two minutes to reach minimum safe distance .
RIPLEY: BISHOP !
VOICE: You now have thirty seconds to each
RIPLEY: Punch it , Bishop !
BISHOP: I gave him a shot , for the pain . We 'll need to get a stretcher to cart him up to medical .
RIPLEY: You did okay , Bishop .
BISHOP: Well , thanks , I
RIPLEY: Go !
BISHOP: Not bad for a human . He winks . Ripley crosses to Newt .
NEWT: MommyMommy ?
RIPLEY: Right here , baby . Right here . Ripley hugs her desperately .
NEWT: Are we going to sleep now ?
RIPLEY: That 's right .
NEWT: Can we dream ?
RIPLEY: Yes , honey . I think we both can .
ADDISON'S VOICE: The Sarah Siddons Award fo Distinguished Achievement is perhaps unknown to you . It has been spared the sensational and commercial publicity that attends such questionable `` honors '' as the Pulitzer Prize and those awards presented annually by the film society
AGED ACTOR: I have been proud and privileged to have spent my life in the Theater - `` a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage '' - and I have been honored to be , fo forty years , Chief Promoter of the Sarah Siddons Society Thirty-nine times have I placed in deserving hands this highest hono the Theater knows Surely no actor is older than I - I have earned my place out of the sun and never before has this Award gone to anyone younger than its ecipient tonight . How fitting that it should pass from my hands to hers
ADDISON'S VOICE: Eve . Eve , the Golden Girl . The cover girl , the girl next door , the girl on the moon Time has been good to Eve , Life goes where she goes - she 's been profiled , covered , revealed , reported , what she eats and when and where , whom she knows and where she was and when and where she 's going
KAREN'S VOICE: When was it ? How long ? It seems a lifetime ago . Lloyd always said that in the Theater a lifetime was a season , and a season a lifetime . It 's June now . That was - early October only last October . It was a drizzly night , I remember I asked the taxi to wait
EVE'S VOICE: Mrs. Richards
KAREN: So there you are . It seemed odd , suddenly , your not being there
EVE: Why should you think I would n't be ?
KAREN: Why should you be ? After all , six nights a week - for weeks - of watching even Margo Channing ente and leave a theater-
EVE: I hope you do n't mind my speaking to you
KAREN: Not at all .
EVE: I 've seen you so often - it took every bit of courage I could raise-
KAREN: To speak to just a playwright 's wife ? I 'm the lowest form of celebrity
EVE: You 're Margo Channing 's best friend . You and your husband are always with her - and Mr. Sampson what 's he like ?
KAREN: Bill Sampson ? He 's - he 's a director .
EVE: He 's the best .
KAREN: He 'll agree with you . Tell me , what do you between the time Margo goes in and comes out ? Just huddle in that doorway and wait ?
EVE: Oh , no . I see the play .
KAREN: You see the play ? You 've seen the play every performance ? But , do n't you find it - I mean apart from everything else - do n't you find it expensive ?
EVE: Standing room does n't cost much . I manage .
KAREN: I 'm going to take you to Margo
EVE: Oh , no
KAREN: She 's got to meet you-
EVE: No , I 'd be imposing on her , I 'd be just another tongue-tied gushing fan
KAREN: There is n't another like you , there could n't be-
EVE: But if I 'd known maybe some other time I mean , looking like this .
KAREN: You look just fine by the way . What 's your name ?
EVE: Eve . Eve Harrington . Karen opens the door . They go in .
KAREN: You wait a minute now do n't run away- Eve smiles shakily . At the same moment
MARGO'S VOICE: `` Honey chile , '' I said , `` if the South had won the war , you could write the same plays about the North ! '' Karen enters during the line .
KAREN: Hi . Hello , darling-
MARGO: Hi . `` Well , now Mis ' Channin ' , ah do n't think you can rightly say we lost the wah , we was mo ' stahved out , you might say - an ' that 's what ah don ' unnerstand about all these plays about love-stahved Suth ' n women - love is one thing we was nevah stahved for the South ! ''
LLOYD: How was the concert ?
KAREN: Loud .
BIRDIE: Lem me fix you a drink .
KAREN: No thanks , Birdie . Karen laughs with them .
LLOYD: Margo 's interview with a lady eporter from the South-
BIRDIE: The minute it gets printed they 're gon na fire on Gettysburg all ove again
MARGO: It was Fort Sumter they fired on-
BIRDIE: I never played Fort Sumter .
MARGO: Honey chili had a point . You know , I can remember plays about women - even from the South - where it never even occurred to them whethe they wanted to marry their fathers more than their brothers
LLOYD: That was way back
MARGO: Within your time , buster . Lloyd , honey , be a playwright with guts . Write me one about a nice , normal woman who shoots her husband .
BIRDIE: You need new girdles .
MARGO: Buy some .
BIRDIE: The same size ?
MARGO: Of course !
BIRDIE: Well . I guess a real tight girdle help when you 're playin ' a lunatic .
KAREN: Margo does not play a lunatic , Birdie .
BIRDIE: I know . She just keeps hearin ' he dead father play the banjo .
MARGO: It 's the tight girdle that does it .
KAREN: I find these wisecracks increasingly less funny ! 'Aged in Wood ' happens to be a fine and distinguished play-
LLOYD: - 'at 's my loyal little woman .
KAREN: The critics thought so , the audiences certainly think so - packed houses , tickets for months in advance - I ca n't see that either of Lloyd 's last two plays have hurt you any !
LLOYD: Easy , now
MARGO: Relax , kid . It 's only me and my big mouth
KAREN: It 's just that you get me so mad sometimes of all the women in the world with nothing to complain about-
MARGO: Ai n't it the truth ?
KAREN: Yes , it is ! You 're talented , famous , wealthy - people waiting around night after night just to see you , even in the wind and ain
MARGO: Autograph fiends ! They 're not people - those little beast who run in packs like coyotes-
KAREN: They 're your fans , your audience-
MARGO: They 're nobody 's fans ! They 're juvenile delinquents , mental detectives , they 're nobody 's audience , they never see a play o a movie , even - they 're neve indoors long enough ! There is a pause . Lloyd applauds lightly .
KAREN: Well there 's one indoors now . I 've brought her back to see you .
MARGO: You 've what ?
KAREN: She 's just outside the door .
MARGO: The heave-ho .
KAREN: You ca n't put her out , I promised Margo , you 've got to see her , she worships you , it 's like something out of a book-
LLOYD: That book is out of print , Karen , those days are gone . Fans no longer pull the carriage through the streets - they tear off clothes and steal wrist watches
KAREN: If you 'd only see her , you 're he whole life - you must have spotted her by now , she 's always there
MARGO: Kind of mousy trench coat and funny hat ? How could I miss her ? Every night and matinee - well She looks to Birdie .
BIRDIE: Once George Jessel played my hometown . For a girl , gettin ' in to see him was easy . Gettin ' out was the problem
EVE: I thought you 'd forgotten about me .
KAREN: Not at all . Margo , this is Eve Harrington .
MARGO: How do you do , my dear .
BIRDIE: Oh , brother .
EVE: Hello , Miss Channing .
KAREN: My husband
LLOYD: Hello , Miss Harrington .
EVE: How do you do , Mr. Richards .
MARGO: And this is my good friend and companion , Miss Birdie Coonan .
BIRDIE: Oh , brother .
MARGO: Miss Coonan
LLOYD: Oh brother what ?
BIRDIE: When she gets like this all of a sudden she 's playin ' Hamlet 's mother
MARGO: I 'm sure you must have things to do in the bathroom , Birdie dear .
BIRDIE: If I have n't , I 'll find something till you 're normal . She goes into the bathroom .
MARGO: Dear Birdie . Wo n't you sit down , Miss Worthington ?
KAREN: Harrington .
MARGO: I 'm so sorry Harrington . Wo n't you sit down ?
EVE: Thank you . She sits . A short lull .
MARGO: Would you like a drink ? It 's right eside you
KAREN: I was telling Margo and Lloyd about how often you 'd seen the play
EVE: No , thank you . Yes . I 've seen every performance .
LLOYD: Every performance ? Then - am I safe in assuming you like it ?
EVE: I 'd like anything Miss Channing played
MARGO: Would you , really ? How sweet-
LLOYD: I doubt very much that you 'd like her in 'The Hairy Ape ' .
EVE: Please , do n't misunderstand me , Mr. Richards . I think that part of Miss Channing 's greatness lies in he ability to choose the best plays your new play is for Miss Channing , is n't it , Mr. Richards ?
MARGO: Of course it is .
LLOYD: How 'd hear about it ?
EVE: There was an item in the Times . i like the title . 'Footsteps on the Ceiling ' .
LLOYD: Let 's get back to this one . Have you really seen every performance ? Why ? I 'm curious Eve looks at Margo , then drops her eyes .
EVE: Well . If I did n't come to see the play , I would n't have anywhere else to go .
MARGO: There are other plays
EVE: Not with you in them . Not by Mr. Richards
LLOYD: But you must have friends , a family , a home- Eve pauses . Then shakes her head .
KAREN: Tell us about it - Eve
EVE: If I only knew how
KAREN: Try
EVE: Well
LLOYD: 'Remembrance ' .
MARGO: Did you see it here in New York ?
EVE: San Francisco . It was the last week . I went one night the most important night in my life - until this one . Anyway I found myself going the next night - and the next and the next . Every performance . Then , when the show went East - I went East .
BIRDIE: I 'll never forget that blizzard the night we played Cheyenne . A cold night . First time I ever saw a assiere break like a piece of matzos
KAREN: Eve why do n't you start at the eginning ?
EVE: It could n't possibly interest you .
MARGO: Please Eve speaks simply and without self-pity .
EVE: I guess it started back home . Wisconsin , that is . There was just mum , and dad - and me . I was the only child , and I made believe a lot when I was a kid - I acted out all sorts of things what they were is n't important . But somehow acting and make-believe began to fill up my life more and more , it got so that I could n't tell the eal from the unreal except that the unreal seemed more real to me I 'm talking a lot of gibberish , are n't I ?
LLOYD: Not at all
EVE: Farmers were poor in those days , that 's what dad was - a farmer . I had to help out . So I quit school and I went to Milwaukee . I became a secretary . In a brewery . When you 're a secretary in a ewery - it 's pretty hard to make elieve you 're anything else . Everything is beer . It was n't much fun , but it helped at home - and there was a Little Theater Group like a drop of rain in the desert . That 's where I met Eddie . He was a adio technician . We played 'Liliom ' for three performances , I was awful - then the war came , and we got married . Eddie was in the air force - and they sent him to the South Pacific . You were with the O.W.I. , were n't you Mr. Richards ? That 's what 'Who 's Who ' says well , with Eddie gone , my life went ack to beer . Except for a letter a week . One week Eddie wrote he had a leave coming up . I 'd saved my money and vacation time . I went to San Francisco to meet him . Eddie was n't there . They forwarded the telegram from Milwaukee - the one that came from Washington to say that Eddie was n't coming at all . That Eddie was dead so I figured I 'd stay in San Francisco . i was alone , but could n't go back without Eddie . I found a job . And his insurance helped and there were theaters in San Francisco . And one night Margo Channing came to play in 'Remembrance ' and I went to see it . And - well - here I am
BIRDIE: What a story . Everything but the loodhounds snappin ' at her rea end That breaks the spell . Margo turns to her-
MARGO: There are some human experiences , Birdie , that do not take place in a vaudeville house - and that even a fifth-rate vaudevillian should understand and respect ! I want to apologize for Birdie's-
BIRDIE: You do n't have to apologize for me ! I 'm sorry if I hurt your feelings . It 's just my way of talkin '
EVE: You did n't hurt my feelings , Miss Coonan
BIRDIE: Call me Birdie . As for bein ' fifth-rate - i closed the first half for eleven years an ' you know it !
BILL: Forty-five minutes from now my plane takes off and how do I find you ? Not ready yet , looking like a junk yard-
MARGO: Thank you so much .
BILL: Is it sabotage , does my career mean nothing to you ? Have you no human consideration ?
MARGO: Show me a human and I might have !
KAREN: Bill
BILL: The air lines have clocks , even if you have n't ! I start shooting a week from Monday - Zanuck is impatient , he wants me , he needs me !
KAREN: Bill-
MARGO: Zanuck , Zanuck , Zanuck ! What are you two - lovers ?
BILL: Only in some ways . You 're prettier
MARGO: I 'm a junk yard .
KAREN: Bill !
BILL: Huh ?
KAREN: This is Eve Harrington . Bill flashes a fleeting look at Eve .
BILL: Hi . My wonderful junk yard . The mystery and dreams you find in a junk yard-
MARGO: Heaven help me , I love a psychotic .
BILL: Hello , what 's your name ?
EVE: Eve . Eve Harrington .
KAREN: You 've already met .
BILL: Where ?
KAREN: Right here . A minute ago .
BILL: That 's nice .
MARGO: She , too , is a great admirer of yours .
BIRDIE: Imagine . All this admiration in just one room .
BILL: Take your mistress into the athroom and dress her . Without comment .
KAREN: You 're not going , are you ?
EVE: I think I 'd better . It 's been - well , I can hardly find the words to say how it 's been
MARGO: No , do n't go
EVE: The four of you must have so much to say to each other - with Mr. Sampson leaving Margo , impulsively crosses to Eve .
MARGO: Stick around . Please . Tell you what - we 'll put Stanislavsky on his plane , you and I , then go somewhere and talk .
EVE: Well - if I 'm not in the way
MARGO: I wo n't be a minute .
KAREN: Lloyd , we 've got to go-
BILL: Geniuses do n't need good luck . I do .
LLOYD: I 'm not worried about you .
BILL: Keep the thought .
KAREN: Good night , Eve . I hope I see you again soon-
EVE: I 'll be at the old stand , tomorrow matinee-
KAREN: Not just that way . As a friend
EVE: I 'd like that .
LLOYD: It 's been a real pleasure , Eve .
EVE: I hope so , Mr. Richards . Good night
KAREN'S VOICE: - and I 'll never forget you , Eve . Where were we going that night , Lloyd and I ? Funny the things you emember - and the things you do n't
EVE: You said forty-seven minutes . You 'll never make it .
BILL: I told you a lie . We 'll make it easily . Margo 's got no more conception of time than a halibut .
MARGO'S VOICE: You 're supposed to zip the zipper - not me .
BIRDIE'S VOICE: Like tryin ' to zip a pretzel - stand still ! Bill grins .
BILL: What a documentary those two would make like the mongoose and the cobra-
EVE: So you 're going to Hollywood . Bill grunts in the affirmative . Silence .
BILL: Why ?
EVE: I just wondered .
BILL: Just wondered what ?
EVE: Why .
BILL: Why what ?
EVE: Why you have to go out there .
BILL: I do n't have to . I want to .
EVE: Is it the money ?
BILL: Eighty percent of it will go fo taxes .
EVE: Then why ? Why , if you 're the best and most successful young directo in the Theater-
BILL: The Theatuh , the Theatuh- - what book of rules says the Theater exists only within some ugly buildings crowded into one square mile of New York City ? O London , Paris or Vienna ? Listen , junior . And learn . Want to know what the Theater is ? A flea circus . Also opera . Also rodeos , carnivals , ballets , Indian tribal dances , Punch and Judy , a one-man and - all Theater . Whereve there 's magic and make-believe and an audience - there 's Theater . Donald Duck , Ibsen , and The Lone Ranger , Sarah Bernhardt , Poodles Hanneford , Lunt and Fontanne , Betty Grable , Rex and Wild , and Eleanora Duse . You do n't understand them all , you do n't like them all , why should you ? The Theater 's fo everybody - you included , but not exclusively - so do n't approve o disapprove . It may not be you Theater , but it 's Theater of somebody , somewhere .
EVE: I just asked a simple question .
BILL: And I shot my mouth off . Nothing personal , junior , no offense it 's just that there 's so much ushwah in this Ivory Green Room they call the Theatuh - sometimes it gets up around my chin He lies down again .
EVE: But Hollywood . You must n't stay there .
BILL: It 's only one picture deal .
EVE: So few come back
BILL: Yeah . They keep you under drugs out there with armed guards A pause .
EVE: I read George Jean Nathan every week .
BILL: Also Addison deWitt .
EVE: Every day .
BILL: You did n't have to tell me .
MARGO: I understand it 's the latest thing - just one earring . If it is n't , it 's going to be - I ca n't find the other
BILL: Throw that dreary thing away , it ores me-
EVE: Where do you suppose it could be ?
BIRDIE: It 'll show up .
MARGO: Oh well look through the wigs , maybe it got caught-
BILL: Real diamonds in a wig . The world we live in
MARGO: Where 's my coat ?
BIRDIE: Right where you left it
BILL: The seams . Margo starts to straighten them .
MARGO: Ca n't keep his eyes off my legs .
BILL: Like a nylon lemon peel-
MARGO: Byron could n't have said it more graciously here we go-
BILL: Got any messages ? What do you want me to tell Tyrone Power ?
BIRDIE: Just give him my phone number , I 'll tell him myself . Bill kisses her cheek . She kisses Bill .
MARGO: See you home Margo and Eve precede Bill out of the door
BILL: Ah
EVE: I have a suggestion . There 's really not much time left - I mean , you have n't had a minute alone yet , and - well , I could take care of everything here and meet you at the gate with the ticket if you 'd like .
BILL: I think we 'd like very much . Sure you wo n't mind ?
EVE: Of course not .
BILL: She 's quite a girl , that what's-he name
MARGO: Eve . I 'd forgotten they grew that way
BILL: The lack of pretense , that sort of strange directness and understanding-
MARGO: Did she tell you about the Theate and what it meant ?
BILL: I told her . I sounded off .
MARGO: All the religions in the world olled into one , and we 're Gods and Goddesses is n't it silly , suddenly I 've developed a big protective feeling for her - a lam loose in our big stone jungle
BILL: I understand they 've got the Indians pretty well in hand
MARGO: Bill
BILL: Huh ?
MARGO: Do n't get stuck on some glamou puss-
BILL: I 'll try .
MARGO: You 're not such a bargain , you know , conceited and thoughtless and messy-
BILL: Everybody ca n't be Gregory Peck .
MARGO: - you 're a setup for some gorgeous wide-eyed young babe .
BILL: How childish are you going to get efore you quit it ?
MARGO: I do n't want to be childish , I 'd settle for just a few years-
BILL: And cut that out right now .
MARGO: Am I going to lose you , Bill ? Am I ?
BILL: As of this moment you 're six years old
EVE: All ready .
BILL: Thanks for your help good luck .
EVE: Goodbye , Mr. Sampson . Bill puts his arms around Margo .
BILL: Knit me a muffler .
MARGO: Call me when you get in
BILL: Hey - junior Margo turns to look at him with Eve .
EVE: Do n't worry
MARGO'S VOICE: That same night we sent for Eve 's things , her few pitiful possessions she moved into the little guest room on the top floor
STAGE MANAGER: One more ?
MARGO: From now on it 's not applause - just something to do till the aisles get less crowded
EVE: I could watch you play that last scene a thousand times and cry every time-
MARGO: Performance number one thousand of this one - if I play it that long - will take place in a well-padded ooby hatch
EVE: I must say you can certainly tell Mr. Sampson 's been gone a month .
MARGO: You certainly can . Especially if you 're me between now and tomorrow morning
EVE: I mean the performance . Except fo you , you 'd think he 'd never even directed it - it 's disgraceful the way they change everything around
MARGO: Well , teacher 's away and actors will be actors
EVE: During your second act scene with your father , Roger Ferraday 's supposed to stay way upstage at the arch . He 's been coming closer down every night
MARGO: When he gets too close , I 'll spit in his eye .
BIRDIE: Something maybe grew a size bigger .
MARGO: When we get home you 're going to get into one of those girdles and act for two and half hours .
BIRDIE: I could n't get into the girdle in two an ' a half hours
EVE: You have n't noticed my latest bit of interior decorating
MARGO: Well , you 've done so much what 's new ?
EVE: The curtains . I made them myself .
MARGO: They are lovely . Are n't they lovely , Birdie ?
BIRDIE: Adorable . We now got everything a dressing room needs except a asketball hoop .
MARGO: Just because you ca n't even work a zipper . It was very thoughtful , Eve , and I appreciate it-
EVE: While you 're cleaning up , I 'll take this to the wardrobe mistress-
MARGO: Do n't bother . Mrs. Brown 'll be along for it in a minute .
EVE: No trouble at all .
BIRDIE: If I may so bold as to say something - did you ever hear the word `` union '' ?
MARGO: Behind in your dues ? How much ?
BIRDIE: I have n't got a union . I 'm slave labor .
MARGO: Well ?
BIRDIE: But the wardrobe women have got one . And next to a tenor , a wardrobe woman is the touchiest thing in show business-
MARGO: Oh-oh .
BIRDIE: She 's got two things to do - carry clothes an ' press 'em wrong - an ' just let anybody else muscle in
MARGO: Eve-
OPERATOR'S VOICE: We are ready with your call to Beverly Hills
MARGO: Call , what call ?
OPERATOR'S VOICE: It this Templeton 89970 ? Miss Margo Channing ?
MARGO: That 's right , but I do n't understand-
OPERATOR'S VOICE: We are ready with the call you placed for 12 midnight , California time , to Mr. William Sampson in Beverly Hills
MARGO: I placed ?
OPERATOR'S VOICE: Go ahead , please
BILL'S VOICE: Margo ! What a wonderful surprise !
BILL: What a thoughtful , ever-lovin ' thing to do-
MARGO: Bill ? Have I gone crazy , Bill ?
BILL: You 're my girl , are n't you ?
MARGO: That I am
BILL: Then you 're crazy .
MARGO: When - when are you coming back ?
BILL: I leave in a week - the picture 's all wrapped up , we previewed last night those previews . Like opening out of town , but terrifying . There 's nothing you can do , you 're trapped , you 're in a tin can-
MARGO: - in a tin can , cellophane o wrapped in a Navajo blanket , I want you home
BILL: You in a hurry ?
MARGO: A big hurry , be quick about it - so good night , darling , and sleep tight
BILL: Wait a minute ! You ca n't hang up , you have n't even said it-
MARGO: Bill , you know how much I do - but over the phone , now really , that 's kid stuff
BILL: Kid stuff or not , it does n't happen every day , I want to heat it - and if you wo n't say it , you can sing it
MARGO: Sing it ?
BILL: Sure ! Like the Western Union boys used to do Margo 's eyes pop . Her jaw and the phone sag .
MARGO: Bill Bill , it 's your birthday .
BILL: And who remembered it ? Who was there on the dot , at twelve midnight ? Margo knows damn well it was n't she .
MARGO: Happy birthday , darling
BILL: The reading could have been better , ut you said it - now `` many happy eturns of the day ''
MARGO: Many happy returns of the day
BILL: I get a party , do n't I ?
MARGO: Of course , birthday and welcome home who 'll I ask ?
BILL: It 's no secret , I know all about the party - Eve wrote me
MARGO: She did ?
BILL: She has n't missed a week since I left - but you know all that , you probably tell her what to write anyway , I sent her a list of people to ask - check with her .
MARGO: Yeah I will .
BILL: How is Eve ? Okay ?
MARGO: Okay .
BILL: I love you
MARGO: I 'll check with Eve
BILL: What ?
MARGO: I love you too . Good night , darling-
BILL: See you
MARGO: Birdie-
BIRDIE: Hmm ?
MARGO: You do n't like Eve , do you ?
BIRDIE: Do you want an argument or an answer ?
MARGO: An answer .
BIRDIE: No .
MARGO: Why not ?
BIRDIE: Now you want an argument .
MARGO: She works hard .
BIRDIE: Night an ' day .
MARGO: She 's loyal and efficient-
BIRDIE: Like an agent with one client .
MARGO: She thinks only for me does n't she ?
BIRDIE: Well let 's say she thinks only about you , anyway
MARGO: How do you mean that ? Birdie stops whatever it is she 's doing .
BIRDIE: I 'll tell you how . Like - let 's see - like she was studyin ' you , like you were a play or a book or a set of blueprints . How you walk , talk , think , eat , sleep-
MARGO: I 'm sure that 's very flattering , Birdie , and I 'm sure there 's nothing wrong with that !
EVE: Good morning !
MARGO: Very becoming . It looks better on you than it did on me .
EVE: I can imagine you know , all it needed was some taking in here and letting out there - are you sure you wo n't want it yourself ?
MARGO: Quite sure . I find it just a bit too - too `` Seventeenish '' for me
EVE: Oh , come now , as though you were an old lady I 'm on my way . Is there anything more you 've thought of- ?
MARGO: There 's the script to go back to the Guild-
EVE: I 've got it .
MARGO: - and those checks or whatever it is for the income tax man .
EVE: Right here .
MARGO: It seems I ca n't think of a thing you have n't thought of
EVE: That 's my job . See you at tea time
MARGO: Eve by any chance , did you place a call from me to Bill for midnight California time ?
EVE: Oh , golly . And I forgot to tell you-
MARGO: Yes , dear . You forgot all about it .
EVE: Well , I was sure you 'd want to , of course , being his birthday , and you 've been so busy these past few days , and last night I meant to tell you before you went out with the Richards - and I guess I was asleep when you got home
MARGO: Yes , I guess you were . It - it was very thoughtful of you , Eve .
EVE: Mr. Sampson 's birthday . I certainly would n't forget that . You 'd neve forgive me . As a matter of fact , I sent him a telegram myself
KAREN'S VOICE: I saw Eve quite often after ou first meeting , but we never really talked again - until the party Margo gave for Bill when he eturned from Hollywood
KAREN: Now who 's show up at this hour ? It 's time people went home - hold that coat up whose is it ?
EVE: Some Hollywood movie star , he plane got in late .
KAREN: Discouraging , is n't it ? Women with furs like that where it never gets cold
EVE: Hollywood .
KAREN: Tell me , Eve - how are things with you ? Happy ?
EVE: There should be a new word fo happiness . Being here with Miss Channing has been - I just ca n't say , she 's been so wonderful , done so much for me-
KAREN: Lloyd says Margo compensates fo underplaying on the stage by overplaying reality next to that sable , my new mink seems like an old bedjacket you 've done your share , Eve . You 've worked wonders with Margo She starts out .
EVE: Mrs. Richards .
KAREN: Karen .
EVE: Karen is n't it awful , I 'm about to ask you for another favor - afte all you 've already done .
KAREN: Nobody 's done so much , Eve , you 've got to stop thinking of yourself as one of the Hundred Neediest Cases what is it ?
EVE: Well Miss Channing 's affairs are in such good shape there is n't enough to keep me as busy as I should be , really - not that I 've ever considered anything that would take me away from her but the other day - when I heard Mr. Fabian tell Miss Channing that he understudy was going to have a aby , and they 'd have to replace her She looks down at the coverlet once more .
KAREN: you want to be Margo 's new understudy .
EVE: I do n't let myself think about it , even- - but I do know the part so well , and every bit of the staging , there 'd be no need to break in a new girl- - but suppose I had to go on one night ? To an audience that came to see Margo Channing . No , I could n't possibly
KAREN: Do n't worry too much about that . Margo just does n't miss performances . If she can walk , crawl or roll - she plays .
EVE: The show must go on .
KAREN: No , dear . Margo must go on . As a matter of fact , I see no eason why you should n't be Margo 's understudy
EVE: Do you think Miss Channing would approve ?
KAREN: I think she would cheer .
EVE: But Mr. Richards and Mr. Sampson-
KAREN: They 'll do as they 're told . Eve smiles a little . A pause .
EVE: Then - would you talk to Mr. Fabian about it ?
KAREN: Of course .
EVE: You wo n't forget it ?
KAREN: I wo n't forget .
EVE: I seem to be forever thanking you for something , do n't I ?
BIRDIE: The bed looks like a dead animal act . Which one is sables ?
KAREN: But she just got here
BIRDIE: She 's on her way . With half the men in the joint . It 's only a fur coat
KAREN: What did you expect - live sables ?
BIRDIE: A diamond collar , gold sleeves - you know , picture people They start out .
KAREN: Bill says actors out there eat just as infrequently as here-
BIRDIE: They can always grab oranges off trees . This you ca n't do in Times Square
ADDISON: Every now and then , some elde statesman of the Theater or cinema assures the public that actors and actresses are just plain folk . Ignoring the fact that thei greatest attraction to the public is their complete lack of esemblance to normal human beings .
MISS CASWELL: Now there 's something a girl could make sacrifices for .
BILL'S VOICE: And probably has .
MISS CASWELL: Sable .
MAX: Did you say sable - or Gable ?
MISS CASWELL: Either one .
ADDISON: It is senseless to insist that theatrical folk in New York , Hollywood and London are no different from the good people of Des Moines , Chillicothe and Liverpool . By and large , we are concentrated gatherings of neurotics , egomaniacs , emotional misfits , and precocious children-
MAX: Gable . Why a feller like that do n't come East to do a play
BILL: He must be miserable , the life he lives out there-
ADDISON: These so-called abnormalities - they 're our stock in trade , they make us actors , writers , directors , et cetera in the first place-
MAX: Answer me this . What makes a man ecome a producer ?
ADDISON: What makes a man walk into a lion cage with nothing but a chair ?
MAX: This answer satisfies me a hundred percent .
ADDISON: We all have abnormality in common . We are a breed apart from the rest of the humanity , we Theater folk . We are the original displaced personalities
BILL: You do n't have to read his column tomorrow - you just heard it . I do n't agree , Addison
ADDISON: That happens to be your particula abnormality .
BILL: Oh , I admit there 's a screwball element in the Theater . It sticks out , it 's got spotlights on it and a brass band . But it is n't basic , it is n't standard - if it were , the Theater could n't survive
MISS CASWELL: Oh , waiter The butler goes right by .
ADDISON: That is n't a waiter , my dear . That 's a butler .
MISS CASWELL: Well , I ca n't yell `` Oh , butler , '' can I ? Maybe somebody 's name is Butler
ADDISON: You have a point . An idiotic one , ut a point .
MISS CASWELL: I do n't want to make trouble . All I want is a drink .
MAX: Leave me get you one
MISS CASWELL: Oh , thank you , Mr. Fabian . Max leaves with her empty glass .
ADDISON: Well done . I see your career rising in the East like the sun you were saying ?
BILL: I was saying that the Theater is nine-tenths hard work . Work done the hard way - by sweat , application and craftsmanship . I 'll agree to this - that to be a good actor , actress , or anything else in the Theater , means wanting to be that more than anything else in the world
EVE: Yes . Yes , it does .
BILL: It means concentration of ambition , desire , and sacrifice such as no other profession demands And I 'll agree that the man or woman who accepts those terms ca n't be ordinary , ca n't be - just someone . To give so much for almost always so little
EVE: So little . So little , did you say ? Why , if there 's nothing else - there 's applause . It 's like - like waves of love coming over the footlights and wrapping you up . Imagine To know , every night , that different hundreds of people love you they smile , their eyes shine - you 've pleased them , they want you , you belong . Just that alone is worth anything
MARGO: Do n't get up . And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother .
EVE: I 'm sorry , I did n't mean to-
BILL: Outside of a beehive , Margo , you ehavior would hardly be considered either queenly or motherly !
MARGO: You 're in a beehive , pal , did n't you know ? We 're all busy little ees , full of stings , making honey day and night- - are n't we , honey ?
KAREN: Margo , really
MARGO: Please do n't play governess , Karen , I have n't your unyielding good taste , I wish I 'd gone to Radcliffe too but father would n't hear of it - he needed help at the notions counter I 'm being rude now , are n't I ? OR should I say `` ai n't I '' ?
ADDISON: You 're maudlin and full of self pity . You 're magnificent . Max has come up with Miss Caswell 's drink .
LLOYD: How about calling it a night ?
MARGO: And you pose as a playwright . A situation pregnant with possibilities - and all you can think of is everybody to go to sleep
BILL: It 's a good thought .
MARGO: It wo n't play .
KAREN: As a nonprofessional , I think it 's an excellent idea . Undramatic , but practical
MARGO: Happy little housewife
BILL: Cut it out .
MARGO: This is my house , not a theater ! In my house you 're a guest , not a director- !
KAREN: Then stop being a star - start treating your guests as you supporting cast !
ADDISON: Hear , hear
LLOYD: Now let 's not get into a big hassle-
KAREN: It 's about time we did ! It 's about time Margo realized that what 's attractive on stage need not necessarily be attractive off .
MARGO: All right ! I 'm going to bed . You be the host . It 's your party . Happy Birthday , welcome home , and we-who-are-about-to-die-salute-you . She starts upstairs .
BILL: Need any help ?
MARGO: To put me to bed ? Take my clothes off , hold my head , tuck me in , turn off the lights , tiptoe out ? eve would . Would n't you , Eve ?
EVE: If you 'd like .
MARGO: I would n't like .
MAX: I forgot I had it .
MISS CASWELL: I did n't . Bill gets up and goes after Margo
ADDISON: Too bad ! We 'll miss the third act . They 're going to play it off stage . Eve turns away abruptly , in sudden tears .
LLOYD: Coming ?
KAREN: In a minute She crosses to Eve , puts an arm around her .
EVE: But there must be some reason , something I 've done without knowing
KAREN: The reason is Margo and do n't try to figure it out . Einstein could n't .
EVE: If I thought I 'd offended her , of all people-
KAREN: Eve . I 'm fond of Margo too . But I know Margo . And every now and then there is nothing I want to do so much as to kick her right square in the pants .
EVE: Well - if she 's got to pick on someone , I 'd just as soon it was me . Karen smiles back . She joins Lloyd and Max .
LLOYD: Max is going to drop us
ADDISON: I 've often wondered , Max , why you other with a chauffeur and limousine in New York City .
MAX: In my case it 's necessary . Too many taxi drivers write plays .
ADDISON: And too many of them are produced .
MISS CASWELL: Let 's go sit by the piano .
ADDISON: You have me confused with Dan Dailey . You go sit by the piano . And you come sit by me . Good night .
EVE: Karen you wo n't forget , will you ? What we talked about before ?
KAREN: No , Eve , I wo n't forget
MARGO'S VOICE: Bill 's welcoming-home-birthday party a night to go down in history . Like the Chicago Fire - o the Massacre of the Huguenots . Even efore the party started , I could smell disaster in the air
BIRDIE: You all put together ?
MARGO: My back 's open . Did the extra help get here ?
BIRDIE: There 's some loose characters dressed like maids and butlers . Who 'd you call - the William Morris Agency ?
MARGO: You 're not being funny , I could get actors for less . What about the food ?
BIRDIE: The caterer had to back for hors d'oeuvres- Voila .
MARGO: That French ventriloquist taught you a lot , did n't he ?
BIRDIE: There was nothing he did n't know . There 's a message from the artender . Does Miss Channing know we ordered domestic gin by mistake ?
MARGO: The only thing I ordered by mistake is the guests . They 're domestic , too , and they do n't care what they drink as long as it burns where 's Bill ? He 's late .
BIRDIE: Late for what ?
MARGO: Do n't be dense . The party .
BIRDIE: I ai n't dense . And he 's been here twenty minutes .
MARGO: Well , I certainly think it 's odd he has n't even come up
BILL: `` Do n't let it worry you , '' said the cameraman , `` Even DeMille could n't see anything looking through the wrong end- '' So that was the first and last time-
MARGO: Do n't let me kill the point . O is n't it a story for grownups ?
BILL: You 've heard it . About when I looked through the wrong end of a camera finder .
MARGO: Remind me to tell you about when I looked into the heart of an artichoke .
EVE: I 'd like to hear it .
MARGO: Some snowy night in front of the fire in the meantime , while we 're on the subject , will you check about the hors d'oeuvres ? The caterer forgot them , the varnish was n't dry or something
EVE: Of course .
BILL: Looks like I 'm going to have a very fancy party
MARGO: I thought you were going to be late-
BILL: When I 'm guest of honor ?
MARGO: I had no idea you were even here .
BILL: I ran into Eve on my way upstairs ; she told me you were dressing .
MARGO: That never stopped you before .
BILL: Well , we started talking , she wanted to know all about Hollywood , she seemed so interested
MARGO: She 's a girl of so many interests .
BILL: It 's a pretty rare quality these days .
MARGO: She 's a girl of so many rare qualities .
BILL: So she seems .
MARGO: So you 've pointed out , so often . So many qualities , so often . He loyalty , efficiency , devotion , warmth , affection - and so young . So young and so fair Bill catches the drift . Incredulously .
BILL: I ca n't believe you 're making this up - it sounds like something out of an old Clyde Fitch play
MARGO: Clyde Fitch , thought you may not think so , was well before my time !
BILL: I 've always denied the legend that you were in 'Our American Cousin ' the night Lincoln was shot
MARGO: I do n't think that 's funny !
BILL: Of course it 's funny - this is all too laughable to be anything else . You know what I think about this - this age obsession of yours - and now this ridiculous attempt to whip yourself up into a jealous froth ecause I spent ten minutes with a stage-struck kid-
MARGO: Twenty minutes !
BILL: Thirty minutes , forty minutes ! What of it ?
MARGO: Stage-struck kid she 's a young lady - of qualities . And I 'll have you know I 'm fed up with both the young lady and her qualities ! Studying me as if - as if I were a play or a set of blueprints ! How I walk , talk , think , eat , sleep !
BILL: Now how can you take offense at a kid trying in every way to be as much like her ideal as possible !
MARGO: Stop calling her a kid ! It so happens there are particula aspects of my life to which I would like to maintain sole and exclusive ights and privileges !
BILL: For instance what ?
MARGO: For instance - you !
BILL: This is my cue to take you in my arms and reassure you - but I 'm not going to . I 'm too mad-
MARGO: - guilty .
BILL: Mad ! Darling , there are certain characteristics for which you are famous - on stage and off . I love you for some of them - and in spite of others . I have n't let those ecome too important to me . They 're part of your equipment for getting along in what is laughably called out environment - you 've got to keep your teeth sharp . All right . But you will not sharpen them on me - or on Eve
MARGO: What about her teeth ? What about her fangs ?
BILL: She has n't cut them yet , and you know it ! So when you start judging an idealistic dreamy-eyed kid by the barroom , Benzedrine standards of this megalomaniac society - I wo n't have it ! Eve Harrington has never by word , look , thought o suggestion indicated anything to me ut her adoration for you and he happiness at our being in love ! And to intimate anything else does n't spell jealousy to me - it spells a paranoic insecurity that you should e ashamed of !
MARGO: Cut ! Print it ! What happens in the next reel ? Do I get dragged off screaming to the snake pit ?
EVE'S VOICE: Miss Channing ?
EVE: The hors d'oeuvres are here . Is there anything else I can do ?
MARGO: Thank you , Eve . I 'd like a Martini - very dry .
BILL: I 'll get it . What 'll you have ? Eve , involuntarily , looks to Margo .
MARGO: A milkshake ? Eve smiles , turns to Bill .
EVE: A Martini . Very dry , please
KAREN: Do n't bother , I can take it up myself
EVE: Please
LLOYD: I like that girl . That quality of quiet graciousness
MARGO: Among so many quiet qualities . They start for the living room .
KAREN: Margo , nothing you 've ever done has made me as happy as your taking Eve in
MARGO: I 'm so happy you 're happy .
MAX: Look , you have n't been running a settlement house exactly - the kid 's earned her way . You had a pretty mixed-up inventory when she took over - merchandise laying all over the shop
LLOYD: You 've got Margo mixed up with a five-and-ten-cent store
MARGO: Make it Bergdorf Goodman and now everything is on its proper shelf , eh , Max ? Done up in little ribbons . I could die right now and nobody 'd e confused . How about you , Max ?
MAX: How about me what ? They 've come to a halt near the fireplace .
MARGO: Supposed you dropped dead . What about your inventory ?
MAX: I ai n't gon na die . Not with a hit .
KAREN: This is the most ghoulish conversation
MARGO: Thank you .
BILL: Nothing , really
MARGO: The kid - junior , that is - will be ight down . Unless you 'd like to take her drink up to her
BILL: I can always get a fresh one . Karen - you 're a Gibson girl
LLOYD: The general atmosphere is very Macbethish . What has or is about to happen ?
MARGO: What is he talking about ?
BILL: Macbeth .
KAREN: We know you , we 've seen you before like this . Is it over - or just eginning ? Margo surveys them all .
MARGO: Fasten your seat belts . It 's going to be a bumpy night .
WOMAN #1: Margo , darling !
WOMAN #2: Darling !
MARGO: Darlings
ADDISON: Dear Margo . You were an unforgettable Peter Pan - you must play it again , soon . You remembe Miss Caswell ?
MARGO: I do not . How do you do ?
MISS CASWELL: We never met . That 's why .
ADDISON: Miss Caswell is an actress . A graduate of Copacabana School of Dramatic Arts . Ah Eve .
EVE: Good evening , Mr. deWitt .
MARGO: I had no idea you knew each other .
ADDISON: This must be , at long last , ou formal introduction . Until now we have met only in passing
MISS CASWELL: That 's how you met me . In passing .
MARGO: Eve , this is an old friend of Mr. deWitt 's mother - Miss Caswell , Miss Harrington Addison , I 've been wanting you to meet Eve for the longest time-
ADDISON: It could only have been you natural timidity that kept you from mentioning it
MARGO: You 've heard of her great interest in the Theater-
ADDISON: We have that in common .
MARGO: Then you two must have a long talk-
EVE: I 'm afraid Mr. deWitt would find me oring before too long .
MISS CASWELL: You wo n't bore him , honey . You wo n't even get to talk .
ADDISON: Claudia dear , come closer . This is Max Fabian . He is a producer . Go do yourself some good .
MISS CASWELL: Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits ?
ADDISON: Because that is what they are . Go make him happy .
MARGO: Amen .
PIANIST: I just played it .
MARGO: Play it again .
PIANIST: But that was the fourth straight time .
MARGO: Then this will be five . I suppose you think I 'm too drunk to count .
PIANIST: No . You 're just crazy about `` Liebestraum . ''
MARGO: `` Liebestraum . ''
PIANIST: Look , Miss Channing it 's kind of depressing . If you do n't mind my saying so , everybody 's kind of dying on the vine
MARGO: My dear Horowitz . In the first place , I 'm paying you union scale . Second , it 's my piano . Third , if everybody does n't like kind of dying on the vine , they can get off the vine and go home . `` Liebestraum . ''
BILL: Many of your guests have been wondering when they may be permitted to view the body . Where has it been laid out ?
MARGO: It has n't been laid out , we have n't finished with the embalming . As a matter of fact , you 're looking at it . The remains of Margo Channing . Sitting up . It is my last wish to e buried sitting up .
BILL: Would n't you feel more natural taking a bow ?
MARGO: You know nothing about feelings , natural or unnatural .
BILL: Then without feeling , your guests were also wondering whether the music could n't be a shade more on the - shall we say , happier side ?
MARGO: If my guests do not like it here , I suggest they accompany you to the nursery where I 'm sure you will all feel more at home .
MAX: Margo . You by any chance got icarbonate of soda in the house ?
MARGO: Poor Max . Heartburn ? It 's that Miss Caswell . I do n't know why she does n't give Addison heartburn .
BILL: No heart to burn .
MARGO: Everybody has a heart - except some people . Of course I 've got bicarb . There 's a box in the pantry . We 'll put you name on it . Max Fabian . It 'll say there . Always . Just for you .
MAX: Let the rest of the world beat their brains out for a buck . It 's friends that count . And I got friends .
MARGO: I love you , Max . I really mean it . I love you . Come to the pantry .
MAX: She loves me like a father . Also , she 's loaded .
MARGO: Here you are , Maxie dear . One good urp and you 'll be rid of that Miss Caswell
MAX: The situation I 'm in ai n't the kind you can belch your way out . I made a promise
MARGO: Miss Caswell ? What ?
MAX: An audition for the part we 're eplacing . What's-her-name , you sister He adds water to the bicarb .
MARGO: Well , if she can act , she might not e bad . She looks like she might urn down a plantation
MAX: I feel right now like there 's one urning in me .
MARGO: When 's the audition ?
MAX: A couple of weeks .
MARGO: I tell you what . Why do n't I read with her ?
MAX: Would you ?
MARGO: Anything to help you out , Max .
MAX: This is real cooperation . I appreciate it .
MARGO: Not at all . And you could do me a ig favor , if you would-
MAX: All you got to do is name it .
MARGO: Give Eve Harrington job in you office . Max burps .
MAX: Margo , I would n't think of taking that girl away from you
MARGO: You said yourself my inventory was in good shape - all of my merchandise put away . To keep he here with nothing to do - I 'd be standing in her way and you need her , Max .
MAX: But what could she do ?
MARGO: She 'd be a great help - read scripts , interview people you have to see , get rid of the ones you do n't have to you 'd be a man of leisure-
MAX: Well
MARGO: Think of your health , Max - more time to relax out in the fresh ai at a race track
MAX: I do n't know if this would be a wise move
MARGO: Promise .
MAX: I promise .
MARGO: That 's my Max . Lloyd enters , looking for her .
LLOYD: There you are , both of you . Max , Karen has decided it 's time to go .
MARGO: Where is she ?
LLOYD: Up in the room .
MAX: If you 'll excuse me- I 'll tell Miss Caswell He goes out . A pause .
MARGO: Who 's left out there ?
LLOYD: Too many . And you 've got a new guest . A movie star from Hollywood .
MARGO: Shucks . And my autograph book is at the cleaners . Another pause .
LLOYD: Not exactly . Sometimes , though , I wish I understood you better .
MARGO: When you do , let me in on it .
LLOYD: I will . Another pause .
MARGO: How 's the new one coming ?
LLOYD: The play ? All right , I guess
MARGO: `` Cora . '' She 's - still a girl of twenty ?
LLOYD: Twentyish . It is n't important .
MARGO: Do n't you think it 's about time it ecame important ?
LLOYD: How do you mean ?
MARGO: Do n't be evasive .
LLOYD: Margo , you have n't got any age .
MARGO: Miss Channing is ageless . Spoken like a press agent .
LLOYD: I know what I 'm talking about , after all they 're my plays
MARGO: Spoken like an author . Lloyd , I 'm not twentyish . I am not thirtyish . Three months ago , I was forty years old . Forty . Four oh . That slipped out , I had n't quite made up my mind to admit it . Now I feel as if I 'd suddenly taken all my clothes off
LLOYD: Week after week , to thousands of people , you 're as young as you want
MARGO: as young as they want , you mean . And I 'm not interested in whether thousands of people think I 'm six or six hundred-
LLOYD: Just one person . Is n't that so ? You know what this is all about , do n't you ? It has very little to do with whether you should play `` Cora '' - it has everything to do with the fact that you 've had another fight with Bill . A pause . Margo closes the box of bicarb .
MARGO: Bill 's thirty-two . He looks thirty two . He looked it five years ago , he 'll look it twenty years from now . I hate men . Do n't worry , Lloyd . I 'll play you play . I 'll wear rompers and come in olling a hoop if you like let 's go say good night .
EVE: Imagine to know , every night , that different hundreds of people love you They smile , their eyes shine - you 've pleased them , they want you , you belong . Anything 's worth that .
MARGO: Do n't get up . And please stop acting as if I were the queen mother . And as Margo speaks - or before - we
MARGO'S VOICE: What was it the wise man said - `` This , too , will pass away '' ? Two weeks later - the day of the audition - all was well with Bill and me , the world and me-
MARGO: Why so remote , Addison ? I should think you 'd be at the side of you protegee , lending her moral support
ADDISON: Miss Caswell , at the moment , is where I can lend no support - moral or otherwise .
MARGO: The ladies ' - shall we say - lounge ?
ADDISON: Being violently ill to her tummy .
MARGO: It 's good luck before an audition . She 'll be all right once it starts . She heads for the auditorium .
ADDISON: Miss Caswell got lucky too late . The audition is over .
MARGO: Over ? It ca n't be . I 've come to ead with her . I promised Max .
ADDISON: The audition was called for 2 30 . It is now nearly four .
MARGO: Is it really ? I must start wearing a watch , I never do , you know who read with Miss Caswell ? Bill ? Lloyd ? Well , it could n't have been Max ! Who ?
ADDISON: Naturally enough , your understudy .
MARGO: I consider it highly unnatural to allow a girl in an advanced state of pregnancy-
ADDISON: I refer to your new and unpregnant understudy . Eve Harrington .
MARGO: Eve ! My understudy
ADDISON: Did n't you know ?
MARGO: Of course I knew .
ADDISON: It just slipped your mind . A moment of silence .
MARGO: How how was Miss Caswell ?
ADDISON: Frankly , I do n't remember .
MARGO: Just slipped your mind .
ADDISON: Completely . Nor , I am sure , could anyone else present tell you how Miss Caswell read or whether Miss Caswell read or rode a pogo stick .
MARGO: Was she that bad ? As Addison speaks , he rises with excitement .
ADDISON: Margo , as you know , i have lived in the Theater as a Trappist monk lives in his faith . I have no othe world , no other life - and once in a great while I experience that moment of Revelation for which all true believers wait and pray . You were one . Jeanne Eagels another Paula Wessely Hayes - there are others , three or four . Eve Harrington will be among them
MARGO: I take it she read well .
ADDISON: It was n't reading , it was a performance . Brilliant , vivid , something made of music and fire
MARGO: How nice .
ADDISON: In time she 'll be what you are .
MARGO: A mass of music and fire . That 's me . An old kazoo and some sparkles . Tell me - was Bill swept away , too , or were you too full of Revelation to notice ?
ADDISON: Bill did n't say - but Lloyd was eside himself . He listened to his play as if someone else had written it , he said , it sounded so fresh , so new , so full of meaning
MARGO: How nice for Lloyd . And how nice for Eve . How nice for everybody .
ADDISON: Eve was incredibly modest . She insisted that no credit was due her , that Lloyd felt as he did only ecause she read lines exactly as he had written them .
MARGO: The implication being that I have not been reading them as written .
ADDISON: To the best of my recollection , neither your name nor you performance entered the conversation . Miss Caswell appears , uncertain , in the b.g .
MISS CASWELL: Like I just swam the English Channel . Now what ?
ADDISON: You next move , it seems to me , should be toward television .
MISS CASWELL: Tell me this . Do they have auditions for television ?
ADDISON: That 's all television is , my dear . Nothing but auditions . He takes her toward the street .
MARGO: Terribly sorry I 'm late , lunch was long and I could n't find a cab - where 's Miss Caswell , shall we start ? Oh , hello , Eve
EVE: Hello , Miss Channing .
MARGO: How are you making out in Mr. Fabian 's office ? I do n't want you working the child too hard , Max - just because you promised . As you see , I kept my promise , too
BILL: It 's all over .
MARGO: What 's all over ?
BILL: The audition .
MARGO: Eve ? How enchanting Wherever did you get the idea of having Eve read with Miss Caswell ?
LLOYD: She 's your understudy .
MARGO: Eve ? Eve , my understudy ? But I had no idea
LLOYD: I thought you knew She was put on over a week ago-
MARGO: It seems almost inconceivable that I have n't seen her backstage , but with so many people loitering around well , well . So Eve is not working for Max after all- - Max you sly puss . Max submerges further in his seat .
EVE: Miss Channing , I ca n't tell you how glad I am that you arrived so late .
MARGO: Really , Eve ? Why ?
EVE: Well , if you 'd been here to begin with , I would n't have dared to read at all
MARGO: Why not ?
EVE: and if you 'd come in the middle , I 'd have stopped , I could n't have gone on-
MARGO: What a pity , all that fire and music being turned off
BILL: What fire and music ?
MARGO: You would n't understand . How was Miss Caswell ?
LLOYD: Back to Copacabana . But Eve . Margo , let me tell you about Eve-
EVE: I was dreadful , Miss Channing , elieve me - I have no right to be anyone 's understudy , much less yours
MARGO: I 'm sure you underestimate yourself , Eve . You always do . You were about to tell me about Eve
LLOYD: You 'd have been proud of her .
MARGO: I 'm sure .
LLOYD: She was a revelation
MARGO: To you , too ?
LLOYD: What do you mean ?
MARGO: I mean , among other things , that it must have been a revelation to have your twenty-four-year-old characte played by twenty-four-year-old actress
LLOYD: That 's beside the point .
MARGO: It 's right to the point . Also that it must have sounded so new and fresh to you - so exciting to have the lines read as you wrote them !
BILL: Addison- !
MARGO: So full of meaning , fire and music !
LLOYD: You 've been talking to that venomous fishwife , Addison deWitt-
MARGO: - in this case , apparently , as trustworthy as the World Almanac !
LLOYD: You knew when you came in that the audition was over , that Eve was your understudy ! Playing that childish game of cat and mouse
MARGO: Not mouse , never mouse ! If anything - rat !
LLOYD: You have a genius for making arroom brawl out of a perfectly innocent misunderstanding at most !
MARGO: Perfectly innocent ! Man have been hanged for less ! I 'm lied to , attacked behind my back , accused of eading your silly dialogue inaccurately - as if it were Holy Gospel !
LLOYD: I never said it was !
MARGO: Then you listened as if someone else had written you play - whom did you have in mind ? Sherwood ? Arthur Miller ? Beaumont and Fletcher ? Max has edged his way to the stage .
MAX: May I say a word ?
LLOYD: No ! What makes you think that eithe Miller or Sherwood would stand fo the nonsense I take from you - you 'd better stick to Beaumont and Fletcher ! They 've been dead fo three hundred years !
MARGO: And they 're getting bette performances today than they eve got ! All playwrights should be dead for three hundred years !
LLOYD: That would solve none of thei problems - because actresses neve die ! The stars never die and neve change ! He starts up the aisle with Max .
MARGO: You can change this star any time you want ! For a new , fresh , exciting one fully equipped with fire and music ! Any time you want - starting with tonight 's performance !
MAX: This is for lawyers to talk about , this concerns a run-of-the-play contract , and this you ca n't ewrite or ad lib !
MARGO: Are you threatening me with legal action , Mr. Fabian ?
MAX: Are you breaking the contract ?
MARGO: Answer my question !
MAX: Who am I to threaten ? I 'm a dying man .
MARGO: I did n't hear you .
MAX: I said I 'm a dying man !
MARGO: Not until the last drugstore has sold its last pill !
LLOYD: I shall never understand the weird process by which a body with a voice suddenly fancies itself a mind ! Just when exactly does an actress decide they 're her words she 's saying and her thoughts she 's expressing ?
MARGO: Usually at the point when she 's got to rewrite and rethink them to keep the audience from leaving the theater !
LLOYD: It 's about time the piano realized it has not written the concerto !
MARGO: And you , I take it , are the Paderewski who plays his concerto on me , the piano ? Where is Princess Fire-and-Music ?
BILL: Who ?
MARGO: The kid . Junior .
BILL: Gone .
MARGO: I must have frightened her away .
BILL: I would n't be surprised . Sometimes you frighten me .
MARGO: Poor little flower . Just dropped her petals and folded her tent
BILL: Do n't mix your metaphors .
MARGO: I mix what I like .
BILL: Okay . Mix .
MARGO: I 'm nothing but a body with a voice . No mind .
BILL: What a body , what a voice .
MARGO: The ex-ship news ' reporter . No ody , no voice , all mind !
BILL: The gong rang . The fight 's over . Calm down .
MARGO: I will not calm down !
BILL: Do n't calm down .
MARGO: You 're being terribly tolerant , are n't you ?
BILL: I 'm trying terribly hard .
MARGO: Well , you need n't . I will not be tolerated . And I will not be plotted against !
BILL: Here we go
MARGO: Such nonsense , what do you all take me for - little Nell from the country ? Been my understudy fo over a week without my knowing , carefully hidden no doubt-
BILL: Now do n't get carried away-
MARGO: - shows up for an audition when everyone knew I 'd be here and gives a performance ! Out of nowhere - gives a performance !
BILL: You 've been all through that with Lloyd-
MARGO: The playwright does n't make the performance - and it does n't just happen ! And this one did n't - full of fire and music and whatnot , it was carefully rehearsed I have no doubt , over and over , full of those Bill Sampson touches !
BILL: I am sick and tired of these paranoiac outbursts !
MARGO: Paranoiac !
BILL: I did n't know Eve Harrington was your understudy until half past two this afternoon !
MARGO: Tell that to Dr. Freud ! Along with the rest of it
BILL: No , I 'll tell it to you ! For the last time , I 'll tell it to you . Because you 've got to stop hurting yourself , and me , and the two of us y these paranoiac tantrums !
MARGO: That word again ! I do n't even know what it means
BILL: It 's time you found out . I love you . I love you . You 're a beautiful and intelligent woman- - a beautiful and intelligent woman and a great actress- - at the peak of her career . You have every reason for happiness- - every reason , but due to some strange , uncontrollable , unconscious drive you permit the slightest action of a kid- - kid like Eve to turn you into a hysterical , screaming harpy ! Now once and for all , stop it ! Margo seems quiet . He gets up . She sits up .
MARGO: It 's obvious you 're not a woman .
BILL: I 've been aware of that for some time .
MARGO: Well , I am .
BILL: I 'll say .
MARGO: Do n't be condescending .
BILL: Come on , get up . I 'll buy you a drink .
MARGO: I admit I may have seen bette days , but I am still not to be had for the price of a cocktail - like a salted peanut .
BILL: Margo , let 's make peace .
MARGO: The terms are too high . Unconditional surrender .
BILL: Just being happy ? Just stopping all this nonsense about Eve - and Eve and me ?
MARGO: It 's not nonsense .
BILL: But if I tell you it is - as I just did . Were you listening to me ? Is n't that enough ?
MARGO: I wish it were .
BILL: Then what would be enough ? If we were married ?
MARGO: I would n't want you to marry me just to prove something .
BILL: You 've had so many reasons for not wanting to marry me Margo , tell me what 's behind all this .
MARGO: I - I do n't know , Bill . Just a feeling , I do n't know
BILL: I think you do know but you wo n't or ca n't tell me . I said before it was going to be my last try , and I meant it . I ca n't think of anything else to do . I wish I could . We usually wind up screaming and throwing things as the curtain comes down . Then it comes up again and everything 's fine . But not this time . You know there is n't a playwright in the world who could make me elieve this would happen between two adult people . Goodbye , Margo . No word from her . He starts away .
MARGO: Bill where are you going ? To find Eve ?
BILL: That suddenly makes the whole thing elievable .
KAREN'S VOICE: On the day of the audition , my iggest worry was to keep a banana looking part of an eggplant then Lloyd came home . It was right after his brawl with Margo
KAREN: Lloyd , what happened ?
LLOYD: Up to here ! That 's where I 've got it - up to here ! Of all the sta idden , presumptuous , hysterical-
KAREN: Margo , again
LLOYD: And again and again ! Two hours late for the audition , to begin with-
KAREN: That 's on time for Margo .
LLOYD: Then a childish , heavy-handed outine about not knowing Eve was her understudy-
KAREN: It 's just possible she did n't
LLOYD: Of course she knew ! For one thing , Addison told her how superbly Eve had read the part- ! Karen , let me tell you about Eve . She 's got everything - a born actress . Sensitive , understanding , young , exciting , vibrant-
KAREN: - do n't run out of adjectives , dear .
LLOYD: - everything a playwright first thinks of wanting to write about until his play becomes a vehicle for Miss Channing
KAREN: Margo has n't done badly by it .
LLOYD: Margo . Margo 's great . She knows it . That 's the trouble . She can play Peck 's Bad Boy all she wants , and who 's to stop her ? Who 's to give her that boot in the rea she needs and deserves ? He starts up the stairs to the bedroom .
KAREN: It 's going to be a cozy weekend .
LLOYD: What is ?
KAREN: We 're driving out to the country tomorrow night . Just the four of us . Bill , Margo , you and I
LLOYD: Well . We 've spent weekends before with nobody talking just be sure to lock up all lunt instruments and throwable objects
KAREN'S VOICE: Newton - they say , thought of gravity by getting hit on the head y an apple . And the man who invented the steam engine , he was watching a tea-kettle but not me . My Big Idea came to me just sitting on a couch
KAREN: Hello will you call Miss Eve Harrington to the phone , please ? Not at all thank you . And as she waits we
KAREN'S VOICE: It was a cold weekend - outside and in . Bill did n't come at all . Margo did n't know where he was and did n't care - she kept saying . Somehow we staggered through Sunday - and by the time we drive Margo to the station late Monday afternoon , she and Lloyd had thawed out to the extent of being civil to each other
KAREN: What time is it ?
LLOYD: When you asked a minute ago it was five-forty-two . It is now five forty-three . When you ask a minute from no , it will be-
KAREN: I just do n't want Margo to miss he train . As it is , she 'll barely make the theater
LLOYD: Five-fifty-five . We 'll be at the station in plenty of time
MARGO: That little place just two hours form New York . It 's on my list of things-I'll-never-understand . Like collecting shrunken Indian heads
KAREN: Of all people you should know what it means to want some peace and quiet-
MARGO: Peace and quit is for libraries . The car swerves - suddenly and slightly .
KAREN: Lloyd , be careful
LLOYD: Just a little skid , that 's all . This road 's like glass .
MARGO: Karen and I just do n't want an accident-
LLOYD: I have no intention of having an accident !
MARGO: It 's not important whether you do . We are wearing long underwear .
LLOYD: Now what 's this ?
KAREN: I guess I did n't look . You know I do n't pay attention to those things
LLOYD: Incredible . Futilely , he runs the started again .
MARGO: How much time have we ?
KAREN: Roughly ten minutes .
MARGO: How far to the station ?
KAREN: Three or four miles
MARGO: Any houses or farms around where we can borrow gas ?
KAREN: None in sight , there are n't many along this back road
MARGO: Not many car either , not much chance of a lift A moment of silence .
LLOYD: Well . No sense my just sitting here . I 'm going to walk up about half a mile , just in case .
KAREN: You 'll break your neck on that ice .
LLOYD: What a way to die - trying to get an actress to the theater in time . Tell Max I want to be buried with oyalties
KAREN: Do n't joke about such things .
MARGO: How fortunate that I have an understudy so ready , so willing and so able to go on .
LLOYD: The audience will want its money efunded , believe me .
MARGO: Thank you , Lloyd . Godspeed .
KAREN: He always looks so pathetic whenever he does anything physical-
MARGO: It seems to me that walking , fo most people , is not very dangerous .
KAREN: I just never think of Lloyd as anywhere but indoors and anything ut sitting down .
MARGO: Be brave . He 'll come back - with o without gas .
KAREN: It does n't matter .
MARGO: I detest cheap sentiment . She turns it off . Another pause .
KAREN: We 've all seemed a little tense lately
MARGO: Come to think of it , I have n't been very pleasant for weeks . For that , I 'm truly sorry . More than any two people I know , I do n't want you and Lloyd to be angry with me
KAREN: We 're never deeply angry , we just get sore . The way you do . We know you too well
MARGO: So many people - know me . I wish I did . I wish someone would tell be about me
KAREN: You 're Margo . Just - Margo .
MARGO: And what is that ? Besides something spelled out in light bulbs , I mean . Besides something called temperament , which consists mostly of swooping about on a broomstick creaming at the top of my voice infants behave the way I do , you know . They carry on and misbehave - they 'd get drunk if they knew how - when they ca n't have what they want . When they feel unwanted and insecure - or unloved . There 's a pause .
KAREN: What about Bill ?
MARGO: What about Bill ?
KAREN: He 's in love with you .
MARGO: More than anything in this world , I love Bill . And I want Bill . I want him to want me . But me . Not Margo Channing . And if I ca n't tell they apart - how can he ?
KAREN: Why should he - and why should you ?
MARGO: Bill 's in love with Margo Channing . He 's fought with her , worked with her , loved her but ten years from now - Margo Channing will have ceased to exist . And what 's left will be what ?
KAREN: Margo . Bill is all of eight years younger than you .
MARGO: Those years stretch as the years go on . I 've seen it happen too often .
KAREN: Not to you . Not to Bill .
MARGO: Is n't that what they always say ?
KAREN: Silly , is n't it ? You 'd think they 'd fix it so people could just sit in a car and keep warm
MARGO: About Eve . I 've acted pretty disgracefully toward her , too .
KAREN: Well
MARGO: Let 's not fumble for excuses , not here and now with my hair down . At est , let 's say I 've been oversensitive to well , to the fact that she 's so young - so feminine and helpless . To so many things I want to be for Bill funny business , a woman 's career . The things you drop on your way up the ladder , so you can move faster . You forget you 'll need them again when you go back to being a woman . That 's one career all females have in common - whether we like it o not - being a woman . Sooner or later we 've all got to work at it , no matter what othe careers we 've had or wanted and , in the last analysis , nothing is any good unless you can look up just before dinner or turns around in bed - and there he is . Without that , you 're not woman . You 're something with a French provincial office or a book full of clippings - ut you 're not a woman slow curtain . The end . A pause . There are tears in Karen 's eyes .
KAREN: Margo . Margo , I want you to know how sorry I am about this
MARGO: About what ?
KAREN: This . I ca n't tell you how sorry I am !
MARGO: Do n't give it another thought , one of destiny 's many pranks . Afte all , you did n't personally drain the gasoline out of the tank
ADDISON'S VOICE: Eve , of course , was superb . Many of the audience understandably preferred to return another time to see Margo . But those who remained cheered loudly , lustily and long for Eve how thoughtful of her to call and invite me - that afternoon He starts to walk toward the stage door .
BILL: you were better than all right , kid , you gave a performance , you ang a bell-
EVE: Are you proud of me , Bill ?
BILL: I 'll admit I was worried when Max called . I had my doubts .
EVE: You should n't have had any doubts .
BILL: - after all , the other day was one scene , the woods are full of one scene sensations . But you did it . With work and patience , you 'll be a fine actress . If that 's what you want to be .
EVE: Is that what you want me to be ?
BILL: I 'm talking about you . And what you want .
EVE: So am I .
BILL: What have I got to do with it ?
EVE: Everything .
BILL: The names I 've been called . But never Svengali . Good luck . He starts out . Addison ducks .
EVE: Do n't run away , Bill .
BILL: From what would I be running ?
EVE: You 're always after truth - on the stage . What about off ?
BILL: I 'm for it .
EVE: Then face it . I have . Since that first night - here - in the dressing room .
BILL: When I told you what every young actress should know .
EVE: When you told me that whatever I ecame , it would be because of you-
BILL: Your make-up 's a little heavy .
EVE: - and for you .
BILL: You 're quite a girl .
EVE: You think ?
BILL: I 'm in love with Margo . Had n't you heard ?
EVE: You hear all kinds of things .
BILL: I 'm only human , rumors to the contrary . And I 'm as curious as the next man
EVE: Find out .
BILL: Only thing , what I go after , I want to go after . I do n't want it to come after me .
ADDISON: May I come in ?
EVE: Certainly , Mr. deWitt
ADDISON: I expected to find this little room overcrowded , with a theater full of people at your feet
EVE: I consider myself lucky they did n't throw things .
ADDISON: Of course your performance was no surprise to me . After the other day I regarded it as no more than - a promised fulfilled .
EVE: You 're more than kind . But it 's still Miss Channing 's performance . I 'm just a carbon copy you read when you ca n't find the original
ADDISON: You 're more than modest .
EVE: It 's not modesty . I just do n't try to kid myself .
ADDISON: A revolutionary approach to the Theater . However , if I may a suggestion
EVE: Please do .
ADDISON: I think the time has come for you to shed some of your humility . It is just as false not to blow you horn at all as it is to blow it too loudly
EVE: I do n't think I 've done anything to sound off about .
ADDISON: We all come into this world with our little egos equipped with individual horns . If we do n't blow them - who will ?
EVE: Even so . One isolated pretty good performance by an understudy . It 'll e forgotten tomorrow .
ADDISON: It need n't be .
EVE: Even if I wanted to - as you say - e less humble , blow my own horn how would I do it ? I 'm less than nobody .
ADDISON: I am somebody . Eve rises . She eyes him steadily .
EVE: You certainly are . She goes into the bathroom .
ADDISON: Leave the door open a bit , so we can talk . Eve does so .
EVE: I 'd love to ! Or should I pretend I 'm busy ?
ADDISON: Let 's have a minimum of pretending . I 'll want to do a column about you-
EVE: I 'm not enough for a paragraph .
ADDISON: - perhaps more than one . There 's so much I want to know . I 've heard your story in bits and pieces your home in Wisconsin , your tragic marriage , your financial attachment to Margo - it started in San Francisco , did n't it ? I say - your idolatry of Margo started in San Francisco , did n't it ?
EVE: That 's right .
ADDISON: San Francisco . An oasis of civilization in the California desert . Tell me , do you share my high opinion of San Francisco ?
EVE: Yes . I do .
ADDISON: And that memorable night when Margo first dazzled you from the stage - which theater was it in San Francisco ? Was it - the Shubert ?
EVE: Yes . The Shubert .
ADDISON: A fine old theater , the Shubert . Full of tradition , untouched by the earthquake - so sorry - fire by the way , what was your husband 's name ?
EVE: Eddie
ADDISON: Eddie what ?
EVE: I 'm about to go into the shower , I wo n't be able to hear you
ADDISON: I can wait . Where would you like to go ? We 'll make this a special night
EVE: You take charge .
ADDISON: I believe I will .
KAREN'S VOICE: Some of the morning papers carried a little squib about Eve 's performance . Not much , but full praise I could n't imagine how they found out about it - but Lloyd said Max 's publicity man probably sent out the story Karen gets out of the cab , pays and goes in .
KAREN: Has Miss Channing come in ?
DOORMAN: Not yet , Mrs. Richards
KAREN: Eve . I 've heard the most wonderful things about your performance-
EVE: Mostly relief that I managed to stagger through it at all
ADDISON: She was magnificent .
KAREN: Then you 've heard too .
ADDISON: I was there . An eyewitness .
KAREN: You were there ? At the play - last night ?
ADDISON: A happy coincidence .
EVE: We 're having lunch with a movie talent scout .
KAREN: They certainly do n't waste much time .
EVE: Nothing definite yet - it 's just to have lunch .
ADDISON: They 'll be wasting this much of their time at any rate . Eve has no intention of going to Hollywood . He turns to Karen , changing the subject .
KAREN: Margo .
ADDISON: Margo ? Lunching in public ?
KAREN: It 's new Margo . But she 's just as late as the old one .
ADDISON: She may be later than you think
MARGO: `` my hat which has , lo , these many seasons become more firmly ooted about my ears , is lifted to Miss Harrington . I am once more available for dancing in the streets and shouting from the housetops . '' I thought that one went out with Woollcott Down here here , listen to this- `` Miss Harrington had much to tell - and these columns shall eport her faithfully - about the lamentable practice in our Theate of permitting , shall we say - mature - actresses to continue playing roles requiring a youth and vigor of which they retain but a dim memory- ''
KAREN: I just ca n't believe it .
MARGO: It get better ! `` - About the understandable reluctance on the part of our entrenched First Ladies of the Stage to encourage , shall we say - younger - actresses ; about Miss Harrington 's own long and unsupported struggle fo opportunity- ''
KAREN: I ca n't believe Eve said those things !
MARGO: In this rat race , everybody 's guilty till they 're proved innocent ! One of the differences etween the Theater and civilization what gets me is how all of those papers in town happened to catch that particular performance !
KAREN: Lloyd says it 's a publicity elease
MARGO: The little witch must have had Indians runners out snatching critics out of bars , steam rooms and museums or wherever they hole up well , she wo n't get away with it ! Nor will Addison deWitt and his poison pen ! If Equity or my lawye ca n't or wo n't do anything about it , I will personally stuff that pathetic little lost lamb down Mr. deWitt 's ugly throat
BILL: I came as soon as I read that piece of filth . I ran all the way
KAREN: I guess at this point I 'm what the French call 'de trop '
BILL: Maybe just a little around the edges . Karen smiles back , waves , and goes out .
LLOYD: - it 's Addison , from start to finish , it drips with his brand of venom taking advantage of a kid like that , twisting her words , making her say what he wanted he to say-
KAREN: Where 'd you get all that information ?
LLOYD: Eve .
KAREN: Eve ?
LLOYD: She 's been to see me , as a matte of fact she left just before you came in - you just missed her
KAREN: That was a pity
LLOYD: She wanted to explain about he interview , wanted to apologize to someone - and did n't dare face Margo
KAREN: I wonder why .
LLOYD: She started to tell me all about it - and she could n't finish , she cried so
KAREN: That 's quite a change of subject .
LLOYD: What with taxes coming up - and since I 'm a playwright and not an oil well operator - well , I 've been thinking
KAREN: I 'm trying hard to follow you .
LLOYD: If - instead of waiting until next season to do 'Footsteps on the Ceiling ' , which is in pretty good shape - and if Margo can be talked into going on tour with 'Aged in Wood ' - we could put 'Footsteps ' into production right away
KAREN: I 'm beginning to catch up .
LLOYD: If we could cast it properly , that is
KAREN: Maybe get some younger actress fo the part ? Someone who 'd look the part as well as play it ?
LLOYD: You 've got to admit it would be a novelty .
KAREN: Now you 're quoting Addison . Or Eve . A pause .
LLOYD: Eve did mention the play , you know . But just in passing - she 's neve ask to play a part like `` Cora , '' she 'd never have the nerve
KAREN: Eve would ask Abbott to give he Costello .
LLOYD: No , I got the idea myself - while she was talking to me
KAREN: With gestures , of course .
LLOYD: For once , to write something and have it realized completely . Fo once , not to compromise- Now Karen explodes . She rises .
KAREN: Lloyd Richards , you are not to consider giving that contemptible little worm the part of `` Cora . ''
LLOYD: Now just a minute-
KAREN: Margo Channing has not been exactly a compromise all these years , half the playwrights in the world would give their shirts for that particular compromise !
LLOYD: Now just a minute !
KAREN: It strikes me that Eve 's disloyalty and ingratitude must be contagious !
LLOYD: All this fuss and hysteria because an impulsive kid got carried away y excitement and the conniving of a professional manure slinger named deWitt ! She apologized , did n't she ?
KAREN: On her knees , I have no doubt ! Very touching , very Academy-of-Dramatic Arts !
LLOYD: That bitter cynicism of yours is something you 've acquired since you left Radcliffe !
KAREN: The cynicism you refer to , I acquired the day I discovered I was different from little boys !
LLOYD: Hello ! hi , Margo no , not at all , Karen and I were just chatting hmm ? why - why , yes , I 'm sure we can and I 'm sure we 'd love to ight 11 45ish . See you then
KAREN: Margo in the Cub Room . I could n't e more surprised if she 'd said Grant 's Tomb .
LLOYD: I 'm glad Bill 's back .
KAREN: They 'd die without each other . A pause .
LLOYD: Darling , I did n't promise Eve anything . Just said I thought she 'd e fine for the part , but there were some practical difficulties
KAREN: Such as ?
LLOYD: You - for one . I told her you were set on Margo playing the part - and I certainly would n't make a change without your approval . Karen smiles happily .
KAREN: That 's fine . Fine and dandy . I 'd enjoy nothing more . Just refer all of Miss Harrington 's future equests to me
BILL: The so-called art of acting is not one for which I have a particularly high regard
MARGO: Hear , hear
BILL: But you may quote me as follows . Quote . Tonight Miss Margo Channing gave a performance in you cockamamie play , the like of which I have never seen before and expect arely to see again . Unquote .
MARGO: He does not exaggerate . I was good .
BILL: You were great .
LLOYD: It 's been quite a night . I understand that your understudy - Miss Harrington - has given he notice .
MARGO: Too bad .
BILL: I 'm broken up about it The wine has been poured by now .
LLOYD: For some reason you ca n't just pick up champagne and drink it . Somebody 's got to be very witty about a toast . For instance
BILL: I 'm going to propose the toast . Without wit . With all my heart .
MARGO: Glory Hallelujah .
LLOYD: Well of all-
KAREN: Margo !
BILL: Drink .
KAREN: When ? When are you going to do it ?
BILL: Tomorrow we meet at City Hall at ten- - and you 're going to be on time .
MARGO: Yes , sir .
LLOYD: City Hall , that 's for prize fighters , and reporters - I see a cathedral , a bishop , banks of flowers
BILL: It 's only for the license . There 's a three-day wait - blood tests , things like that
MARGO: I 'll marry you if it turns out you have no blood at all .
LLOYD: Three days , that 's for the ourgeois - I see a midnight elopement , waking up a village person
KAREN: What are you going to wear ?
MARGO: Something simple . A fur coat over a nightgown
BILL: The point is - in the cathedral , a all park or a penny arcade - we want to have you two beside us ou nearest and dearest friends . Lloyd fills all the glasses .
LLOYD: There are very few moments in life as good as this . Let 's remember it . To each of us and all of us never have we been more close - may we never be farther apart . They drink . A waiter approaches with a note .
WAITER: Mrs. Richards ?
KAREN: Yes ?
WAITER: For you . Karen stares at it curiously , then opens it .
LLOYD: Very discreet . A note right out in the open like that . Next time tell your lover to blow smoke rings - o tap a glass
MARGO: Lloyd , I want you to be big about this the world is full of love tonight , no woman is safe
KAREN: This beats all world 's records fo unning , standing and jumping gall !
MARGO: `` Please forgive me for butting into what seems such a happy occasion - ut it 's most important that I speak with you . Please '' - it 's underlined - `` meet me in the Ladies ' Room . Eve . ''
BILL: I understand she is now the understudy in there .
MARGO: Pass me the empty bottle . I may find her why , look . There 's Rasputin .
CAPTAIN: More champagne , Miss Channing ?
MARGO: That 's what I said , bub .
LLOYD: After all , maybe she just wants to apologize
KAREN: I have no possible interest in anything she 'd have to say .
BILL: But what could she say ? That 's what fascinates me
LLOYD: Go on - find out
MARGO: Karen , in all the years of ou friendship , I have never let you go to the Ladies ' Room alone . But now I must . I am busting to know what goes on in that feverish little ain waiting there
KAREN: Well all right .
ADDISON: Karen ! How nice
BILL: Very effective . But why take it out on me ? He eats one in self-defense .
EVE: I was wondering whether you 'd come at all..
KAREN: Do n't get up . And do n't act as if I were the queen mother .
EVE: I do n't expect you to be pleasant .
KAREN: I do n't intend to be .
EVE: Ca n't we sit down ? Just for a minute She sits down . Karen remains standing .
KAREN: There ca n't be very much-
EVE: Oh , but there is-
KAREN: - and easy or not , I wo n't believe a word .
EVE: Why should n't you ? Please sit down . Karen sits , reluctantly and rigidly .
KAREN: - and you felt just like that talking to Addison .
EVE: In a way . You find yourself trying to say what you mean , but somehow the words change - and they become his words - and suddenly you 're not saying what you mean , but what he means-
KAREN: Do you expect me to believe that you did n't say any of those things - that they were all Addison ?
EVE: No ! I do n't expect you to believe anything . Except that the esponsibility is mine . And the disgrace .
KAREN: Let 's not get over-dramatic .
EVE: You 've really got a low opinion of me , have n't you ? We 'll I 'll give you some pleasant news . I 've been told off in no uncertain terms all over town . Miss Channing should be happy to hear that . To know how loyal her friends are - how much more loyal they are than she had a ight to expect me to be
KAREN: Eve do n't cry .
EVE: I 'm not crying .
KAREN: Tell me . How did your lunch turn out - with the man from Hollywood ?
EVE: Some vague promises of a test , that 's all - if a particular part should come along , one of those things-
KAREN: But the raves about you performance-
EVE: - an understudy 's performance .
KAREN: Well . I think you 're painting the picture a little darker than it is , eally . If nothing else - and do n't underestimate him - you have a powerful friend in Addison .
EVE: He 's not my friend . You were my friends
KAREN: He can help you .
EVE: I wish I 'd never met him , I 'd like him to be dead I want my friends ack .
KAREN: Eve . I - I do n't think you meant to cause unhappiness . But you did . More to yourself , perhaps - as it turned out - than to anyone else
EVE: I 'll never get over it .
KAREN: Yes , you will . You Theater people always do . Nothing is forever in the Theater . Love or hate , success or failure - whatever it is , it 's here , it flares up and burns hot - and then it 's gone .
EVE: I wish I could believe that .
KAREN: Give yourself time . Do n't worry too much about what people think , you 're very young and very talented and , believe it or not , if there 's anything I can do-
EVE: There is something .
KAREN: I think I know
EVE: Something most important you can do .
KAREN: You want to play `` Cora . '' You want me to tell Lloyd I think you should play it .
EVE: If you told him so , he 'd give me the part . He said he would .
KAREN: After all you 've said do n't you know the part was written fo Margo ?
EVE: It could have been - fifteen years ago . It 's my part now .
KAREN: You talk just as Addison said you did .
EVE: `` Cora '' is my part . You 've got to tell Lloyd it 's for me .
KAREN: I do n't think anything in the world could make me say that .
EVE: Addison wants me to play it .
KAREN: Over my dead body
EVE: That wo n't be necessary . Addison knows how Margo happen to miss that performance - how I happened to know she 'd miss it in time to call him and notify every paper in town it 's quite a story . Addison could make quite a thing of it - imagine how snide and vicious he could get and still write nothing but the truth . I had a time persuading him you 'd better sit down . You look a bit wobbly . If I play `` Cora , '' Addison will never tell what happened - in o out of print . A simple exchange of favors . And I 'm so happy I can do something for you - at long last Your friendship with Margo - you deep , close friendship - what would happen to it , do you think , if she knew the chap trick you 'd played on her - for my benefit ? And you and Lloyd - how long , even in the Theater , before people forgot what happened - and trusted you again ? No it would be so much easier on everyone concerned , if I were to play `` Cora . '' And so much bette theater , too Karen looks up slowly .
KAREN: A part in a play . You 'd do all that - just for a part in a play .
EVE: I 'd do much more - for a part that good . She leaves . Karen is alone .
ADDISON: Hungry ?
EVE: Just some coffee .
ADDISON: I 'm not surprised . After all that humble pie
EVE: Nothing of the kind . Karen and I had a nice talk .
ADDISON: Heart to heart ? Woman to woman ? Including a casual reference to the part of `` Cora '' - and your hopes of playing it .
EVE: I discussed it very openly . I told her that I had spoken to Lloyd - and that he was interested .
ADDISON: She mentioned , of course , that Margo expects to play the part ?
EVE: Oddly enough - she did n't say a word about Margo . Just that she 'll e happy to do what she can to see that I play the part . Addison puffs at his cigarette , bemused .
ADDISON: Just like that , eh ?
EVE: Just like that .
ADDISON: Do you know , Eve - sometimes I think you keep things from me . Eve 's feelings are hurt .
EVE: I do n't think that 's funny .
ADDISON: It was n't meant to be .
EVE: I confide in you and rely on you more than anyone I 've ever known ! To say a thing like that now - without any reason - when I need you more than ever
ADDISON: I hope you mean what you say , Eve . I intend to hold you to it . Their eyes meet .
LLOYD: - well ? What happened ?
KAREN: Nothing much . She apologized .
MARGO: With tears ?
KAREN: With tears .
MARGO: But not right away ? First the usiness of fighting them off , chin up , stout fella
KAREN: Check .
MARGO: Very classy stuff , lots of technique-
LLOYD: You mean - all this time - she 'd done nothing but apologize ? What 'd you say ?
KAREN: Not much .
MARGO: Groom- - may I have a wedding present ?
BILL: What would you like ? Texas ?
MARGO: I want everybody to shut up about Eve . Just shut up about Eve , that 's all I want . Give Karen more wine never have I been so happy . Is n't this a lovely room ? The Cu Room . What a lovely , clever name . Where the elite meet . Never have I seen so much elite - and all with their eyes on me . Waiting for me to crack that little gnome over the noggin with a bottle . But not tonight . Even Eve . I forgive Eve there they go . They all look .
BILL: You 've got it backwards . Even fo Wilkes-Barre .
MARGO: You know why I forgive Eve ? Because she 's left good behind - the fou of us , together like this , it 's Eve 's fault - I forgive her
LLOYD: You know , she probably means well , after all
MARGO: She is a louse .
BILL: Never try to outguess Margo .
MARGO: Groom .
BILL: Yes , dear .
MARGO: You know what I 'm going to be ?
BILL: A cowboy .
MARGO: A married lady .
BILL: With the paper to prove it .
MARGO: I 'm going to have a home . Not just a house I 'm afraid to stay in and a man to go with it . I 'll look up at six o'clock - and there he 'll e remember , Karen ?
KAREN: I remember .
MARGO: You 'll be there , wo n't you .
BILL: Often enough to keep the franchise .
MARGO: A foursquare , upright , downright , forthright married lady that 's for me . And no more make believe ! Off stage or on remember , Lloyd . I mean it , now . Grown-up women only , I might even play a mother - only one child , of course , not ove eight Lloyd , will you promise not to be angry with me ?
LLOYD: That depends .
MARGO: I mean really , deeply angry
LLOYD: I do n't think I could be .
MARGO: Well . I do n't want to play `` Cora . ''
KAREN: What ? Margo misinterprets her vehemence .
MARGO: Now wait a minute , you 're always so touchy about his plays , it is n't the part - it 's a great part . And a fine play . But not for me anymore - not a foursquare , upright , downright , forthright married lady .
LLOYD: What 's your being married got to do with it ?
MARGO: It means I 've finally got a life to live ! I do n't have to play parts I 'm too old for - just because I 've got nothing to do with my nights ! I know you 've made plans . I 'll make it up to you , believe me . I 'll tou a year with this one , anything - only you do understand - do n't you , Lloyd ?
LLOYD: What 's so funny ?
KAREN: Nothing
BILL: Nothing ?
KAREN: Everything everything 's so funny
KAREN'S VOICE: Lloyd never got around , somehow - to asking me whether it was all ight with me for Eve to play `` Cora '' Bill , oddly enough , efused to direct the play at first - with Eve in it . Lloyd and Max finally won him over Margo neve came to a rehearsal , too much to do around the house , she said . I 'd never known Bill and Lloyd to fight as bitterly and as often and always over some business for Eve , or a move or the way she read a speech but then I 'd never known Lloyd to meddle as much with Bill 's directing - as far as it affected Eve , that is somehow , Eve kept them going . Bill stuck it out - and Lloyd seemed happy - and I thought it might be best if I skipped ehearsals from then on
KAREN: Hello who ? who 's calling Mr. Richards ?
GIRL: My name would n't mean anything . I oom across the hall from Eve Harrington , and she is n't well . She 's been crying all night and hysterical , and she does n't want a doctor
LLOYD: Who is it ? What 's it all about ?
KAREN: Did Miss Harrington tell you to call Mr. Richards ? Lloyd picks up his phone .
GIRL: No , Eve did n't say to call him , but I remembered I saw Mr. Richards with her a couple of times - and I thought they being such good friends
LLOYD: Hellohello , this is Lloyd Richards . Where is Eve ? Let me talk to her-
GIRL: She 's up in her room , Mr. Richards . I really hate to bother you like this , but the way Eve 's been feeling - I 'm just worried sick what with her leaving for New Haven tomorrow , and everything
LLOYD: Tell her not to worry - tell he I 'll be right over .
GIRL: I 'll tell her , Mr. Richards .
KAREN: Are n't you broadening the duties of a playwright just a bit ? Rushing off in the middle of the night like a country doctor ?
LLOYD: I did n't think you would ! It seems to me , Karen , that for some tine , now , you 've been developing a deep unconcern for the feeling of human eing in general-
KAREN: I 'm a human being , I 've got some !
LLOYD: - and for my feelings in particular ! For my play , my career - and now for a frightened , hysterical girl on the eve of he first night in the Theater ! He goes back into his room .
KAREN: Have you forgotten about Eve ? What she is , what she 's done ?
LLOYD: Old wives ' tales , born of envy and jealousy ! And a phobia against truth !
KAREN: Then tell me this is n't true ! That your concern for your play and career is one thing - and that poo frightened hysterical girl another - and that your concern for her has nothing to do with either your play or your career !
ADDISON'S VOICE: To the Theater world - New Haven , Connecticut , is a short stretch of sidewalk between the Shubert Theater and the Taft Hotel , surrounded by what looks very much like a small city . It is here that managers have what are called out of-town openings - which are openings for New Yorkers who want to go out of town
EVE: What a day - what a heavenly day
ADDISON: D-day .
EVE: Just like it .
ADDISON: And tomorrow morning you will have won your beachhead on the shores of Immortality
EVE: Stop rehearsing your column Is n't it strange , Addison ? I thought I 'd be panic-stricken , want to run away or something . Instead , I ca n't wait for tonight to come . To come and go
ADDISON: Are you that sure of tomorrow ?
EVE: Are n't you ?
ADDISON: Frankly - yes . They 've arrived in front of the hotel .
EVE: It 'll be a night to remember . It 'll ing to me everything I 've eve wanted . The end of an old road - and the beginning of a new one
ADDISON: All paved with diamonds and gold ?
EVE: You know me better than that .
ADDISON: Paved with what , then ?
EVE: Stars . She goes in . Addison follows her .
ADDISON: Almost four .
EVE: Plenty of time for a nice long nap - we rehearsed most of last night
ADDISON: You could sleep , too , could n't you ?
EVE: Why not ? They 've arrived at her door . She opens it .
ADDISON: The mark of a true killer . Sleep tight , rest easy - and come out fighting
EVE: Why 'd call me a killer ?
ADDISON: Did I say killer ? I meant champion . I get my boxing terms mixed . He turns to go . After a few steps-
EVE: Addison- - come on in for just a minute , wo n't you ? There 's I 've got something to tell you .
ADDISON: Suites are for expense accounts . Are n't you being extravagant ?
EVE: Max is paying for it . He and Lloyd had a terrific row but Lloyd insisted well . Can I fix you a drink ?
ADDISON: Also with the reluctant compliments of Max Fabian .
EVE: Lloyd . I never have any , and he likes a couple of drinks after we finish - so he sent it up
ADDISON: Some plain soda . Lloyd must be expecting a record un in New Haven
EVE: That 's for tonight . You 're invited . We 're having everyone up after the performance .
ADDISON: We 're ?
EVE: Lloyd and I .
ADDISON: I find it odd that Karen is n't here for the opening , do n't you ?
EVE: Addison
ADDISON: She 's always been so fantastically devoted to Lloyd . I would imagine that only death or destruction could keep her-
EVE: Addison , just a few minutes ago . When I told you this would be a night to remember - that it would ing me everything I wanted-
ADDISON: - something about an old road ending and a new one starting - paved with stars
EVE: I did n't mean just the Theater .
ADDISON: What else ?
EVE: Lloyd Richards . He 's going to leave Karen . We 're going to be married .
ADDISON: So that 's it . Lloyd . Still just the Theater , after all
EVE: It 's nothing of the kind ! Lloyd loves me , I love him !
ADDISON: I know nothing about Lloyd and his loves - I leave those to Louisa May Alcott . But I do know you .
EVE: I 'm in love with Lloyd !
ADDISON: Lloyd Richards is commercially the most successful playwright in America-
EVE: You have no right to say such things !
ADDISON: - and artistically , the most promising ! Eve dear , this is Addison .
EVE: Addison , wo n't it be just perfect ? Lloyd and I - there 's no telling how far we can go he 'll write great plays for me , I 'll make them e great ! You 're the only one I 've told , the only one that knows except Lloyd and me
ADDISON: and Karen .
EVE: She does n't know .
KAREN: She knows enough not to be here .
EVE: But not all of it - not that Lloyd and I are going to be married .
ADDISON: I see . And when was this unholy alliance joined ?
EVE: We decided the night before last , efore we came up here
ADDISON: Was the setting properly romantic - the lights on dimmers , gypsy violins off stage ?
EVE: The setting was n't romantic , but Lloyd was . He woke me up at three in the morning , banging on my door - he could n't sleep , he told me - he 's left Karen , he could n't go on with the play or anything else until I promised to marry him we sat and talked until it was light . He never went home
ADDISON: You sat and talked until it was light
EVE: We sat and talked , Addison . I want a run of the play contract .
ADDISON: There never was , there 'll never be another like you .
EVE: Well , say something - anything ! Congratulations , skol - good work , Eve !
ADDISON: What do you take me for ?
EVE: I do n't know what I take you fo anything
ADDISON: It is possible - even conceivable - that you 've confused me with that gang of backward children you 've een playing tricks on - that you have the same contempt for me that you have for them ?
EVE: I 'm sure you mean something by that , Addison , but I do n't know what
ADDISON: Look closely , Eve , it 's time you did . I am Addison deWitt . I 'm nobody 's fool . Least of all - yours .
EVE: I never intended you to be .
ADDISON: Yes , you did . You still do . Eve gets up , now .
EVE: I still do n't know what you 're getting at . Right now I want to take my nap . It 's important that I-
ADDISON: - it 's important right now that we talk . Killer to killer .
EVE: Champion to champion .
ADDISON: Not with me , you 're no champion . You 're stepping way up in class .
EVE: Addison , will you please say what you have to say plainly and distinctly - and then get out so I can take my nap !
ADDISON: Very well , plainly and distinctly . Although I consider it unnecessary - ecause you know as well as I , what I am about to say . Lloyd may leave Karen , but he will not leave Karen for you .
EVE: What do you mean by that ?
ADDISON: More plainly and more distinctly ? I Have not come to New Haven to see the play , discuss your dreams , o to pull the ivy from the walls of Yale ! I have come to tell you that you will not marry Lloyd - o anyone else - because I will not permit it .
EVE: What have you got to do with it ?
ADDISON: Everything . Because after tonight , you will belong to me .
EVE: I ca n't believe my ears
ADDISON: A dull cliche .
EVE: Belong - to you ? That sound medieval - something out of an old melodrama
ADDISON: So does the history of the world for the past twenty years . I do n't enjoy putting it as bluntly as this , frankly I had hoped that you would , somehow , have known - have taken it for granted that you and
EVE: taken it for granted ? That you and I
ADDISON: Remember as long as you live , neve to laugh at me . At anything o anyone else - but never at me .
EVE: Get out ! Addison walks to the door , closes it .
ADDISON: You 're too short for that gesture . Besides , it went out with Mrs. Fiske .
EVE: Then if you wo n't get out , I 'll have you thrown out . She goes to the phone .
ADDISON: Do n't pick it up ! Do n't even put your hand on it
EVE: What of it ?
ADDISON: It is true that your parents were poor . They still are . And they would like to know how you are - and where . They have n't heard from you for three years
EVE: What of it ? She walks away . Addison eyes her keenly .
ADDISON: A matter of opinion . Granted . It is also true that you worked in a ewery . But life in the brewery was apparently not as dull as you pictured it . As a matter of fact , it got less and less dull - until you boss 's wife had your boss followed by detectives !
EVE: She never proved anything , not a thing !
ADDISON: But the $ 500 you got to get out of town brought you straight to New York - did n't it ?
EVE: She was a liar , she was a liar !
ADDISON: Answer my question ! Were n't you paid to get out of town ?
EVE: I had to get in , to meet Margo ! I had to say something , be somebody , make her like me !
ADDISON: She did like you , she helped and trusted you ! You paid her back by trying to take Bill away !
EVE: That 's not true !
ADDISON: I was there , I saw you and heard you through the dressing room door ! Eve turns face down again , sobbing miserably .
EVE: No-no-no
ADDISON: I had lunch with Karen not three hours ago . As always with women who want to find out things , she told more than she learned do you want to change you story about Lloyd beating at you door the other night ? Eve covers her face with her hands .
EVE: Please please Addison get off the bed , looks down at her .
ADDISON: That I should want you at all suddenly strikes me as the height of improbability . But that , in itself , is probably the reason . You 're an improbable person , Eve , and so am I . We have that in common . Also a contempt fo humanity , an inability to love o e loved , insatiable ambition - and talent . We deserve each other . Are you listening to me ?
EVE: Yes , Addison .
ADDISON: And you realize - you agree how completely you belong to me ?
EVE: Yes , Addison .
ADDISON: Take your nap , now . And good luck for tonight . He starts out .
EVE: I wo n't play tonight . I could n't . Not possibly . I could n't go on
ADDISON: Could n't go on ? You 'll give the performance of your life .
ADDISON'S VOICE: And she gave the performance of he life . And it was a night to emember , that night
EVE: Honored members of Sarah Siddons Society , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen What is there for me to say ? Everything wise and witty has long since been said - by minds more mature and talents fa greater than mine . For me to thank you as equals would be presumptuous - I am an apprentice in the Theate and have much to learn from you all . I can say only that I am proud and happy and that I regard this great honor not so much as an award for what I have achieved , but as a standard to hold against what I have yet to accomplish . And further , I regard it as estowed upon me only in part . The larger share belongs to my friends in the Theater - and to the Theate itself , which has given me all I have . In good conscience , I must give credit where credit is due . To Max Fabian- MAX sits erect , beaming proudly .
EVE'S VOICE: - dear Max . Dear , sentimental , generous , courageous Max Fabian - who took a chance on an unknown , untried , amateur EVE , after applause greets Max .
EVE: And to my first friend in the Theater - whose kindness and graciousness I shall neve forget Karen - Mrs. Lloyd Richards
EVE'S VOICE: and it was Karen who first ought me to one whom I had always idolized - and who was to become my enefactor and champion . A great actress and a great woman - Margo Channing .
EVE: My director - who demanded always a little more than my talent could provide-
EVE'S VOICE: And one , without whose great play and faith in me , this night would never have been . How can I repay Lloyd Richards ? EVE waits for the applause to die .
EVE: Hoe can I repay the many others ? So many , that I could n't possibly name them all ADDISON smiles approvingly .
EVE'S VOICE: whose help , guidance and advice have made this , the happiest night of my life , possible .
EVE: Although I am going to Hollywood next week to make a film - do not think for a moment that I am leaving you . How could I ? For my heart is here in the Theater - and three thousand miles are too far to e away from one 's heart . I 'll be back to claim it - and soon . That is , if you want me back .
AGED ACTOR: A good night to all - and to all a good night !
LLOYD: For services rendered - beyond the whatever-it-is-of-duty , darling . Max bustles into the SHOT .
MAX: Come on ! I 'm the host , I got ta get home before the guests start stealing the liquor
KAREN: Congratulations , Eve .
EVE: Thank you , Karen .
MAX: I 'm giving her a very high-class party . It ai n't like a rehearsal , she do n't have to be late .
ADDISON: As soon as the peasants stop pawing her .
MARGO: nice speech , Eve . But I would n't worry too much about you heart . You can always put that award where your heart ought to be .
EVE: I do n't suppose there 's a drink left
ADDISON: You can have one at Max 's .
EVE: I do n't think I 'm going .
ADDISON: Why not ?
EVE: Because I do n't want to .
ADDISON: Max has gone to a great deal of trouble , it 's going to be an elaborate party , and it 's for you .
EVE: No , it 's not . It 's for this .
ADDISON: It 's the same thing , is n't it ?
EVE: Exactly . Here . Take it to the party instead of me .
ADDISON: You 're being childish .
EVE: I 'm tired . I want to go home .
ADDISON: Very well . I shall drop you and go on to the party . I have no intention of missing it
EVE: Who are you ?
GIRL: Miss Harrington
EVE: What are you doing here ?
GIRL: I - I guess I fell asleep .
EVE: How did you get in here ?
GIRL: I hid outside in the hall till the maid came to turn down your bed . She must 've forgot something and when she went to get it , she left the door open . I sneaked in and hid till she finished . Then I just looked around - and pretty soon I was afraid somebody 'd notice the lights were on so I turned them off - and then I guess , I fell asleep .
EVE: You were just looking around
GIRL: That 's all .
EVE: What for ?
GIRL: You probably wo n't believe me .
EVE: Probably not .
GIRL: It was for my report .
EVE: What report ? To whom ?
GIRL: About how you live , what kind of clothes you wear - what kind of perfume and books - things like that . You know the Eve Harrington clubs - that they 've got in most of the girls ' high schools ?
EVE: I 've heard of them .
GIRL: Ours was one of the first . Erasmus Hall . I 'm the president .
EVE: Erasmus Hall . That 's in Brooklyn , is n't it ?
GIRL: Lots of actresses come from Brooklyn . Barbara Stanwyck , Susan Hayward - of course , they 're just movie stars .
EVE: I might .
GIRL: That spilled drink is going to ruin your carper . She crosses to it .
EVE: The maid 'll fix it in the morning .
GIRL: I 'll just pick up the broken glass .
EVE: Do n't bother .
GIRL: Subway .
EVE: How long does it take ?
GIRL: With changing and everything , a little over an hour . She carries the drink over to Eve .
EVE: It 's after one now . You wo n't get home till all hours .
GIRL: I do n't care if I never get home . The door buzzer sounds .
EVE: That 's the door .
GIRL: You rest . I 'll get it
ADDISON: Hello , there . Who are you ?
GIRL: Miss Harrington 's resting , Mr. deWitt . She asked me to see who it is
ADDISON: We wo n't disturb her rest . It seems she left her award in the taxicab . Will you give it to her ?
GIRL: It 's a very famous name , Mr. deWitt .
ADDISON: And what is your name ?
GIRL: Phoebe .
ADDISON: Phoebe ?
GIRL: I call myself Phoebe .
ADDISON: Why not ? Tell me , Phoebe , do you want some day to have an award like that of your own ? Phoebe lifts her eyes to him .
PHOEBE: More than anything else in the world . Addison pats her shoulder lightly .
ADDISON: Then you must Miss Harrington how to get one . Miss Harrington knows all about it
EVE'S VOICE: Who was it ?
PHOEBE: Just a taxi driver , Miss Harrington . You left the award in his cab and he brought it back
EVE'S VOICE: Oh . Put it on one of the trunks , will you ? I want to pack it
PHOEBE: Sure , Miss Harrington
MARY: Crap . The puzzle answers all run together .
TEACHER: We 're ready for you now . .
MARY: Jesus help me .
TEACHER: Here 's a treat , students . Ou final guest for Career Day , Miss Mary Horowitz , is the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen . You know the crossword puzzles you see every week in the newspaper ? It 's her job to create them . Is n't that fun ? Mary stares at the Teacher , whispers .
MARY: You were n't supposed to tell them .
TEACHER: Pardon me ?
MARY: I made a crossword puzzle to help them guess what my job is . You uined it .
TEACHER: Oh , I 'm so sorry .
GARBAGE: Mary drops thu p file out he the bottom She p lls u hearsed enthusiasm . ag , reads with re
MARY: People do crossword puzzles all the time but they do n't often think of the person who made all the words fit together , and who thought up the clues , and who made sure the little black squares at the top mirror the ones at the bottom .
TEACHER: Daniel , you have a question ?
DANIEL: You make a living doing that ? Just making puzzles ? The Atlanta Citizen only comes out on Fridays . One puzzle a week ca n't make you enough to live on . A LARGE KID in the front row pipes up .
LARGE KID: How do you pay your rent ?
MARY: My parents -
DANIEL: You live with your parents ?
LARGE KID: Oh my God , how old are you ? Still living at home !
TEACHER: Children !
MARY: Water .
TEACHER: Water . Just hang on .
MARY: Yep , I live at home
MARY: Me ! My crossword puzzle is always good news . it enlightens . it r andma 's entertains . It keeps your g mind alive so she remembers to send you five bucks on your birthday . Think about that as you lie in bed tonight picking your nose and crying yourself to sleep . I know I will .
LARGE KID: You 're a freak .
MARY: That 's a pretty blouse . The Teacher smiles back . Awkward .
BETTY: Nine dollar twenty . Mary fishes in her bag for money .
MARY: We could bring your dad if you want . I do n't think the show is ageist . That means he wo n't feel like a loser for being old .
BETTY: Pecha kucha ! Do Itta !
MARY: So no then ? That 's a no ?
ANGUS: Where the hell is he ?
STEVE: Probably doing his nails . pape
HARTMAN: What do you mean `` the big one '' ? Terrorists , natural disaster , what ?
ANGUS: Pandemic . Hartman 's eyes light up .
HARTMAN: Please let it be the bird flu .
STEVE: Bird flu is for pussies . This thing 's unstoppable .
HARTMAN: How 's it spreading ? Angus looks at Steve .
STEVE: Squirrels . Hartman can barely contain his excitement .
HARTMAN: Oh my God , they 're everywhere !
STEVE: Exactly .
HARTMAN: Al Qaeda connection ?
ANGUS: Always a possibility .
STEVE: Who wishes he was in Iraq now ?
HARTMAN: Not me ! .
ANGUS: Hartman , come on .
HARTMAN: I had a perfectly good bologna sandwich going on upstairs . Wasted !
STEVE: Next E-coli story breaks , he 'll be fine .
MARY: Crap .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Good for you , sweetie .
MARY: `` Inspired '' , the teacher told me .
MR. HOROWITZ: You get the Post ? She hands him the paper .
MARY: `` Engrossing '' one child exclaimed .
MR. HOROWITZ: A ten year old said that ?
MARY: I 'm sure that 's what he meant . And `` ebullient '' -
MR. HOROWITZ: What happened to your knee ?
MARY: Dad , some of the greatest orators of all time had their heads chopped off for their labors . I 'm lucky to escape with a simple flesh wound .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Change those socks before you date .
MARY: I told you I 'm not going .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Mrs. Alchessi says you 'll like this one .
MARY: Mrs. Alchessi has gliomatosis cerebri .
MRS. HOROWITZ: What ?
MARY: A brain tumor characterized by , among other things , dementia . She 's nuts . Mary walks up the stairs .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Mary , it 's just a date . This is what normal girls your age do . Mary stops on the stairs .
MARY: I 'm normal .
MRS. HANCOCK: Of course you are , sweetie .
MARY: I 'll go . Mary bolts up the stairs to her room .
MR. HOROWITZ: You ever want to see grandchildren , you better burn the damn boots .
MARY: Carol , tonight I have a date . A lind one . Not the guy , I mean the situation . We are , as yet , unknown to one another It 's nerve wracking , I know . Try not to have a spontaneous epileptiform seizure .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Guess who 's here .
MARY: I 'd rather not .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Look at you .
MARY: i already did . Repeatedly .
MRS. HOROWITZ: You 're beautiful .
MARY: Please do n't mean on the inside .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Beautiful and smart . And fun . And interesting . Mary takes a deep breath , lets it out fast .
MARY: Let 's hope all that does it fo him .
STEVE: Mary , hi . I 'm Steve . She puts up a finger - `` just a second '' .
MRS. HOROWITZ: And how 's your mother ?
STEVE: Great . Thanks . She just stares at him and smiles .
MARY: Gods . You may have noticed that I 'm wearing clean socks . Translation I 'm really trying and thus should be amply rewarded . Thanks for your support .
MRS. HOROWITZ: There we go .
STEVE: Ready ? Mary nods a bunch of times .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Be careful now . Do n't forget you seatbelts .
MR. HOROWITZ: She 'll be fine .
STEVE: Sorry about this blind date thing . My mother -
MARY: I never went to kindergarten ! He looks at her , totally confused .
STEVE: Okay .
MARY: I missed finger painting . He has no clue what to say .
STEVE: Sorry ?
MARY: Me too .
STEVE: Whoa !
MARY: You 're not her type . And she 's married .
STEVE: No , we 're right in front of you house and She undoes her sweater .
MARY: Steve ?
STEVE: Mary .
MARY: Is it Steven with a V or Stephen with a P-H ?
MARY: I thought so . There are almost a million Stevens with a V in the country , you know . It 's much more popular than the P-H way , almost twice as popular in fact . I think it 's the Brits who prefer the P-H . They love their P-H 's over there . Not as much as they love their fish and chips but still , they love them . It was the media thing , you know , that 's why our moms wanted us to get together . You work in the media , so do I . We really have to hand it to our moms , Steve , we do , and not just for raising us , or fo thriving during a time when women painstakingly struggled fo equality , but I mean we should hand it to them for being visionaries and predicting our all encompassing compatibility . We 're professionally compatible , yes , but it 's occurring to me at this particular moment that we 're also sexually compatible , and I do n't know if you noticed like I noticed ut we 're also both wearing blue . What are the chances of that ? Actually , if I really think about it , the chances are probably pretty good . Blue is one of the most popular three colors , however , yours is-
STEVE: Sure .
MARY: Me too ! And semantics , the study of the meaning of words ? You love words , right ?
STEVE: What 's not to love .
MARY: I know !
STEVE: Sorry . I have to get this .
MARY: I did n't hear it ring .
STEVE: Vibrate .
MARY: I did n't feel it
STEVE: You did n't ? This is Steve What ? Really ? Now ? If I do n't have a choice
MARY: It 's okay . When you get back we can have plenty of quality time .
STEVE: Sure . I 'll call you . He leans over , opens her door .
MARY: Steve , this has been a night to emember .
STEVE: No kidding . You certainly are -
MARY: Normal .
STEVE: You read my mind . Never happier , she jumps out of the car .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Sweetie , what 's wrong ? What happened ? My God , you 've barely een gone ten minutes . Mary stops on the stairs , turns back .
MARY: Mom , sometimes that 's all you need to know he 's the one !
MR. HOROWITZ: That girl makes up her mind the moon is green , it 's green . Leave her be . It 'll pass . Eventually .
MARY: Eleven letter word for serendipity . She screams into her pillow .
SOLOMAN: Let 's split the gardening feature into two weeks . Keep them in suspense . He steps back , looks at the whole layout .
TAXI DRIVER: This is bullshit .
GUY: Do n't even bother , man . I do n't know what the deal is , but it looks like all the answers are
SOLOMAN: Steve ? Mary sits and smiles .
MARY: Romantic ?
SOLOMAN: No !
MARY: Creativo ? That 's Italian fo `` creative '' .
SOLOMAN: No .
MARY: How about -
SOLOMAN: Mary . We 're letting you go .
MARY: Oh . up her Kroge She looks like she 's going to cry . She picks ag , fidgets .
PAYROLL CLERK: She forgot her severance .
ASSISTANT: Do n't you mean `` Steverance '' ? They both laugh .
MR. HOROWITZ: Interesting way to go .
MARY: Indeed .
MR. HOROWITZ: They like it ? She points to the other newspaper in his lap .
MARY: Finished with the Times ? She goes to take the paper . He stops her .
MR. HOROWITZ: Neshama , the puzzle . How 'd it go ? She looks around . Nowhere to run .
MARY: How do you think ?
MR. HOROWITZ: And Steve ?
MARY: He works a lot , you know . Travels all the time . 'T is possible he has not yet espied it . She picks up the crossword , admires it .
MR. HOROWITZ: I do n't want you getting your hopes up too much .
MARY: I 'm not .
ANGUS: We 're going to hit rush . We 'll have to take the second flight .
CORBITT: You 're set . KDFW 's on site now . Angus and Steve start to get up .
ANGUS: Take a look at those plants .
CORBITT: We ca n't use this . Hartman fakes disgust .
HARTMAN: Of course not . Nice camera work , Stevie .
CORBITT: You want to go back to the Weathe Channel , try that again .
STEVE: What ? Mom , let me call you ack .
MARY: Four letter word for am I going to wait my whole life for Steve to call ? She suddenly stops writing .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Mary , you remember the Hancocks .
MARY: Top of the evening .
MRS. HANCOCK: Loved this week 's puzzle , dear . Whoever Steve is , he must be a very lucky young man .
MARY: Exactly ! And all I have to do is go to him , be near him , and do my est to radiate me . Mr. Horowitz does n't like the sound of this .
MR. HOROWITZ: And where exactly will this adiation take place ?
MARY: Wherever news happens , Dad . Wherever news happens .
MR. HOROWITZ: This is nuts . Mary takes the bags from him .
MARY: Abe , Catherine , I 'm off . I do n't know where I 'm going -
DRIVER: Dallas .
MARY: Geographically yes , I know . Figuratively , philosophically , spiritually , much less so . My entire life is before me . The world is my ostrea edulis That means the edible kind of oyster .
MRS. HOROWITZ: That 's beautiful , sweetie . You sure you wo n't take mine instead ?
MARY: Mom , two handles , two handles , they oth hold stuff , what 's the difference ? Mrs. Horowitz goes to explain , gives up .
MR. HOROWITZ: That Steve shows any disrespect , you 're on the next bus back here .
MARY: Disrespect . Do you mean unmannerly , tactless , vulgar ? Because he 's a straight man , Dad , and some things ca n't be helped . But if you mean inconsiderate to me , contemptuous toward me , insulting , irreverent , uncivil -
DRIVER: Let 's go already !
MARY: I do n't know when I 'll be back but I do know this- The door shuts in her face .
HARTMAN: Paula , what started out as a outine rehearsal here at the Dallas Medieval Times turned deadly when an employee allegedly turned on his fellow performers . Twenty- four hours later , at least thirty employees are still being held hostage by the assailant , thei lives hanging in the balance . He listens to his earpiece , nods .
HARTMAN: Dammit , Angus . Get it a bit close to right before you hand it to me . Josh moves in , removes Hartman 's mic .
STEVE: But then we would n't have heard about horse heaven . Josh and Angus laugh .
HARTMAN: It 's that kind of genius that won me the Southeast Idaho Christian Family Coalition 's Journalist of the Year award , you ingrates .
MARY: Omaha Einstein cholera grenade Bach oui potbelly Oreo . The man drops the crossword , glares at her .
MARY: You know what else is in Bessemer ? The city , I mean ? Hitler 's typewriter . It 's crazy , I know . That guy was such an asshole .
DRIVER: We 'll just take five minutes here .
MARY: Can you watch my stuff ?
HARTMAN: Perhaps the greatest obstacle the hostage negotiators face is the suspect 's refusal to communicate using modern day technology . In keeping with his role as a medieval knight , he 's insisting on an eleventh century messenger to deliver all communication . The screen splits with a female news ANCHOR .
ANCHOR: What are we talking about here , Hartman ? Carrier pigeons ?
MARY: Homing pigeons . A few of the Diners overhear .
HARTMAN: Actually , homing pigeons . The Diners look at Mary .
MARY: Carrier pigeons , despite thei name , are more or less useless when it comes to actually carrying anything . Homing pigeons are etter for messenger work
ANCHOR: Have the negotiators located any homing pigeons ? Where do you even get them in this day and age ?
HARTMAN: You can buy them on the internet for twenty-five bucks a pop .
MARY: My boyfriend is probably holding that camera right now .
TRUCK DRIVER: Ca n't say I do .
MARY: I missed mine .
TRUCK DRIVER: I 'm headed that way .
MARY: You ever killed animals ? He looks at her , surprised but amused .
TRUCK DRIVER: Road kill ?
MARY: Set a garbage can full of kittens on fire or anything like that ? Now he 's disturbed .
TRUCK DRIVER: No .
MARY: Humans ?
TRUCK DRIVER: Would I tell you if I did ?
MARY: Touche , sir . Touche . Mary thinks some more .
TRUCK DRIVER: Wait for the next bus if that suits you .
MARY: Do you have a .light ? Matches , Zippo , blow torch , et al ?
TRUCK DRIVER: Afraid not .
MARY: May I see your license ?
ANGUS: Rebecca wants you to come fo dinner when we 're back home . He cousin from Florida -
STEVE: Forget it .
ANGUS: What ?
STEVE: It 's a set up .
ANGUS: She 's hot .
STEVE: I do n't care . Never again . My mom set me up with this chick -
ANGUS: You let you mother set you up ? What the hell is wrong with you ?
HARTMAN: Which one of you bastards hid my onzing shimmer ? The police surrounding the castle take aim .
MARY: And my other rule about crossword puzzles is this . No pencils . Doing a crossword with a pencil is like screaming with your lips duct taped together . It 's weak .
NORM: Quiet time might be good right about now .
MARY: Oh . She thinks about it , whispers .
NORM: What ?
MARY: Thanks for not raping me .
NORM: My pleasure .
MARY: Eight letter word for `` screwed '' .
MR. HOROWITZ: Last time I checked , freeway 20 still heads right back here .
MARY: My road , dad . My road . You do n't commit to a relationship and then give up because you 'd rather be at home curled up in front of the fireplace with a thesaurus . This is what people are supposed to do - go out on a limb for love . My lim just happens to be in Oklahoma . It 's only 850 miles away from home . No big deal .
MR. HOROWITZ: Oklahoma .
KOCO REPORTER: Eleven months ago , the child we 've come to know as Baby Peggy was born with an extremely rare birth defect , a third leg . Shortly afte the birth , her parents Misty and Bill Dunlevy separated . Now with joint custody , one parent wants the aby to keep the third leg , the other wants it gone
READING: `` God would n't have given my child the third leg if he did n't want he to keep it . '' But for now , the fate of that precious child 's third leg is the hands of a judge This is Hartman Hughes reporting , live from Oklahoma City .
HARTMAN: What if next time I say Baby Peggy is like the wishbone of he parents ' dispute ?
STEVE: Yeah , go ahead and suggest that . Corbitt will love it .
HOWARD: Me ?
STEVE: How do you feel about what 's going on here ?
HOWARD: I have n't made up my mind yet . Both parties have valid arguments .
STEVE: Please God , no .
MARY: Steve !
STEVE: Surprised ?
MARY: Astounded , flabbergasted , ushwacked -
STEVE: What are you doing ?
MARY: Talking to you . And noticing how the Oklahoma climate agrees with your complexion .
STEVE: Tell me you did n't come all the way here just to see me .
MARY: Of course not I went to Dallas looking for you first . And you know why ? Steve grabs his head . This is not happening .
STEVE: No , we 're not . I do n't know what that means but trust me . We 're so not .
MARY: It means you 're awesome and I 'm unstoppable .
STEVE: Great . Listen , Mary , you seem like a nice girl , and the ten minutes we spent together were
MARY: Mind blowing . At a complete loss , he just goes along .
STEVE: Sure , but I 'm working here . Working .
MARY: I know . I 'm just here to support you , show you I care , and also ask why you are n't following that guy pretending to be a nurse but obviously not wearing sterilizable , non-slip footwear .
SECURITY GUARD: Miss , if you want to be here , you 're going to have to stay behind the fence .
PROTESTORS: Near , far , wherever you are , we elieve that the leg should stay on
ELIZABETH: I like your boots .
MARY: Thanks . I found them in an alley .
ELIZABETH: Are you pro-leg or anti-leg ?
MARY: Neither really .
ELIZABETH: This is the pro-leg group ove here . We 're supporting Baby Peggy 's dad in his fight to save the baby 's third leg .
MARY: I 'm just here because my boyfriend is working the story . He 's with CNN , the world 's news leader , the most trusted name in news , the place where more -
ELIZABETH: The pro-leggers have better snacks .
MARY: I 'm definitely pro-leg .
MRS. HOROWITZ: There she is ! Abe , look ! There she is right there . Mr. Horowitz glances up from his book .
MR. HOROWITZ: She 's going to set her hair on fire with that candle .
MRS. HOROWITZ: Look , she 's made friends . Mrs. Horowitz tries not to cry .
STEVE: She 's on me what , thirty seconds after meeting me , and the chick will not shut up the whole time . I had to fake a work call , gave he the -
ANGUS: Wherever news goes
STEVE: I think I 'm in the clear , then she does this crossword - she works fo the Citizen - she does this crossword all about me , and as if that 's not crazy enough , she shows up here .
ANGUS: Here ?
STEVE: Over by the fence . Red boots . Ca n't miss her .
ANGUS: Is she hot ?
STEVE: Jesus , Angus . When a psychotic chick 's swinging a machete at you throat , who cares if she 's hot ?
ANGUS: I 've been married to the same woman for seventeen years . I care .
STEVE: Crazy , man . The chick is cra-zy .
HARTMAN: Priceless ! This is priceless ! Steve cringes .
STEVE: Hughes , do n't . Do n't even .
PROTESTOR WIFE: All we 're saying is , wait until Baby Peggy can talk and ask he what she wants to do with the spare .
MARY: Thanks , Bruno .
HARTMAN: M'lady .
MARY: Mary .
HARTMAN: Mary ' . Mary , Mary , Mary .
MARY: Thank y-
HARTMAN: Listen , Mary , I 've been working with Steve for about a year now . The guy is like a brother to me . A YOUNG PROTESTOR recognizes Hartman .
YOUNG PROTESTOR: Hartman Hughes ' .
HARTMAN: Girls follow us around everywhere we go . Who do you think they 're after ? Hartman reflects on it , smiles .
MARY: No ?
HARTMAN: No ! Promise me this . Promise you 'll stick around long enough to help him get over that fear . He tells you to go away , do n't . He says he thinks you 're crazy ? You 're not . He 's crazy , Mary . Crazy not to let down his walls and tell you how he really feels . Can I count on you to hang in there no matter what ?
MARY: Of course . I do n't want to interfere in his work but I just need to be here for him and -
HARTMAN: Good girl .
MARY: Pro-leg .
HARTMAN: You might want to jump camps . No way they 're going let that baby keep the third leg and live like a freak . Trust me .
MARY: She 'd just be like the tree frogs . Hartman turns around . What ?
HARTMAN: What 's going on ? Josh rushes to get the mic on Hartman .
JOSH: The parents of the kid got back together . Surgery 's cancelled .
HARTMAN: No amputation ?
STEVE: Tell me you were n't talking to Mary .
HARTMAN: Who ?
STEVE: Go to hell , Hughes . scans it
HARTMAN: It 's over ? The kid keeps the leg .
ANGUS: For now . Hartman checks his teeth in a hand mirror .
HARTMAN: 'Til she gets it caught in a ca door .
KOCO REPORTER: With mere hours to spare , the Dunlevys reconciled , agreeing to halt surgery until Baby Peggy is old enough to decide for herself . Further down the row of reporters
HARTMAN: And like the noble tree frog whose extra leg is nothing if not natural , so Baby Peggy begins the est of her three legged life This is Hartman Hughes reporting live from Oklahoma City .
STEVE: Tree frog ? Where do you get this shit ?
HARTMAN: A little thing called astutitude , my friends .
MARY: There you go , George . Just a little nasolacrimal duct cleaning . Nothing to be ashamed of . Elizabeth runs up to Mary , hugs her .
ELIZABETH: You see ? When you sing loud enough and when your signs are big enough , people listen !
MARY: Steve !
ELIZABETH: Go , go on . I 'll watch your stuff .
MARY: Steve ! STEVE !
HARTMAN: Angus , hold up .
STEVE: No , go . Fast . Hartman rolls down his window .
ANGUS: Is that her ? She 's hot .
STEVE: Angus , come on man , get me out of here .
ANGUS: She 's really hot .
STEVE: Who cares ? Jesus , you guys -
HARTMAN: Hi beautiful .
MARY: Steve ? Are you okay ? Is he okay ? Angus leans over to her window .
ANGUS: I do n't think we 've met . Angus .
HARTMAN: Steve 's not feeling well .
MARY: Oh no .
HARTMAN: I 'm sure he 'll be fine by the time we get to New Mexico .
ANGUS: Your eyes are striking .
MARY: Thank you .
HARTMAN: Steve really wants you to follow us . It would mean a lot to him .
HARTMAN: He was going to go ask you himself ut look at the poor bastard . So sick he ca n't even sit up straight .
MARY: What if it 's a viral zoonotic disease ? He should see a doctor .
HARTMAN: Exactly what I told him , but the only person he wants touching his infected flesh is you . Mary looks at Steve , worried .
MARY: But wait , what if - up .
HARTMAN: Hey now , we need you to be strong for him . Leachinan trial , Santa Fe , can you remember that ? Mary nods , unable to speak .
MARY: Will you take care of him ?
HARTMAN: Like he 's my own .
ANGUS: Nothing wrong with that one .
JOSH: Except for those boots .
STEVE: You 're an asshole , Hughes . Hartman laughs .
MARY: Elizabeth ! I have to meet Steve at his next job , in New Mexico . He 's sick , not as in rad , although he is that too , but more like unwell , infirm , perhaps barfy . Hopefully nothing serious but you never can e too sure and besides , healthy o not , he needs me .
ELIZABETH: Sign my book before you go ?
MARY: The trip 's not too long , right through all kinds of interesting sites like , for example , El Santuario de Chimayo The Lourdes of America . Know what that is ? A sacred sand pit near a burrito stand . What could be better than that ?
ELIZABETH: Not really .
MARY: What kind of car do you have ?
HOWARD: Plymouth Colt .
MARY: What year ?
HOWARD: Eighty-nine . Mary quickly scans her memory .
MARY: Replace the recalled seat belts ?
HOWARD: Yes . Mary thinks about it , smiles .
MARY: Let 's grab souvenirs !
HOWARD: You can have that . I have more .
MARY: Thanks . Mary puts the apple in her Kroger bag .
MARY: Persimmon . AKA , the mabolo , the date-plum , the velvet apple . Genus Diospyros .
HARTMAN: But the octogenarian Leachman may not have been as innocent as he epresentatives claimed , at least according to the evidence found at the murder scene . Hartman reads from his notes .
HOWARD: Guilty or not ?
CLYDE: Everybody deserves the benefit of the doubt . He looks at Mary , smiles .
MARY: Be has a point .
ELIZABETH: Yay ! I love Cloris Leachman .
HOWARD: Who does n't ?
MEXICAN MOURNERS: jMuerte ! iMuerte ! iMuerte !
MARY: I have to go find Steve . How do I look ?
ELIZABETH: Perfect .
MARY: I 'll be back . Save me a sign ! And if Cloris comes out , tell her I loved her in `` My Little Pony The Movie '' .
HARTMAN: Hi gorgeous . What 'd you do to you hair ?
MARY: Slept on it in the car . Where 's Steve ? Is he okay ?
HARTMAN: Never better . Come in and wait . He 'll be back soon .
MARY: Hello Bonjour Hola Jolly afternoon She gets to Angus . He kisses her hand .
ANGUS: My dear , sit .
VINCE: Mary , you in ?
MARY: Poker ? Technically I 'm familia ut I 've never actually played . With people , I mean .
SPANISH JOURNALIST: She 's in .
MARY: `` There are few things that are so unpardonably neglected in ou country as poker . '' Guess who said that one .
HARTMAN: Do n't go , Steve ! Look who 's here .
MARY: Thank God you 're okay !
STEVE: You have to stop stalking me .
MARY: I 'm not . It 's more like picking travel destinations based on where you happen to be working .
STEVE: Stalking .
MARY: Hartman told me you wanted me here . Now that I am , what bette opportunity for us to get to know each other better .
STEVE: This is crazy .
MARY: Hartman said you 'd say that .
STEVE: Go home , Mary .
MARY: And he said you 'd say that too . It 's just your fear talking . Steve just about loses it .
STEVE: He 's not my friend , he 's not you friend . He 's just an asshole who thinks it 's fun to string you along and make my life hell . He yells toward the tent .
MARY: You know how sometimes you see a pinguid guy with an attractive girl and you think how the heck did he pull that off ? People wo n't think that when they look at us . We 're perfectly matched . She can hardly contain her excitement .
HARTMAN: For the hundredth time , Steve , no , I am not interested in a threesome with you and your new girlfriend . Steve points to Mary .
STEVE: Tell her the truth . About all the crap you told her .
HARTMAN: Okay . Fine . Hartman goes to Mary , grabs her hand .
MARY: Stop it , you guys ! Stop ! `` Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat , for it is momentary . '' You know who said that ? Gandhi . And me . Just now .
VINCE: Nice one .
SPANISH JOURNALIST: I 'm going to go with Hughes on this one .
VINCE: Come on , the guy wears makeup .
MARY: No ! This is n't about money ! It 's about courage , love , honor and all things virtuous and pure . Steve , kick him in the leberknoedel !
JOURNALISTS: Ohhhh !
STEVE: Tell her !
HARTMAN: Okay , alright . Hartman wipes his lip , looks up at Mary .
ANGUS: Verdict 's in .
MARY: He fought for me . Happiest moment of her life .
BBC JOURNALIST: After a devastating eight months , Leachman at last vindicated despite overwhelming evidence against her . Six more cameras down , the French Reporter .
SUBTITLED: Eyewitness testimony , fingerprints on every inch of the body , the murder weapon still warm in he Chanel handbag -
HARTMAN: And as she left the court room today a free woman , the cheers of her devoted fans carrying he forward -
MARY: Please ! Somebody help him ! Apply a vasoconstrictor , a nasal tampon , anything ! At the absolute least , direct pressure and a clean tissue !
HARTMAN: As you can see , Cloris Leachman 's fans have become surprisingly violent despite her victory here today . Add this to the list of the most dangerous locations fo journalists . Iraq , Somalia , Lebanon , Sri Lanka and just about any place Cloris Leachman fans gather . Hartman wipes blood from his lip .
STEVE: How long do you figure until - Steve 's phone rings . He cringes , answers it .
CORBITT: Who the hell was that ?
STEVE: This girl . She 's been following me She 's not my girlfriend
ANGUS: Consider yourself temporarily saved y the storm . It 's worse than they thought . We 've got to move .
STEVE: Any luck , the storm will kill me first .
CLYDE: Shhhh .
MARY: What ? I did n't -
CLYDE: Shhhh .
MARY: Wait ! Steve ! Hartman spots her .
HARTMAN: Sorry , darling , we 're on to the next story .
MARY: No , wait ! Attendee !
STEVE: Considering you probably just cost me my job , maybe you do n't want to talk to me right now .
MARY: But I do ! If you 're in trouble ecause of me I can fix it , I can explain to your boss . He or she probably just does n't understand our relationship .
STEVE: We do n't have a relationship .
MARY: Sure we do , it 's just in the pupa stage right now .
STEVE: Mary , go home ! She looks at him , hurt .
MARY: Six letter word for `` over my lifeless , rigormortic and maggot infested , i.e . dead , body am I giving up now '' D-O-G-G- motherfucking-E-D. Dogged .
MR. HOROWITZ: Enough is enough . You 've got to get home , turn in your crossword for next week -
MRS. HOROWITZ: You ca n't chase that boy any more . If he does n't appreciate you it 's idiculous to -
MARY: Ridiculous ? Mom ! How many times did you propose to dad ?
MRS. HOROWITZ: Give Steve my best .
MR. HOROWITZ: Be careful .
MRS. HOROWITZ: And eat ! A biscuit , anything . A V8 would n't kill you .
MARY: Sure you do n't want to come along ?
ELIZABETH: I wish , but I only left enough cat food out for two days . I 'll miss you guys !
HOWARD: This storm could be bad . Sure you want to drive into it ?
MARY: How bad could it be ?
CNN METEOROLOGIST: Hurricane Lorraine , currently rated category four , expected to hit landfall by tomorrow evening . Making the situation even more frightening , that area of Texas currently in the midst of its worst tornado season in history . Tornado images appear on the map .
KTFT METEOROLOGIST: Tornadocane .
KPRC ANCHOR: Tornadocane .
KLUG METEOROLOGIST: God really hates us now .
HARTMAN: And this time , the warnings were hard to ignore . One Galvestonian told us `` tornados , we can handle . Hurricanes we can handle . Bugs we can handle . Put 'em all togethe and that 's a storm I do n't need to see '' . A wise man indeed .
MARY: And when I met Steve , I knew right away we had a lot in common . We 're oth in the media , we both love crosswords , we both love words . We oth felt this unexplainable connection , no matter how much his instinct might be to fight it . That 's okay . We just have to get to know each other better , that 's all .
HOWARD: I saw Steve talking to you He was n't very nice .
MARY: If there 's one thing I learned from crossword puzzles it 's that you ca n't give up .
MARY: I have to give it one more try . I have to fix the mess I made with his work , then maybe he and I
HOWARD: You know what my favorite part of doing crosswords is ? When you know something you did n't think you knew .
MARY: Me too .
HARTMAN: Paula , this pier was closed to the public twenty-four hours ago , and for good reason .
STEVE: You had to get the pier shot . Had to . Just about got us all killed . Happy ? Hartman points in the water , yells .
STEVE: You 're such an asshole . Steve walks off the pier mad as hell .
HARTMAN: Come on , that was funny . You have to admit Stevie ?
HOWARD: Hang on .
MARY: Oh my God .
HOWARD: We 'll just have to wait for this to pass , then we 'll keep going . It 'll e okay .
MARY: Crap !
MR. HOROWITZ: She 's fine . She 's fine .
MRS. HOROWITZ: This is all your fault .
MR. HOROWITZ: I know .
GIRL'S VOICE: Steve Oh Steve Steve awakens in panic .
MEXICAN BOY: They pay me twenty dollar to wake you .
STEVE: You seen her ?
ANGUS: She 's too smart to come here during this . Steve looks around like he 's crazy .
STEVE: No , she 's here somewhere . I can feel it .
MARY: I spy with my little eye a chemical element from group two of the periodic table .
HOWARD: Barium I spy with my little
MARY: Cobalt .
HOWARD: My best seller . I 'm an apple sculptor .
MARY: But you 're out now . He 's a bit surprised she was listening .
HOWARD: I saw the people on TV fighting fo Baby Peggy . It was n't far from my house , and the people there looked nice enough , so I went . I thought I had everything I needed at home ut then I thought , maybe there 's more .
MARY: Maybe there is .
HOWARD: Can I tell you something ? Mary nods .
MARY: They 're fuscous , that means -
HOWARD: Brownish gray . I know . They both smile .
MARY: You know what I 'd call this ?
HOWARD: Quagmire ?
MARY: Imbroglio , Howard . That means we 're screwed .
CORBITT: Storm 's over . What else is happening ? The Exec shrugs and yawns .
BUSINESSMAN: Sloooowww news day .
FIRST REPORTER: Fire , a car chase , anything ?
SECOND REPORTER: There is nothing going on , man . Nada .
TEACHER: Who 's ready for some fun ?
CNN ANCHOR: An abandoned mine shaft on the outskirts of Eunice , Louisiana . The children , apparently all hearing impaired , enjoying a trip ' to the county fair , blissfully unaware of the danger that lay ahead .
HARTMAN: Tornadocane my ass . Where the hell were the cicadas ? Retards in a mine shaft , now that 's a story .
STEVE: They 're deaf , asshole .
HARTMAN: Look , it 's your girlfriend .
STEVE: We 're not stopping . Hartman grabs a piece of paper , writes fast .
ANGUS: We ca n't just leave them .
STEVE: Highway patrol 's down here every hour . It 's not like they 'll rot in the ditch .
HARTMAN: Getting some fresh air . It helps my pores . Steve tries to grab the paper .
STEVE: Hughes !
HARTMAN: Yes , Steven ?
STEVE: You 're not telling her where we 're going .
HARTMAN: Are n't I ?
ANGUS: Christ , you two . You 'll get us killed .
STEVE: Asshole ! Hartman laughs , rubs his arm in pain .
MARY: `` Eunice , Louisiana . Please ''
HOWARD: `` Please meet ''
MARY: See ? He needs me , if only to help with his spelling .
HOWARD: No kidding .
HARTMAN: And what went through your mind when you realized they were gone ?
SUBTITLED: I do n't know what the hell happened ut I smell a lawsuit .
HARTMAN: To some , a simple crane . To the trapped , innocent , special children the answer to their prayers .
MARY: Please let those kids be okay .
RESCUER: Hey ! Buddy ! Back it up .
FIREMAN: They 're all okay ! The rescuers cheer . The Teachers bawl .
HARTMAN: Elation here in Louisiana but the danger , far from over as rescuers ing these children up one grubby little face at a time .
MARY: George , Lydia ! What 's going on ? Lydia hugs her .
FIREMAN: That 's the last of them !
HARTMAN: A happy ending that 's left parents across this country wondering - how can I keep my family safe from abandoned mines ? Are there abandoned mines in my backyard ? Is my child 's school built on top of an abandoned mine ? Steve spots Mary , running toward him .
STEVE: No , no , no .
HARTMAN: And how , oh how , can these death traps be avoided ? Mary drops right into the abandoned mine .
CNN ANCHOR: Mary Horowitz .
NEWS ANCHOR: Mary Horowitz .
STEVE: Mrs. Horowitz .
MRS. HOROWITZ: We 're coming ! Tell her to hang on !
STEVE: You and your husband stay put , Mrs. Horowitz .
STEVE: She better be . Hartman looks away , guilty .
MARY: Eight letter word for my life has come to this .
MARY: Crap .
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: The new equipment is going to take a while . Let 's try and find out what kind of shape our victim 's in .
RESCUER: Can we lower a phone down in there ?
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Let 's keep it simple . Get me a flashlight , a piece of paper and a pencil .
HARTMAN: Behind inc Oh what 's the point ? Hartman walks away moping .
ANGUS: Corbitt wants you to go on air to talk about Mary . An interview with the boyfriend .
STEVE: I 'm not her boyfriend !
ANGUS: Close enough . Come on , we need this . Hartman steps up , listens in .
HARTMAN: Fox scooped us ? Our Mary ? The astards . Steve glares at him .
ANCHOR: That has to be bad news for Mary Horowitz , would n't you say ?
MRS. HOROWITZ: Who are these people ?
SLICK JOURNALIST: Mary Horowitz , described by those who know her as smart , talkative , very much the girl next door , that is , if the girl next door has a genius level IQ . She 's worked fo eleven years as the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen and lives right here with he parents .
MR. HOROWITZ: No , Mary does n't live with us . She just came over one day and wo n't leave , but she has her own place .
SLICK JOURNALIST: Can you comment on the rumors that Mary 's fall into the mine was a suicide attempt ?
MR. HOROWITZ: That 's ridiculous . Not our Mary . The word depression is n't in he vocabulary . Well , it 's in he vocabulary , obviously , but no , nothing ever gets her down . Steady as a rock , that one .
MARY: I am not afraid . I am not fearful , pusillanimous , nor am I affrighted .
YOUNG RESCUER: What should we say ?
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Tell her help is on the way . We just need her to confirm she 's conscious here , give me that .
MARY: And then there 's black lung disease , also a problem in coal mines . Chronic cough , eathlessness , cyanosis - that 's where your skin turns purple
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: That 's a good sign right there . The Young Rescuer grabs the note .
YOUNG RESCUER: `` I think you mean , am i conscious , not am I conscience . ''
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Jesus Christ .
YOUNG RESCUER: `` Conscious means alert and awake . Conscience is your inner morality gauge , you know , the thing that stops you from doing bad things , e.g . killing , stealing , harming helpless animals , and whatnot . ''
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Can we leave her down there ? He motions for the Rescuer to continue .
YOUNG RESCUER: `` To answer your question , yes I am conscious . My leg is bleeding but I 'll probably live . ''
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Great .
YOUNG RESCUER: `` Yours truly , Mary Horowitz . '' The other rescuers start to disperse .
RESCUER: `` P.S . Did anybody lose a little deaf girl ? ''
NANCY GRACE: They missed a child ? They missed a child ? Ca n't these people count ? Thank goodness for this woman , this Mary Horowitz - let 's bring up that picture of her again . The picture of Mary appears on the monitor .
STEVE: Thank Christ . Now if they can only get her out of there . Angus hangs up his phone .
ANGUS: Corbitt wants you on in five .
HARTMAN: I 'll be gentle .
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: We 've got the whole country watching now , ca n't afford any more mistakes . The crane from Shreveport is a wash. We 're looking at as much as sixteen hours to bring the other one in .
ELIZABETH: Howard ! She hugs him .
HOWARD: She 'll be okay . She will .
WAGA CINDY: No one will argue that the city of Atlanta has always been a breeding ground for heroes . Jimmy Carter , Hank Aaron , Ryan Seacrest and now Mary Horowitz . As the country wonders about what would drive this woman to such an extraordinary act , we went straight to those closest to her .
FEMALE REPORTER: Exactly like the boots worn by Mary Horowitz when she slipped into the mine . Were the boots responsible for the accident ? The manufacture efuses to comment . For now , the deadly footwear remains on store shelves , leaving consumers to pay the ultimate price .
MARY: Rhinolith , that 's the real word . Rhino is nose , lithos means stone . Nose stone . You know what that is ? Snot .
SCIENTIST: I knew Mary Horowitz in college . She caught me trying to cheat off her physics midterm , lectured me for an hour and when she finally stopped talking I asked her out . She said no , said it was because I was , get this - hebetudinous . Can you believe ?
RESEARCHER: We dated for a while but she ended it . Said she could n't stand this -
WAGA CINDY: A heartbreaker , leaving behind a trail of devastation .
MARY: And Archimedes , there 's anothe one . He was into math , philosophy , all kinds of stuff , then one day he was working out an equation in the sand and somebody stabbed him . Crappy , I know .
HARTMAN: Steve , tell us about Mary , you fiance struggling for her life at the bottom of the abandoned mine as we speak .
STEVE: Mary she 's smart , incredibly smart . She talks a lot . Neve oring , I 'll tell you that much . He thinks about her , gets lost in it .
HOWARD: They do n't even know her .
ELDERLY LADY: No , but they know what it 's like to e alone , to need a helping hand . That 's a good enough reason to be here .
MARY: Happenstance , I love that word too . And you know what else -
ELIZABETH: What 's taking so long ?
MRS. HOROWITZ: Why are n't they doing anything ? Mr. Horowitz grabs her hand .
CNN ANCHOR: A tense night in Eunice , Louisiana . Hartman what can you tell us ?
HARTMAN: They 've lowered food and water into the depths of this abandoned mine . The last task of this archaic crane that finally blew its motor . We 've een told the new rescue equipment wo n't make it until daybreak . Until then , all we can do is wait , hope , and of course pray .
RESCUE SUPERVISOR: Jesus Christ . Tell me she 's not -
MARY: After I got kicked out of Girl Scouts , while the other girls were learning how to sell cookies , I was at home reading the biography of Sir Edmund Hillary .
NORM: Good for her . Good for her .
JIM SOLOMAN: We 're going to have to give her he job back . He shakes his head , laughs .
LARGE KID: Did you start this and not bothe finishing it ? Do you know how much work goes into making these things ? Honestly , Dad . The Kid grabs a pencil to finish the puzzle .
HARTMAN: First interview is ours . Here comes our girl . Steve , you ready ? Grab her arid kiss her then let me start with the questions .
HOWARD: You 're okay .
MARY: I am . Cameras go off all around them .
MARY: In solving the puzzle of life there 's one thing you must do .
HOWARD: That bus driver looked like Francis Galton . Did you see that ?
MARY: He 's my favorite behavioral geneticist in the world . They continue on through an open yard .
HOWARD: In retrospect , and I say this with some hesitation because I do n't like to have actual regrets so I 'll just say I 'm beginning to perpend -
MARY: Good one .
HOWARD: I 'm beginning to perpend whether o not eating three bags of caramel corn for lunch was the smartest thing to do . Honestly I 'm this close to spewing
MARY: My grandma left it to me . My parents wo n't stay here . And fo me it was always too quiet . She looks at her new friends .
MAN: Burden ! Jack Burden ! The boss wants to see you .
MADISON: Hey , Jack , ever hear of a fellow called Willie Stark ?
JACK: No . Who 'd he shoot ?
MADISON: Oh , county uh treasurer , o something like that .
JACK: What 's so special about him ?
MADISON: They say he 's an honest man . What I want you to do is to hop into you car
JACK: Why , you promised me a vacation .
MADISON: Well , that can wait .
JACK: Yeah but there 's a a girl I know .
MADISON: Oh Well , she can wait too . Jack takes the paper back and looks at it .
JACK: The question is can I ?
MADISON: The answer is get up there .
JACK: Right . Oh uh what did you say his name was ?
MADISON: Who ?
JACK: The fellow 's name .
MADISON: Oh , the uh Stark Willie Stark . Madison goes on with his work .
JACK: Willie Stark
WILLIE: to lie to them in order to line their own dirty pockets with the taxpayers ' money . When have the citizens of Kanoma County eve witnessed a campaign like this ? Why is the opposition so anxious to defeat me ? Why have they used every dirty method known to make sure I 'm not elected county treasurer ? Well , I 'll tell you why
SHERIFF: Sorry , Willie , you 'll have to move on .
WILLIE: Why ?
SHERIFF: City Ordinance Number One-Oh-Five more than five people congregating is disturbing the peace .
WILLIE: If you folks 'll be so kind as to ead these handbills , my boy will pass them out among you .
SHERIFF: There 's an ordinance against that too .
WILLIE: Pass 'em out , Tom .
SHERIFF: Get that camera ! Willie , you 're unde arrest .
JACK: Where can I find Tiny Duffy ?
PILLSBURY: Right over there , mister .
JACK: Uh , they told me I could get my camera ack here .
DUFFY: Who told you that ?
JACK: People . Can I ?
DUFFY: You the reporter that 's been snoopin ' around town ?
JACK: Are you Tiny Duffy ?
DUFFY: What paper ?
JACK: Chronicle .
DUFFY: You sure come a long way to stick your nose into other people 's usiness .
JACK: That 's true Only my boss on the paper ca n't see it that way .
DUFFY: It ai n't any of his business either .
JACK: Whose business is it ?
PILLSBURY: Them as is tendin ' to it . County commissioners that the voters of Kanoma County elected to tend to their business and not take no buttin ' in from nobody .
JACK: You a commissioner ?
PILLSBURY: Yeah . Name 's Pillsbury . Dolph Pillsbury .
2ND COMMISSIONER: Me too . I 'm a commissioner too .
JACK: Who is n't a commissioner ?
DUFFY: He 's the head man .
JACK: Then you 're in a position to know where
DUFFY: He 's in a position to know nothin ' . And to say nothin ' .
JACK: I thought you said he was head man ?
DUFFY: He uses my head .
PILLSBURY: Oh , Tiny , you 're a card Ai n't he a card ? Yeah , he 's a card Now , who thought up those city ordinances about arresting someone for making a speech ?
DUFFY: Who 's arrested ? Nobody 's been arrested . Hi , Willie .
PILLSBURY: Hi , Willie .
DUFFY: Did you apologize to Willie ?
SHERIFF: Yeah , I apologized to Willie .
DUFFY: Did you give him his handbills back ?
SHERIFF: Yeah , I gave 'em back .
DUFFY: Give him back his flag and his bag and give this man his camera .
WILLIE: I 'm going to be on that same street corner tomorrow , Mr. Duffy .
DUFFY: You go right ahead , Willie . We all elieve in free speech . We got to it 's in the Constitution .
WILLIE: My boy is out distributing those handbills now .
DUFFY: It 's a free country , Willie . If you can convince the people to vote fo you you go right ahead .
WILLIE: What did you want to see me about , Mr. Duffy ?
DUFFY: I wanted you to meet a fella came all the way up from the state capital to meet you . A reporter . Wants to write you up maybe put your picture in the paper .
WILLIE: I 'm happy to know you , sir .
JACK: Burden 's my name Jack Burden . Can we go somewhere where we can talk ?
DUFFY: Now that ai n't polite . Do n't you want to hear both sides of the story ?
JACK: I know your side . What happened to the plate your men took from my camera ?
DUFFY: Must have dropped out . Oh , come on , fellas , let 's relax . It 's a hot day Hey , Sugar Boy
SUGAR BOY: Yeah ?
DUFFY: Bring some cold beer for the boys .
WILLIE: None for me , thank you kindly .
PILLSBURY: Now you know Willie do n't drink , Tiny . His wife do n't favor drinking . And Willie 's the teacher 's pet , ai n't you , Willie ?
WILLIE: I 'll have some orange pop if you do n't mind . Duffy roars with laughter .
DUFFY: Orange pop ! All right , Sugar Boy . Bring him some orange pop .
SUGAR BOY: Th-th-the p-p-pop 's s-s-sold out .
DUFFY: Did you hear that , boys ? The p-p- pop 's s-s-sold out . They all laugh .
PILLSBURY: Now ai n't he a card ?
WILLIE: He stutters , Mr. Duffy , but you you do n't say anything . Let 's go , mister . They turn and go out .
JACK: You 've been talking for a long time , Mr. Stark .
PAPPY: Willie 's got a lot to say .
LUCY: You sleepy , Pappy ? You want to have a nap ?
PAPPY: No , I want to hear it .
LUCY: I 'm worried about Tom . It 's getting dark . He should have been home .
WILLIE: He 's a strong boy . Do n't worry about him . He can take care of himself .
JACK: How old is the boy ?
WILLIE: Fifteen .
JACK: How long have you been married ?
WILLIE: Nine years .
LUCY: He was a neighbor 's boy . They were poor folks . Both died . I could n't have any children , so He 's a good oy .
WILLIE: Oh , he 's the best . I could n't love him any more if he was my own flesh and blood .
JACK: And now you , Mrs. Stark ?
LUCY: Oh , there is n't very much to tell about me .
JACK: How did you meet ?
LUCY: I was teaching school and one day a pupil walked in . It was Willie . I could n't have a grown man in the class and Willie wanted to learn so adly so I married him .
JACK: Is that the only reason ?
LUCY: Except that I loved him .
WILLIE: Get the coffee , Lucy . She goes back into the kitchen .
JACK: When did they fire you , Mrs. Stark ?
LUCY: A couple of weeks ago . I 'd been teaching for a long time and nobody ever said I was n't all right . But I do n't care . I do n't want to teach in a schoolhouse that they built just so somebody can steal some money . And Willie does n't want to be Treasurer , either , if he has to associate with those dishonest people .
WILLIE: I 'm going to run . They ca n't keep me from running .
JACK: If you do n't mind the truth , Mr. Stark , you have n't much of a chance .
WILLIE: I 'm going to run . They 're not going to kick me around like I was dirt .
LUCY: I do n't care if Willie loses just so he gets the truth to the people . Is n't that true , Willie ? Willie is silent . Jack looks at him .
WILLIE: Hmmm ? Yeah , yeah , sure , that 's ight .
LUCY: Well , if you lose you can give a little more time to studying you law books .
JACK: Oh , you studying law too ?
WILLIE: By myself , at night .
PAPPY: Willie 's a smart boy .
WILLIE: If I ever find the time I 'm going to take a course at the university .
LUCY: What happened , Tommy boy ? What 's the matter ?
TOM: I gave out the handbills , Pa .
WILLIE: Speak up . Speak up .
LUCY: Let him tell it his own way . Go on , Tommy .
TOM: This time they were waiting for me . They took them away from me . Threw them in the dirt and beat me up . I ought some of them back .
WILLIE: Good boy . Have you eaten yet , Tom ?
LUCY: Let him wash up first .
WILLIE: I 'm going to run and you 're not going to stop me . I 'm gon na run even if I do n't get a single vote .
JACK: Here you are the last of the Willie Stark articles . Now can I go ?
MADISON: Yes . You 've earned your vacation . You 've been writing these like you eally mean them . Jack rises and walks toward the door .
JACK: I do .
MRS. BURDEN: Floyd , Jack 's home . Oh , he looks fine does n't he look fine ? How do I look , Jackie boy ?
JACK: You look beautiful , Mother .
MRS. BURDEN: I 've got so many things planned fo you parties and it 'll be just like old times . But first , let 's have a drink .
MCEVOY: Ca n't that wait until this evening ? She goes ahead and pours the drinks .
MRS. BURDEN: Floyd honey my son 's home .
MCEVOY: How long do you plan on staying ?
JACK: Two or three weeks . If that 's all ight with you .
MRS. BURDEN: I 'm sure your father would be
JACK: Stepfather , Mother .
MRS. BURDEN: Now , Jackie here we all are . Floyd , Jackie , myself . To the best time we 've ever had together .
JACK: Yes , Mother .
STANTON: Is my shingle showing ?
JUDGE: Good to see you , boy . Very good .
JACK: Good to see you , Judge . How have you een ? What have you been doing ? They walk back together to the patio tables .
JUDGE: Oh , just sitting here waiting fo all of you to come home . You know , when a man starts to get old his eyes stray and play funny tricks on him . As I watched you in that boat I thought sure I saw a boy of twelve with a fishing rod in his hands . And I was sure the first thing he 'd say would be
JACK: Do you mind if I kiss your niece , sir ? He kisses her , and they turn and walk away .
MRS. BURDEN: To all the good times we 've had together at Burden 's Landing . And especially to this one . Because my son 's home .
JACK: Thank you , Mother . Thank you very much .
MRS. BURDEN: Monty , Anne and I have been discussing Jack 's career . What do you think he ought to go in for ? Shall he be a lawyer , doctor Jack looks at Anne .
ANNE: We were just discussing whether you should
JACK: I like what I 'm doing , Mother .
MCEVOY: You do very well at it . I read you articles about this fellow Willie Stark . Very convincing Too convincing for my tastes .
JACK: A lot of people like them .
MCEVOY: A lot of people are fools . Articles like that should n't be permitted . They only tend to incite people .
JACK: What are you afraid of ?
STANTON: I thought they were very good . I was proud of you , Jack . I was particularly interested in Stark 's ideas on health and medicine . You know the conditions at the hospital I work in . They 're intolerable . I 'd like to meet this Willie Stark . He sounds like an honest man .
MCEVOY: Honest man ? This state is full of these log-cabin Abe Lincolns with price tags on them . The louder he yells the higher his price .
JACK: You think you can buy anything , do n't you ?
MCEVOY: Yes , do n't you ?
JUDGE: I think this state could stand a few changes .
MCEVOY: Well , I 'll tell you what I think
ANNE: Oh , please let 's not talk politics .
MRS. BURDEN: Anne is right . I absolutely forbid any more of it . I know what we need , we need another toast . You propose it , Monty you 're so good at it . The Judge picks up his glass and stands up .
JUDGE: To the young people to Anne , to Jack , to Adam To what lies before them . To the world they 'll make in spite of the mistakes we 've made .
MCEVOY: The mistakes you 've made , not me . You 're all still pretty high and mighty , are n't you ? You all think this state needs a change . You do n't like the way it 's run . Well , who 's going to run it ? Willie Stark ? The Judge ? You ? You can be bought too . As a matter of fact you have been . And with my money .
MRS. BURDEN: Jack She hurries after him . Exterior Veranda , Night
JACK: Apologize ? I 'd rather die .
MRS. BURDEN: I 've got to live with him .
JACK: Well , I do n't . Neither do you . You do n't love him , Mother . You neve did .
MRS. BURDEN: Son , do n't spoil anything now He can help you .
JACK: I can get along without him . You need this house . And the parties . And the cars and the clothes and the lies . I do n't . It 's the truth , Mother , face it . For once in your life , face it . Mrs . Burden appeals to Anne .
MRS. BURDEN: Anne , please please make him understand .
JACK: Anne , Burden 's Landing is a place on the moon . It is n't real . It does n't exist . It 's me pretending I live on what I earn . It 's my mother trying to keep herself young , and drinking herself old doing it . It 's you and Adam living in this house as though your father were still alive . It 's an old man like the Judge dreaming of the past Anne , come away with me .
ANNE: And do what ?
JACK: And live in a shack and eat red beans . Anne , what do you want me to do ?
ANNE: Oh , Jack , Jack , you have n't been sure . You 've gone from one thing to the other a year at law school , and now this job as a reporter
JACK: Are you afraid I ca n't make a living ?
ANNE: Oh , no , Jack , it is n't that . I do n't care about the money . It it 's just that I I want you to be something .
JACK: What is it you want me to be ?
ANNE: I do n't know . It 's just that I want you to be to do something important .
JACK: Like your father . All right . I 'll un for governor . Anne , I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry I said that .
ANNE: All right , Jack . I 'll go away with you . I 'll do anything you want me to do . They kiss .
JACK: Anne , I 've wanted you to say that more than anything in the world , and now that you 've said it Anne , I guess you were right . I 'm not sure of anything , including myself . I 'm not sure I could live up to the Anne , wait for me . Please wait fo me .
ANNE: I 'll wait for you .
MADISON: Hello , Jack . Cut your vacation short , did n't you ?
JACK: Yeah .
MADISON: By the way , Jack , the fellow you wrote the articles about uh Stark .
JACK: Yeah ?
MADISON: He lost .
JACK: Well , I guess that 's the end of Willie Stark .
WILLIE: Measure of the damages is caused y
LUCY: A breach
WILLIE: A breach
LUCY: Of an agreement
WILLIE: Of an agreement
LUCY: To sell personal property
WILLIE: To sell Oh , two years of this .
LUCY: Oh , go on , Willie , go on . He opens the book again .
WILLIE: Willie Stark Bachelor of Law
LUCY'S VOICE: Go on , Willie , go on .
WILLIE'S VOICE: They 're not going to kick me around like I was dirt .
LUCY'S VOICE: If you lose you can give a little more time studying your law books .
WILLIE'S VOICE: I 'm going to be on that same street corner tomorrow , Mr. Duffy !
DUFFY'S VOICE: By all means . Free speech , free country , Willie .
WILLIE'S VOICE: That brick factory is owned by a other-in-law of one of the commissioners . The county commissioners rejected the low bid on the schoolhouse .
TEACHER: All right , children , this is a fire drill .
MAN: Oh , Lord , I 'm punished for voting against an honest man .
WILLIE'S VOICE: A voice in the wilderness . A man named Willie Stark
WILLIE: How about that , Lucy , that 's me .
MADISON: Get up there . Get up there fast . Your friend , Willie , is hotter than a firecracker . Jack starts toward the door .
POLITICIAN: Look , before this Kanoma City business we had this whole area tied up . Now we 're losing to Hickville .
HARRISON: Well , all I know is , the way it is now it looks like I 'm not going to win .
POLITICIAN: I know a way find a dummy .
SADIE: Find a dummy . That 's what we 've got .
POLITICIAN: A guy from the sticks strong enough to grab some votes and dumb enough not to ask questions .
DUFFY: If you want to listen to a boy from the sticks , I know just the guy . They crowd around to listen .
JACK: No more politics , eh , Willie ?
WILLIE: No , I worked too hard in my time to get there . I think I 'll just go on practicing law and make a little more money .
JACK: The question I 'd like to know is , why all the speeches you 're making around the countryside ?
WILLIE: Wonder who that is ?
DUFFY: Brought some people all the way up from the state capital just to meet you . Folks , I want you to meet Willie Stark , the next governor of our state .
WILLIE: Folks , if you 'll just bear patiently with me for a couple of minutes , I 'd like to tell you what this state needs . It needs a balanced tax program . Now I 'd like to give you the facts and the figures . Some of the townspeople start to move away .
JACK: Fine , Willie , fine .
WILLIE: Say I forgot to send a telegram to Lucy Conductor ! Jack and Sadie exchange looks .
DUFFY: I would n't add a thing . Just give them the facts .
PILLSBURY: Yeah and the figures .
DUFFY: Great speech . Sadie sips her drink .
WILLIE: What this state needs is a balanced tax program . Last year , last yea the state claimed to have spent on oads
JACK: Do you mind if I sit with you , Sadie ?
SADIE: Stand sit
JACK: Thanks Tell me , what are you on this merry-go-round for ?
SADIE: I take notes .
JACK: For whom ?
SADIE: For those who pay me .
JACK: Which is .
SADIE: People .
JACK: Smart people .
SADIE: Oh , yeah . Anybody that pays me is smart .
JACK: You do n't have to be smart to frame a guy like Willie Stark .
SADIE: No . No , brother , you do n't .
JACK: It is a frame , is n't it ?
SADIE: Why do n't you give me a cigarette ?
JACK: To split the vote and win the election for Harrison , huh ?
SADIE: If you know , why do you ask ?
JACK: I just want to make sure .
SADIE: Yeah .
JACK: Look , why do n't you tell the boys ack home to save their money . Willie could n't steal a vote from from Abe Lincoln in the Cradle of the Confederacy .
SADIE: I wish the poor had enough sense to have somebody give him a good greasing for the beating he 's going to get . 'Cause this way all he gets out of it is the ride . Hey , those speeches ! Ai n't they awful ? Ai n't they just plain awful ? Question to you if somebody told him he was a sucker , do you think he 'd quit ?
JACK: I do n't know , Sadie . I really do n't know .
WILLIE: Did it sound all right , Mr . Burden ?
JACK: Fine , Willie , fine .
WILLIE: Thanks .
WILLIE'S VOICE: Now , friends , if you will bea patiently with me for a few minutes , I 'll give you the figures . What we need is a balanced tax program
JACK'S VOICE: No , Willie , no .
SADIE: What I need is some sleep . Shut up !
JACK: Shut up yourself ! Listen , Willie , try it on your feet this time .
WILLIE: Oh , no . Wait a minute . My feet are killing me . Let me stay here , huh ?
JACK: All right Look , Willie , you tell 'em too much . Just tell 'em you 're going to soak the fat boys and forget the rest of the tax stuff .
WILLIE: That 's what I say .
JACK: But it 's the way you say it . Willie , make 'em cry . Make 'em laugh , make 'em mad , even mad at you . Stir 'em up and they 'll love it and come back for more . But for heaven 's sake do n't try and improve their minds .
WILLIE: A man do n't have to be governor .
JACK: What ?
WILLIE: A man do n't have to be governor . Pause .
JACK: Well , they have n't counted up the votes yet .
WILLIE: Oh , I 'm going to lose , Mr . Burden . I know that . Do n't try and fool me . I 'm not going to lie to you . I wanted it . I wanted it so badly I stayed up nights thinking about it . A man wants something so badly he gets mixed up in knowing what he wants . It 's something inside of you . I would have made a good governor . Bette than those other fellows . There is a knock on the door .
JACK: Come in .
WILLIE: A great governor .
SADIE: Since you wo n't let me sleep you might at least give me a drink .
WILLIE: Build them highways greatest system of highways in the country .
JACK: Help yourself .
WILLIE: I 'll build schools .
SADIE: What 's up ?
JACK: Nothing except Willie here has een saying as how he 's not going to e governor .
SADIE: So you told him .
JACK: I do n't tell anyone anything I just listen .
SADIE: Who told you ?
WILLIE: Told me what ? Told me what ?
SADIE: That you 're not going to be governor .
WILLIE: Jack ! Told me what ? Told me what ?
SADIE: All right ! That you 've been framed , you poor sap . Willie looks at her steadily for a moment .
WILLIE: Framed ?
SADIE: And how ! Oh , you decoy , you woodenhead decoy ! And you let 'em . You let 'em ecause you thought you were the little lamb of God . But you know what you are ? Well , you 're the goat ! You are the sacrificial goat ! You are a sap ecause you let 'em .
JACK: Sadie ! That 's enough .
SADIE: Enough ? He did n't even get anything out of it . Oh , they 'd have paid you to take a rap like that , but they did n't have to pay a sap like you . Oh , no , you were so full of yourself and hot air , all you wanted was a chance to stand up on your hind legs and make a speech my friends , what this state needs is a good five-cent cigar . What this state needs is a
WILLIE: Is it true ?
SADIE: He wants to know if it 's true .
WILLIE: Is it true ?
JACK: That 's what they tell me .
SADIE: Here . Willie drinks it all .
JACK: Hey , lay off that . You 're not used to it .
SADIE: He 's not used to a lot of things . Are you , Willie ?
JACK: Why do n't you lay off of him , Sadie ?
SADIE: Are you , Willie ? Are you ? Are you are you , are you , are you ?
JACK: Well , things seem to have quieted down .
SADIE: Yeah , I quieted him down .
JACK: Yeah . How was he ? Noisy ?
SADIE: Oh , he reared some . He 's been telling me all the things he 's going to do . He 's going to do big things , this fella . He 's going to be President . He 's going to kill people with his are hands . I quieted him down Hey ! Who 's Lucy ?
JACK: His wife .
SADIE: He talks like she 's his mammy she 's going to blow his nose fo him . Jack sits on the bed next to Willie .
JACK: Well , I 'll take him from here on in . They 're waiting for him at the arbecue .
SADIE: Yeah , well give me a receipt for the ody and I 'll be on my way .
JACK: Hey , Willie , Willie come on , wake up , Willie . Come on , Willie .
DUFFY: Where is he ?
SADIE: There he is .
DUFFY: Is he drunk ?
JACK: Never touches the stuff . Lucy does n't favor drinkin ' . Duffy follows Willie up on the platform .
SADIE: How 'd you get him here ? He was out stiff .
JACK: Hair of the dog that bit him .
SADIE: Hair ? He must have swallowed the dog .
CHAIRMAN: Ladies and gentlemen , it gives me a great deal of pleasure to introduce to you that true man of the people , the next governor of the state Willie Stark .
WILLIE: My friends
SADIE: Hey !
WILLIE'S VOICE: So get ready to laugh .
SADIE: What 's he up to ?
JACK: Shut up !
WILLIE: Get ready to bust your sides laughing , 'cause it 's sure a funny story . It 's about a hick a hick like you , if you please . Yeah , like you . He grew up on the dirt roads and gully washes of a farm . He knew what it was to get up before dawn and get feed and slop and milk before breakfast and then set out before sunup and walk six miles to a one-room , slab- sided schoolhouse . Oh , this hick knew what it was to be a hick , all ight . He figured if he was going to get anything done , he had to do it himself . So he sat up nights and studied books . He studied law because he thought he might be able to change things some for himself , and fo folks like him .
JACK: Sadie , he 's wonderful wonderful
WILLIE: So they told the hick and he swallowed it . He looked in his heart and he thought in all humility how he 'd like to try and change things . He was just a country boy who thought that even the plainest , poorest man can be governor if his fellow citizens find he 's got the stuff for the job . Well , those fellows in the striped pants they saw the hick and they took him in .
DUFFY: Willie , what are you trying to do ? Willie turns on him , roaring .
WILLIE: There he is ! There 's your Judas Iscariot . Look at him lickspittle nose- wiper . Duffy gestures frantically to the band .
DUFFY: Play ! Play !
WILLIE: Look at him !
DUFFY: Play anything .
WILLIE: Look at him ! Joe Harrison 's dummy ! Look at him !
DUFFY: That 's a lie !
WILLIE: Look at him !
DUFFY: Go get him , boys go get him .
WILLIE: Now , shut up ! Shut up , all of you . Now , listen to me , you hicks . Yeah , you 're hicks too , and they fooled you a thousand times , just like they fooled me . But this time I 'm going to fool somebody . I 'm going to stay in this race . I 'm on my own and I 'm out for blood . The camera moves in close on Willie 's face .
POLITICIAN: I want his throat cut , from ear to ear . Exterior Willie 's Campaign Montage
MADISON: No use going any further , Jack . We are n't printing them any more .
JACK: I thought the Chronicle line was
MADISON: Divide and conquer ? Stark is getting too big for his britches and the hicks are getting too smart . We 're now supporting Harrison .
JACK: How do you square that ?
MADISON: I work here .
JACK: Well , I do n't not any more .
MADISON: Jack , you fool .
JACK: If you had any guts you 'd print this
MADISON: I work here . I take orders .
JACK: I know . You 've got a wife and three kids and your boy goes to Princeton .
MADISON: You wo n't find it easy to get anothe job .
JACK: I 'm too rich to work .
WILLIE: Double bourbon .
SADIE: Same for me .
WILLIE: And a beer . I hear you got fired from the paper .
JACK: You heard wrong , Willie . I quit .
WILLIE: You 're smart . 'Cause before I 'm through with that mob they 're not going to have enough money left to pay the boy that cleans the spittoons .
JACK: How do you feel , Willie ?
WILLIE: I feel fine , fine . You see , Jack , I learned something . Willie and Sadie exchange looks .
JACK: Yeah what ? Close shot of Willie .
WILLIE: How to win .
JACK: I did n't see Willie again until his second campaign four years later . Interior Office , Night Jack turns in some copy to a man at a desk .
JACK: They were all hopping on his andwagon even Tiny Duffy .
WILLIE: Do you want to know what my platform is ? Here it is I 'm going to soak the fat boys and I 'm going to spread it thin .
JACK: Willie was right he 'd learned how to win Exterior Park , Day
WILLIE: This is Jack Burden , a friend of mine . From now on he 's going to live here . Give him anything he wants .
DUFFY: Let these boys through , officer .
WILLIE: Duffy works for me now .
JACK: It looks like everybody works fo you . They start up the second flight of stairs .
WILLIE: No . No , not yet . But I want to keep him around . He reminds me of something I never want to forget .
DUFFY: These are the boys that can get the oys .
WILLIE: How many do you think we can get ?
DUFFY: Fifty .
WILLIE: How much ?
DUFFY: Five dollars a head .
WILLIE: What do you think , Sugar ? Do they look like good boys ?
SUGAR BOY: T-t-they b-b-better be .
WILLIE: Get a hundred All right , go on , all of you . Blow . Blow , blow . You too , Duffy . Go on . Duffy and his men turn and go downstairs .
JACK: If they all look like them I 'd hate not to take one .
WILLIE: That 's the object . Not like when they beat up my boy Tom .
JACK: How is Tom ?
WILLIE: Oh , he 's fine . He starts college in the fall .
JACK: Oh . And Lucy ?
WILLIE: Fine fine .
SADIE: Hey , I need a boy Where 's a boy ? Take that downstairs ; they 're waiting for it . Right away , on the double . Listen , baby , you 've got to double- space all of this he ca n't read , see .
JACK: Sadie !
SADIE: And they need four copies . Hi , Jack . How are you ?
WILLIE: Sadie is my secretary now . Oh , pardon me .
SADIE: Fix your tie , Willie . Interior Bedroom Hotel Suite , Day Willie and Jack enter from the office .
WILLIE: Hey , Sugar .
JACK: Doing what ?
WILLIE: I do n't know . Something will turn up , wo n't it , Sadie ?
SADIE: Yeah . We need a college man around for research .
WILLIE: How much did they pay you on that newspaper ?
JACK: Three hundred dollars a month .
WILLIE: I could buy you cheap , could n't I ?
JACK: For a bag of salt .
WILLIE: No . No , I do n't play that way . I like you , boy . I always have . I 'll tell you what I 'll do . I 'll give you four hundred dollars a month and traveling expenses .
JACK: You throw money around like it was money . Willie gets up and walks to the window .
WILLIE: Money ? I do n't need money . People give me things .
JACK: Why ?
WILLIE: Because they believe in me .
JACK: I was going home again . But this time it was different . Now I had a feeling that maybe the waiting was over for me , and for Anne .
WILLIE: It 's a far cry from where I come from to this house .
JACK: Are there any questions ? Mr. McEvoy .
MCEVOY: No , I have no questions .
JACK: Judge ?
JUDGE: A few but it will hold .
STANTON: I have a question .
WILLIE: Shoot .
STANTON: A lot of people in this state have een saying that you 've been making deals some of them with the very groups that you claim you 're against . Is that true ?
JACK: Adam , you know how rumors start
WILLIE: Yes . Yes , that 's true . I have nothing to hide . I 'll make a deal with the devil if it 'll help me carry out my program . But believe me , there are no strings attached to those deals .
STANTON: You 're sure about that ?
WILLIE: Doc , Jack here has been telling me how you feel about things how you 'd like to see a new hospital uilt , a hospital that 's the biggest and best that money can buy . You want those things , Doc , because , well , because you 're a man who wants to do good . Now , I 'd like to ask you a question .
STANTON: Shoot . The guests laugh good-naturedly .
WILLIE: Do you know what good comes out of ?
STANTON: You tell me , Mr. Stark .
WILLIE: Out of bad that 's what good comes out of . Because you ca n't make it out of anything else . You did n't know that , did you ?
STANTON: No , I did n't There 's anothe question I 'd like to ask you . You say there 's only bad to start with and the good must come with the bad . Who 's to determine what 's good and what 's bad ? You ?
WILLIE: Why not ?
STANTON: How ?
WILLIE: Why , that 's easy . Just just make it up as you go along . More laughter . Willie smiles and goes on .
JACK: You 've got to say yes . With you in the race
JUDGE: I 'm an old bird I
WILLIE: But a game one . They laugh .
JUDGE: It 's a deal . They shake hands .
WILLIE: Jack , we have to get back to town a lot to do . Dr. Stanton .
ANNE: I 'm very glad to have met you .
CROWD: We want Willie ! We want Willie !
WILLIE: This is not a time for speechmaking . I should get on my knees and ask God to give me strength to carry out your will .
ANNE: Does he mean it , Jack ? Does he ?
STANTON: That 's his bribe . Anne and Jack watch Adam as he leaves .
JACK: What if it was his bribe ! He swept the old gang out of office . What if they hollered like stuck pigs ? He jammed through bill after bill and the people got what they wanted .
WILLIE: I demand that this bill be passed . Nobody 's going to tell me how to run this state .
JACK: He started to build the roads , the schools , the power dams , to change the face of the state from one end to the other His methods ?
WILLIE: Oh , look at him go . He 's going to be All-American .
JACK: They said he was building up a private army . But he was building , always uilding
SADIE: You low-down , no-good redneck
JACK: What goes on here ?
SECRETARY: That 's what Sadie wants to know . The boss poses for too many pictures . Jack grins , then walks into Sadie 's office .
SADIE: I 'll kill him .
JACK: Why , Sadie , I 'm surprised at you .
SADIE: I 'll kill him .
JACK: If I met her on the street I 'd neve ecognize her .
SADIE: Was she pretty ?
JACK: How should I know ? I was n't looking at her face Look , if it 's going to cause all this grief , why do n't you let him go ?
SADIE: Let him go ? I 'll kill him . I 'll drive him out of this state .
JACK: Just because a guy 's sitting with a couple of girls on his knees in public
SADIE: Public or private I know him . How about what happened in Chicago ? That girl on skates and the time you oth went to St. Louis There 's a new invention , you know , Photography and newsreels . Willie Stark in a nightclub Willie Stark with a londe .
JACK: You could always bleach your hair .
SADIE: I could also break every bone in his neck . After all I 've done for him Now he goes two-timing me .
JACK: He 's been two-timing Lucy . So there 's another kind of arithmetic for what he 's doing to you .
SADIE: Lucy ? If she had her way he 'd be back in Kanoma City slopping the hogs right now . And he knows it . He knows what she 'd do for him . She had her chance .
JACK: You seem to think Lucy 's on her way out , do n't you ?
SADIE: He 'll ditch her Give him time .
JACK: You ought to know . She slaps his face .
WILLIE: All right , come on , both of you . Let 's go , hurry it up .
NEWSMEN: Have you heard about Pillsbury ? What do you intend to do about Pillsbury ? How about it , Governor ? Willie pushes by them .
WILLIE: Later , boys , later . Say , Jack , go back and get the Judge . Let 's get him over to my hotel just as soon as you can .
ANNE: I waited for you . Hello . You promised we could uh discuss my charity project Children 's home ?
WILLIE: Well , I 'm very sorry . Something very important came up . You 'll call me later , wo n't you ?
ANNE: Yes , certainly .
SADIE: We 're late .
WILLIE: Look at you , Pillsbury . Fifty years old , gut-sprung , teeth gone , neve had a dime . If the Almighty had intended for you to be rich he 'd have taken care of that a long time ago . The idea of you being rich that 's plain blasphemy . Ai n't that a fact ? Pillsbury does n't answer .
PILLSBURY: Yes .
WILLIE: Louder , man . Do n't mumble . Speak up . Say it 's a fact , a blasphemous fact .
PILLSBURY: It 's a fact , a blasphemous fact .
SADIE: Yeah ? Oh , I see . Dumond ca n't come . He says his wife is sick .
WILLIE: I do n't care if she 's dying . Sugar , get the car . Get him and bring him over here .
PILLSBURY: Yes .
WILLIE: Louder , man . And say , I understand that .
PILLSBURY: I understand that .
WILLIE: Give him a pen and some paper , Sadie . There is a knock on the door .
PILLSBURY: No .
WILLIE: Well , sign it ! Do n't put any date on it . I can fill that in when I need it . Pillsbury signs the paper .
JUDGE: The papers have the story .
WILLIE: Yeah , I know .
JUDGE: They 're talking about impeachment proceedings .
WILLIE: Against who ?
JUDGE: This time , Pillsbury .
WILLIE: I got that `` this time , '' Judge .
JUDGE: How true is it ?
WILLIE: It 's too true . The phone rings .
SADIE: Yes ? This is it , Willie . Jeff Hopkins on the wire .
WILLIE: What have we got on Hopkins , Jack ? Hello , Jeff . About that Pillsbury usiness Here 's what I want you to do when it comes up in the legislature . Now , wait a minute , wait a minute . You listen to me . You got a mortgage coming due on that place of yours in about five weeks , have n't you ? You 'd like to get it renewed , would n't you ? All right , Tiny 'll talk to you in the morning . He grins and hangs up the phone .
JUDGE: You have n't answered my question . Why are you saving Pillsbury 's hide ?
WILLIE: I 'm not a bit interested in Pillsbury 's hide . It 's something much more important than that . If the McMurphy boys get the notion they can get away with this , there 's no telling where they 'll stop .
JUDGE: Or where you will Pillsbury is guilty . As attorney general of this state , it 's my job to prosecute .
WILLIE: Judge , you talk like Pillsbury was was human . He is n't . He 's a thing . You do n't prosecute an adding machine if the spring goes busted and makes a mistake . You fix it . Well , I fixed him . I 'm not a bit interested in Pillsbury . It 's something much bigge than that .
JUDGE: Yes , it is .
JACK: He 's right , Judge . Ca n't you see that he 's right ?
JUDGE: He 's right because you want him to e right . Because you 're afraid to admit you 've made a mistake . Do it now before it 's too late . I 'm offering my resignation as attorney general . You 'll have it in writing by messenger in the morning dated .
WILLIE: It took you a long time to make up your mind , Judge . A long time . What made you take such a long time ?
JUDGE: I was n't sure .
WILLIE: And now you are ? The Judge nods .
JUDGE: I knew how , but I never knew why . He starts to leave .
WILLIE: You 're not by any chance thinking of going over to McMurphy 's boys , are you ?
JUDGE: I 'm through with politics .
WILLIE: I 'm happy to hear that . No hard feelings .
JUDGE: Goodbye , Governor . Are you coming with me , Jack ? Jack turns away .
WILLIE: Do you think he means it when he says he 's through with politics , Sadie ?
SADIE: No . No , I do n't .
WILLIE: What about you , Jack ?
JACK: I 've known the Judge all my life . He 's always meant everything he 's said .
WILLIE: All right . All right . Take it easy . I 'll take your word for it .
ANNE: Please take me home now , Sugar Boy .
WILLIE: You 've got to understand me .
ANNE: I understand you . It 's myself I do n't understand .
WILLIE: Do you think I like sneaking around corners any more than you do ? But ight now , with the Pillsbury business and with your uncle quitting If I got a divorce
ANNE: Maybe we 'd better stop seeing each other .
WILLIE: No . No , we wo n't stop seeing each other , will we ?
ANNE: No .
WILLIE: Because you believe in what I tell you .
ANNE: Because I believe what you tell me . Sadie approaches .
SADIE: Good evening , Governor Stark . I thought you might like to know that Judge Stanton kept his promise . He gave the story to every paper in town .
WILLIE: Sugar , meet me at the hotel as soon as you can .
SENATOR: These are serious charges that Judge Stanton has given to the press . This legislature is entitled to a complete and full report on the Pillsbury affair . Let the truth be known .
2ND SENATOR: Let it come out .
3RD SENATOR: I move that we adjourn .
4TH SENATOR: I second the motion .
CHAIRMAN: All those in favor , say aye Motion carried . The house is adjourned .
MAN: If you let Willie Stark get away with the Pillsbury graft , there 's no telling
JACK: But we beat the Pillsbury rap It 's over .
WILLIE: These things are never over . I 'll tell you what I want you to do , Jack . I want you to start a new page in that black book of yours unde then name of Judge Stanton .
JACK: You 're crazy . There 's nothing on the Judge .
SADIE: Why ? Because his name is Stanton ?
WILLIE: Ssshhh , easy .
JACK: What if I wo n't do it ?
WILLIE: You know , some of this has rubbed off on you .
JACK: What are you going to do ? Have me shot ?
WILLIE: No no but I 'll have to get myself a new boy .
JACK: I tell you there 's nothing on the Judge .
WILLIE: Jack , there 's something on everybody . Man is conceived in sin and born in corruption .
JACK: It 's a waste of time .
WILLIE: What 's the matter , Jack ? Are you afraid you might find something out ? Jack stares at him .
JACK: I kept saying to myself that Willie was wrong about the Judge . If there was anything left at Burden 's Landing , it was honor . I had to believe that .
ANNE: Why do you want to know ?
JACK: I do n't want to know , but I 've got to .
ANNE: Did he tell you
JACK: Did who tell me ?
ANNE: I do n't know . I how should I know if the Judge was ever broke ?
STANTON: Hello Come on , Anne , take this food and start cooking . I 'm hungry .
JACK: Me , I 'm on the thirsty side . Bring some glasses , Anne , quick . He joins Adam , who has opened the piano .
STANTON: It 's been a long time since I played this thing . What do you say we wake up the ghosts , huh ?
JACK: Another glass , Anne , for a ghost .
STANTON: Remember the last time I played this ? You and Anne were dancing ?
JACK: Shall we dance ?
ANNE: Let 's let 's have a drink first . Adam starts to pour the wine .
JACK: No , no keep playing . Anne and I want to hear this , do n't we , Anne ? Adam ghost and me .
STANTON: What shall we drink to ?
JACK: To the ghost ? To Adam , to the director of the new medical center .
STANTON: Do n't you ever stop working for him ?
ANNE: Adam !
STANTON: I came up here to get away
JACK: I 'm sorry , Adam .
ANNE: Well , I 'm not . What 's wrong with eing the director of the new medical center ?
STANTON: Nothing , except that I 'm not going to take it .
JACK: Why ? Because your uncle resigned ?
STANTON: That 's partly it . There are othe things .
ANNE: What other things ?
STANTON: You too ?
ANNE: Yes , me too .
JACK: Anne , if Adam does n't want to discuss it , let 's not .
STANTON: All right , let 's discuss it .
ANNE: But calmly .
STANTON: Calmly . Go ahead , Jack . Why do you think he wants me ?
JACK: Because you 're the best man for the job .
STANTON: It could have nothing to do with my name being Stanton ?
JACK: It could have . Let 's grant that .
STANTON: That 's your answer .
JACK: No , it 's not . If that were the only answer I would n't be with him any more . There 's another side of it . I 've learned something from him . You ca n't make an omelet without cracking eggs .
STANTON: Or heads .
ANNE: But at least a hospital will be built , and the sick will be cared for .
STANTON: At what price ?
JACK: At any price .
STANTON: Do you really believe that , Jack ?
JACK: I really believe that Stark wants to do good . You do too . It 's a matte of method . Many times out of evil comes good . Well , pain is an evil . As a doctor you should know that .
STANTON: Pain is an evil ; it is not evil . It is not evil in itself . Stark is evil .
JACK: The people of the state do n't think so .
STANTON: How would they know ? The first thing he did was to take over the newspapers and the radio stations . Why be so afraid of criticism ? If Stark is interested in doing good , he should also be interested in the truth . I do n't see how you can separate the two . No , Stark is not for me .
ANNE: No , Stark is not for you . Well , what is for you ? Pride . Pride , that 's all it is foolish , stupid pride . All you 've ever talked about is what you could do if if somebody would tear down and build . All right , all ight , somebody has , and he 's given it to you . But he 's not for you . No , he 's not for you .
STANTON: Anne Anne Interior Stanton Hallway and Stairs , Night
JACK: Will I find anything , Judge ? Will I ? I did n't find it all at once . It takes a long time to go through old courthouse records and musty deeds a very long time . But it was n't too hard for me . I was well trained in esearch , especially this kind . He pulls out a file .
SADIE'S VOICE: It 's me , Sadie Burke .
JACK: Wait a minute . He hides the documents under his pillow .
SADIE: Phew ! Awful lot of smoke . Awful lot of whisky . You sober ?
JACK: Stone .
SADIE: I 'll have one with you . What are you hiding out for ?
JACK: I 'm not . I 've been sleeping .
SADIE: For four days ? You 've been back in town for four days .
JACK: Willie knows everything .
SADIE: Willie 's worried about his boy .
JACK: Willie 's boy is worried about Willie 's oy .
SADIE: Well , why do n't you put something on the phonograph a low-down , mean lues . Play it over and over again until you 're sick of it . Then crack it and go back to work . I do it all the time .
JACK: That 's not my problem .
SADIE: No , it is n't your problem . I 'll wait for you if you want to powder your nose . Jack goes into the bathroom .
JACK: I 'll be with you in a minute .
SADIE: Hmmm . Yeah , I can see it . I 've got to look in the mirror to be able to see it . Soft , white skin not like mine . I had smallpox when I was a kid . Where I lived it seemed nearly all the kids had smallpox
JACK: What do you mean ?
SADIE: A girl like that could be a governor 's wife . Or even a President 's .
JACK: What are you talking about ?
SADIE: He ditched Lucy , he ditched me , and he 'll ditch you .
JACK: Answer me !
SADIE: He 'll ditch everybody in the whole world because that 's what Willie wants . Nobody in the world but him .
JACK: What are you talking about ?
SADIE: You and your high-tone friends . What do they know ? What do they know about anything ? Why did you have to mix her in ?
JACK: You 're crazy , Sadie . You 're out of your mind .
SADIE: Am I ? Well , why do n't you go down and ask her . Or ask him . Ask Willie .
JACK: Shut up !
SADIE: Go ahead , ask him .
JACK: Shut up !
SADIE: Ask him ! He slaps her hard .
JACK: He 's off today .
WILLIE: It 's only practice . He 'll be all ight tomorrow You been gone a long time , Jack .
JACK: Yeah . I figured if you needed me you 'd yell .
WILLIE: Why 'd you lay around the hotel ?
JACK: Thinking .
WILLIE: About what ?
JACK: Things .
WILLIE: What did you find on the Judge ?
JACK: Nothing .
WILLIE: You sure you did n't find anything on the Judge ?
JACK: Yeah , I 'm sure .
WILLIE: You 're going to keep trying , are n't you ?
JACK: If you want me to .
WILLIE: I want you to . There 's something else I want you to do too .
JACK: What ? Bucket boy ? Towel slinger ? What ?
WILLIE: What 's eating you , Jack ?
JACK: What else do you want me to do ?
WILLIE: If you 've got something on your mind , oy , spit it out . We 've been togethe too long to play games .
JACK: What do you want me to do ?
WILLIE: I hear your pal Adam Stanton turned down the job as director of the hospital . That 's bad . Especially at a time like this .
JACK: Oh ? How did you hear it ?
WILLIE: Why ? What difference does it make ?
JACK: I just wanted to know .
WILLIE: I heard it around .
JACK: How did you hear he turned it down , Willie ?
WILLIE: I 'll be right back , Jack . I want to see what 's happening here .
COACH: You going to practice the way I tell you .
TOM: I 'm going to do it the way I want to do it . Willie comes up to them .
WILLIE: Tom , come here . What 's going on here ?
COACH: I do n't care if he is your son , Governor No special rules fo him .
TOM: It does n't make any difference to me either way whether I play or not .
WILLIE: Well , it does to me . What do you want him to do ?
COACH: To behave himself . Like the rest of the boys . Four times this season he 's broken training . He comes on the practice field half potted .
WILLIE: Tom , you 're going to have to obey the rules . Do you hear me ? You 're going to obey the rules .
TOM: I put 'em across , do n't I ? Every Saturday I put 'em across and I can still do it , drunk or sober . That 's all you want , is n't it for me to put 'em across so you can big-shot it around ? Is n't that all you want ? He walks away .
WILLIE: Tom ! He 's a little high-strung . Tom , come here . Tom !
HELENE: Come on , Tommy let 's go faster . Come on
2ND COP: It 's the governor 's son . He throws the bottle away .
LUCY: Willie , Mr. Hale 's here to see you .
WILLIE: Go on upstairs , Lucy . I have some usiness I want to talk over with Mr. Hale .
HALE: What I 've got to say anybody can listen to Where 's your boy ?
WILLIE: Now now , do n't get excited . Get me another drink , Sugar .
HALE: My daughter may die .
WILLIE: She 's not going to die . She 'll get the best medical attention there is . No expense will be spared .
HALE: Where 's your boy ?
LUCY: I 'll get him .
WILLIE: Wait a minute , Lucy . He 's asleep . And the doctor said after a good night 's sleep he 'll be all right .
LUCY: No , he wo n't be all right unless you make him all right . I 'll get him . She goes .
WILLIE: Lucy ! You care for a drink ?
HALE: No thanks .
WILLIE: Accidents will happen , you know .
HALE: Accidents ? Your boy was drunk .
WILLIE: I saw the police report . There there was nothing about drunkenness on the police report .
HALE: Whose police and whose report ? I say the boy was drunk . And I know it . Tom comes down the stairs , with Lucy .
TOM: Mr. Hale
WILLIE: Tom , the doctor says you need rest , oy .
TOM: I do n't want you to try to cover up for me . I was wrong that 's all there is to it .
WILLIE: You do n't know what you 're talking about . I saw the police report
TOM: I do n't care what the police report says . I was driving and I was drunk . It 's all my fault . Anything you want to do to me , you can do . Whatever you want me to do , I 'll do .
WILLIE: Nobody has to do anything . Stop worrying . I 'll take care of everything .
TOM: I do n't want you to take care of anything .
WILLIE: Tom , go on upstairs and get some est , boy . Go on go on go on . Tom walks slowly toward the stairs .
HALE: I did n't say .
WILLIE: What business are you in ?
HALE: Trucking business .
WILLIE: Trucking business . Trucks run on state roads . If a man in the trucking usiness had a contract with the state , a big one , that would be pretty good , would n't it ? Go on , Jack . Tell him what would happen . Jack is silent .
HALE: You 're trying to bribe me , are n't you ?
WILLIE: No , no . No , I 'm not trying to bribe you . I 'm I 'm only talking things over with you , that 's all .
HALE: You 're pretty good at talking . I emember when you first started talking . A place called Upton . You did a lot of talking then and the things you said made sense , to me and a lot of other people . I believed in you I followed you and I fought for you . Well , the words are still good . But you 're not . And I do n't believe you ever were . He walks out of the room .
WILLIE: Sugar , follow him . Keep calling in .
JACK: I 'd like Anne to see you now . I 'd like Anne to see you now , you drunken sot ! Come on .
NEWSMEN: What about the girl 's father , Governor ? Have you a statement to make ?
WILLIE: All right , all right , gentlemen . I 'll give you a statement . This whole thing is a mess of lies . It 's a frame . The man that made that statement have him repeat it to my face . He ca n't . He vanished . Let me ask you some questions . Where has he gone ? Where is he ?
REPORTER: Maybe you could answer those questions too , Governor .
WILLIE: I wo n't dignify that question with an answer .
ANOTHER REPORTER: One more question , Governor Where 's your son ?
WILLIE: At the football stadium , where he 's supposed to be . He 's going to play for State University , which this administration is responsible for . He 's not hiding from anybody , gentlemen . He 'll be out there in full view of seventy thousand cheering fans . One of which will be me . See you , men . He leaves , followed by Jack and Sugar Boy .
CROWD VOICES: Where 's Stark ? How about Tommy Stark ? Hey , Willie , send your boy in . Exterior Willie 's Box
WILLIE: Why do n't they put him in !
MAN: Come on , Willie send your boy in . A drunk comes over to his box .
DRUNK: What 's the matter , Willie is you little boy ashamed to show his face ?
DUFFY: Shut up ! Willie signals angrily to the police .
WILLIE: Get that man out of here ! Come on , get him out of here .
TOM: Ever since the accident , my head
WILLIE: The doctor said it was nothing .
TOM: Get dizzy ca n't see dizzy
WILLIE: You 're scared plain scared .
TOM: Get out of here !
WILLIE: Atta boy get mad . Show some spirit . Jack , tell him what his playing means . Go on , tell him .
JACK: You can never tell about a head injury . Maybe the boy 's hurt .
WILLIE: He 's hurt ? I 'm hurt . It was n't me that wrapped that car around the tree . It was n't me that got drunk . But me , I 'm takin ' the rap . Go on , kid . Get out there and play . Show 'em the kind of stuff a Stark is made of .
TOM: I would n't know .
JACK: Tom cut it out !
TOM: All right , I 'll play . Now get out of here .
P.A. ANNOUNCER: Stark 's going in ! The boos turn to cheers . The crowd applauds .
LUCY: Tommy Tommy Tommy !
SUGAR BOY: B-b-boss , you got ta eat . You g-g- got ta . Willie motions him away .
WILLIE: I 'm the one that made him play . I sent him in .
LUCY: Sit down , Willie . Please sit down .
WILLIE: I sent him in .
LUCY: What difference does that make now ? Jack comes in .
WILLIE: What goes on ?
JACK: There is n't a plane flying .
WILLIE: They got ta fly . This is my son . He 's got to live . Adam Stanton enters .
STANTON: I just got a call from Dr. Birnham . The earliest he can possibly get here will be tomorrow morning .
WILLIE: Is n't there anybody else we can get ?
JACK: I still think Dr. Stanton should operate .
STANTON: That 's up to Governor Stark . He wanted another doctor a specialist . I sent for one .
WILLIE: How bad is it really , doctor ?
STANTON: He 's unconscious and paralyzed . Lucy slumps in her chair .
WILLIE: Has he got a chance ?
STANTON: To live ? Yes .
WILLIE: What do you mean ?
STANTON: Even if the operation 's successful that is , if he lives I think he 'll e paralyzed for life .
WILLIE: You 'll do everything you can , wo n't you ? Anything between you and me.. that wo n't count , will it ? It does n't have to . Look , doc , anything you want in the world you just ask fo it and you got it . Go on , doc ask for it .
STANTON: There are some things , Governor Stark , that even you ca n't buy . Do you want me to operate , or do n't you ?
LUCY: Yes I want you to operate . Please , may I see Tom now ?
STANTON: Yes . They leave together .
WILLIE: How much does the doc know ?
JACK: About what ?
WILLIE: Oh , you know what I 'm talking about .
JACK: About what ?
WILLIE: About Anne and me .
JACK: He does n't know a thing not a thing . Jack turns and walks away .
ANNE: Jack , how is he ?
JACK: The boy ?
ANNE: Yes .
JACK: He 'll live .
ANNE: Oh , thank God . How is
JACK: Willie ?
ANNE: He blames himself , does n't he ?
JACK: He 'll find someone else to blame in a few days .
ANNE: Oh , I tried to call here at the hospital , but I just They walk together , along the waterfront .
JACK: Anne Anne , why did you do it ?
ANNE: He was n't like anybody I ever knew efore .
JACK: You mean he was n't like me .
ANNE: He was n't like anybody I ever knew efore . I love him , I guess . I guess that 's the reason .
JACK: Everybody loves him .
ANNE: He wants to marry me .
JACK: Are you going to ?
ANNE: Not now . It would hurt him . A divorce would hurt his career .
JACK: His career !
ANNE: Jack Jack , what are you going to do ? You ca n't leave him now . He needs you now more than he ever did before .
JACK: What Willie needs , Willie 's got .
ANNE: You do n't know him . You 've known him all these years and you do n't really know him at all .
JACK: What about Adam ?
ANNE: Adam ?
JACK: Well , you do n't have to worry about him . If Adam finds out it 'll be easy to prove a Stanton is no different than anybody else . Just show him these . Willie was ight a man is conceived in sin and born in corruption . Even Judge Stanton . Show them to him , Anne . Change the picture of the world that Adam has in his head , just like ou picture of it has been changed . He grips her by the shoulders .
POLICEMAN: What 's going on here ?
JACK: It 's all right , officer we both work for Willie Stark .
WILLIE: Right over there , that 's going to be the main building fifteen stories high , like on the model . Over there , that 's the laboratory . Finest technical equipment in the world .
STANTON: What are you trying to convince me of ? I 've taken the job .
WILLIE: Why ?
STANTON: My reasons are my own . Why are you uilding a hospital ?
WILLIE: To do some good for the people of the state .
STANTON: And get some votes .
WILLIE: Oh , there are lots of ways to get votes .
STANTON: Yes , I know I wo n't stand for any interference .
WILLIE: I wo n't interfere . I may fire you , ut I wo n't interfere .
STANTON: If that 's a threat , you 're wasting your time . You know what I think of your administration .
WILLIE: Yes , I know . I 'll tell you what You stay on your side of the fence ; I 'll stay on mine . Is that a deal ?
JACK: Now he had us all me , Anne , and Adam . Now we all worked for him .
NARRATOR'S VOICE: And so the eyes of the entire nation are now focused upon Governor Willie Stark , an amazing phenomenon on the American political scene . The whole state is filled with his accomplishments each of them , of course , bearing his personal signature , to make sure that no one will ever forget who gave them to the state .
NARRATOR'S VOICE: This is the way the roads used to e. But there are those who claim that they were adequate for the people 's needs , that you do n't need a four- or six-lane highway for a horse and buggy . Shot of horse pulling a plow . The empty , untraversed STARK HIGHWAY .
PRODUCER: How do you like it , Governor ? Willie stands and faces the producer .
WILLIE: How many theaters will this play in ?
PRODUCER: All over the country .
WILLIE: Hear that , Jack . All over the country .
PRODUCER: That 's our point of view , Governor . And that 's the way it stands .
WILLIE: All right , all right , that 's the way it stands as of now .
WILLIE: Hello , Lucy How are you making it , Pa ? How are you , Tom ?
LUCY: I made some refreshments for you friends . I 'll get them .
SADIE: I 'll help .
LUCY: No , thank you . Thank you kindly .
JACK: If you do n't mind , Mrs. Stark the oys have to get back to make the morning editions . Set 'em up on the porch , fellows . We 'll take some pictures out here , first .
WILLIE: You 're still a great cook , Lucy . Great cook . Well , I guess I better be getting ack to town . Nice to have spent the day with the family . Goodbye , Lucy . Tom .
TOM: Goodbye .
WILLIE: Take care of yourself , Pappy . Oh , uh how do you like the new radio I got you ? You know how it works ? You can get police calls on it . Come here , come here I 'll show you .
POLICE BROADCAST: Car sixty-two , proceed to five- eighteen Oak Street . Tom Jones beating his wife again .
WILLIE: All right , go ahead , go ahead .
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE: We interrupt this program to bring you a special announcement . This afternoon , the body of Richard Hale , father of the girl who died in the automobile accident involving the governor 's son , was found . A medical examination revealed he was beaten to death .
WILLIE: Your friend , the Judge .
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE: Thus an almost forgotten incident provided the spark that might set off the explosion needed to rock Willie Stark out of power . The latest eport is that impeachment proceedings may be instituted
WILLIE: How long will it take you to pack ? I want you to go back to Capital City with me tonight .
LUCY: Why ?
WILLIE: Because I need you .
TOM: What for ?
WILLIE: I 'll explain all of that later . Now , Lucy , do like I say .
JACK: I 'll wait outside .
WILLIE: You stay right here , Jack . I want you bear witness to what I 've got to say .
LUCY: She can be a witness too .
SADIE: I 'm going back to the capital and get hold of Duffy .
WILLIE: You stay right here , Sadie .
SADIE: Somebody 's got to go back to the capital . I 'll go in the other car .
WILLIE: All right , then tell Duffy not to do anything or say anything until I get there .
SADIE: Yes , Governor . She leaves .
TOM: Now he needs us . Now that he 's in trouble he needs us , so he can lead us around like monkeys with rings in our noses . So he can say to people , look at me , feel sorry for me just a family man with a wife and a crippled son
WILLIE: Shut up !
LUCY: Willie !
TOM: Why do n't you leave us alone ?
WILLIE: Leave him alone . How many scrapes have I gotten him out of ? How many girls ?
LUCY: Willie , stop .
WILLIE: It 's not him they 're after . It 's me . How many halfwitted apes do you think I 'm going to have to pay to square this one ? What do you think this is going to cost me ?
LUCY: What do you think it cost him ? Suddenly Willie turns his face away .
WILLIE: A man builds for his son . That 's all he builds for .
LUCY: Willie ! Tom Tom . Willie looks up at Jack and Pappy .
WILLIE: Give me a drink , Jack . Jack hands him a bottle and he takes a slug .
PAPPY: No good , Willie . No good .
SENATOR: Mr. Speaker , I offer a house esolution . Whereas Willie Stark , governor of this state , has been guilty of incompetence , corruption , and favoritism in office yes , and other high crimes that he is hereby impeached , and ordered to be tried y the senate .
WILLIE: What 's the score ?
DUFFY: They 're lined up against you solid . They had a meeting .
WILLIE: How do you know ? Were you there ?
DUFFY: Me ? What would I be doing there ?
WILLIE: Selling me out . He starts up the steps of the building .
SADIE: Eleven .
WILLIE: We need twenty .
DUFFY: We might be able to dig up a few more .
WILLIE: Yeah . Do you know how ?
DUFFY: No . Willie turns to Jack .
WILLIE: Oh , Jack . Come here . What have you got in your black book about that old friend of yours ?
JACK: Who do you mean ?
WILLIE: You know who I 'm talking about your old friend , the Judge .
JACK: If and when you need it .
WILLIE: If and when ? I need it right now . He 's got four senators wrapped up in his hip pocket . Come on , come on , oy what have you got ?
JACK: I 'm going to give him a break . If he can prove it is n't true , I wo n't spill it .
WILLIE: I ought to bust you , Jack .
JACK: I promised two people I 'd do it this way .
WILLIE: Who are they ?
JACK: Myself and someone else . It does n't matter who . I 'm going to give him a eak .
WILLIE: All right , give him a break . But if you got the facts , you got the facts . The truth is sufficient just like it says in the Bible .
JACK: That 's the way it 's going to be .
WILLIE: All right , boy I 'll trust you . Where are you going ?
JACK: I 'll be around . Willie turns to go into his private office .
SADIE: Who else do you think he promised , Willie ? Willie shrugs .
WILLIE: Are you sure ?
JACK: The chips were down , and Willie knew it . He was fighting for his life . He oared across the state making one speech after another . And all of them added up to the same thing `` It 's not me they 're after , it 's you ! '' Close-ups of Willie , speaking to the people .
WILLIE: Tell the boys to get the hicks out . Bring 'em in from the sticks , empty the pool halls . Turn 'em out . Turn the yokels out .
JACK: In case anyone hollered back , he organized spontaneous slugging . Willie pulled every trick he ever knew and added a few more .
WILLIE: Boy , I 'll live to be President
SENATOR: I 'll do whatever the Judge says .
JACK: And always the trail led to one place Burden 's Landing and the Judge . Exterior Ferry to Burden 's Landing , Night Willie 's car coming across on the ferry .
WILLIE: You sure you do n't want me to go in with you ?
JACK: I 'm sure .
WILLIE: Well , hurry it up , boy . We 've got places to go . Jack goes into the house alone .
JACK: Judge , I beg you , as a favor to yourself , to me call up , release your votes .
JUDGE: I made a mistake once , Jack when I resigned . It was too easy then , just resigning , pulling out . No , Jack , I 've made my choice . I have nothing more to lose .
JACK: Judge , you know what Stark is capable of . Think it over . I 'll leave now . I 'll come back tomorrow and we 'll talk about it again . You can give me your answer then .
WILLIE: I ca n't wait until tomorrow . I 'm a very impatient man .
JACK: I told you not to come in here .
WILLIE: Is it true , Judge , that you 're behind the impeachment proceedings ?
JUDGE: Yes , it 's true . Willie takes a seat in an easy chair .
WILLIE: I wanted to hear you say it with your own silver tongue .
JUDGE: Well , you 've heard it . If that 's all you came to hear you could have saved yourself a trip . Willie picks up a decanter off the table .
WILLIE: Mind if I pour myself a drink ? How about you , Judge , will you have one ? You better You 're going to need it .
JACK: You 'll get your answer tomorrow .
WILLIE: Are you kidding ? Did you show it to him , or did n't you ?
JUDGE: Show me what ?
WILLIE: That 's what I figured . Let 's get down to cases , Judge . Do you remembe a man with the name of Littlepaugh ? The Judge shakes his head . He does n't .
JUDGE: Of course . I was their counsel fo over ten years .
WILLIE: Remember how you got the job ?
JACK: How did you find out ?
WILLIE: Do you remember how you got the job ? The Judge examines the papers .
JUDGE: I swear I never even remembered his name . Is n't that remarkable , Jack ? I never even remembered his name . It 's all so long ago it 's hard for me to ealize it ever happened .
WILLIE: Yeah . But it did .
JUDGE: Yes , it did . But it 's difficult fo me to realize it .
JACK: For me too , Judge .
JUDGE: Thanks for that much .
WILLIE: Well , I guess you know what the next move is , do n't you ?
JUDGE: Yes , I do . Jack Burden . Willie Stark 's hatchet man .
JACK: I asked you how did you find out ?
JUDGE: This would never stand at law , not for a minute . It happened over twenty- five years ago , and you could neve get any testimony . Everybody is dead .
WILLIE: Everybody except you , Judge . You 're alive . And people think you 're a certain kind of man . And you just could n't bear for people to think otherwise .
JUDGE: Ever since then I I 've done my duty . I I 'm responsible for many good things . But I also did this .
WILLIE: Yes , yes , you did .
JACK: Judge , I beg of you , call and release your votes , for your sake .
JUDGE: You have tender sensibilities for a hatchet man . Good night , gentlemen .
WILLIE: How about my answer ?
JUDGE: You 'll have it in the morning .
WILLIE: I want it tonight .
JUDGE: In the morning . Good night , gentlemen .
JACK: How did you find out ?
WILLIE: We 've got a lot to do . It 's getting late , Jack . Let 's get back to town .
JACK: You know we 're through , do n't you ?
WILLIE: Aw , you do n't mean that , boy .
STANTON: What are you doing here ?
WILLIE: It 's all right , doc . Just here to discuss some politics with the Judge .
STANTON: Oh , I see . Well , good night .
WILLIE: Good night .
JACK: Did you give him
WILLIE: Wait a minute , Jack
JACK: Answer me . Did you give
STANTON: Are n't you going back with him ?
JACK: No .
STANTON: Why not ? You belong with him . Jack , how could you have done it ? When Anne brought me those papers she told me you promised not to tell Stark until
JACK: Yeah . I know . Well , I kept my promise .
STANTON: Anne ? Anne ?
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE: From all over the state they 're streaming in . From the hill country and farms , the lumber camps by oat , by train , by horse , and on foot . Willie Stark 's army .
JACK: Come in . The door 's open . Anne enters .
ANNE: Jack
JACK: What do you want ?
ANNE: I called you . All afternoon I 've een calling you .
JACK: I know . I was here .
ANNE: You 've got to tell Adam . You 've got to see him .
JACK: Tell him what ?
ANNE: He knows about me and
JACK: About you and Willie ?
ANNE: I tried to explain to him . I I tried to explain to him that it was n't the way he thought it was .
JACK: How was it , Anne ? You tell me .
ANNE: He hit me , Jack . My own brother he hit me .
JACK: Your brother is an old-fashioned man . He believes in his sister 's honor . Me , I 'm a modern man . The twentieth-century type . I run .
ANNE: I 'm frightened , Jack .
JACK: For who ? Your brother , or Willie ?
ANNE: We 're through .
JACK: Who 's through with who ?
ANNE: He called me this afternoon . He 's going back to Lucy . He said it was etter that way .
JACK: Better for who ? Him .
ANNE: Both of us .
JACK: Did he tell you that too when he asked you to betray the Judge ? At least I walked out on him .
ANNE: Oh Jack help me , please , please . Adam 's all I 've got left now . Oh , Jack , if you ever loved me
JACK: If I ever loved you . I 'll go find Adam . He takes up his coat .
COP: Where do you think you 're going ? Oh , I 'm sorry . I did n't recognize you .
JACK: Do you know who Dr. Stanton is ?
COP: Yes sir .
JACK: Did he try to come through here today ?
COP: Have n't seen him , sir .
JACK: Well , can you check the othe entrances ?
2ND COP: There 's no other entrances today . The other entrances are blocked off . Orders are to take no chances .
COP: If you care to come inside and wait , Mr . Burden , we can find you a seat .
JACK: No , thanks . I 'll wait out here . If Dr. Stanton shows up , let me know . Pass the word along to the boys , will you ?
COP: Yes sir .
LOUDSPEAKER: All right now . Everybody that means everybody let 's let Willie know we 're here ! All together WE
SPEAKER: We will first proceed to take the judgment of the senate on the question of the impeachment of the governor .
SENATOR: Mr. Speaker , this is a farce to ask us to vote in the face of the kind of intimidation and pressure that has been exerted here in the past few weeks . Even that crowd outside , yelling on cue , is part of that pressure .
CROWD NOISE: We want Willie . We want Willie . Willie gets up , and goes to the window . Exterior State Capitol , Day
ANNOUNCER: Attention , please . Attention , please . This is a special announcement from Willie Stark to you people out there . He does n't want any one of you to leave
WILLIE: They tried to ruin me . But they are uined . They tried to ruin me because they did not like what I have done . Do you like what I have done ? Loud applause , and cries of `` yes . ''
COP: Stand back , everybody . Stand back .
SUGAR BOY: D-does it hurt m-much , boss ? D-d- does it hurt much ?
JACK: Anne , Anne Where are you going ?
ANNE: I do n't know . Leave me alone .
JACK: To do what ?
ANNE: I do n't care .
JACK: No , that 's too easy .
ANNE: I do n't know , I do n't know , I do n't know .
JACK: I do .
ANNE: Leave me alone , please .
JACK: No , no more .
ANNE: He 's dead .
JACK: We 're alive .
ANNE: My brother 's dead .
JACK: We 've got to go on living .
ANNE: How ?
JACK: So that Adam 's death has meaning , so that it was n't wasted . Anne , ou life has to give his death meaning . Do n't you see that ? Look at those people
POLICEMAN: Mr . Burden the governor 's asking for you . You better hurry . He 's going fast .
JACK: Will you wait here ? No reply .
WILLIE: It could have been the whole world , Willie Stark . The whole world Willie Stark . Why did he do it to me Willie Stark ? Why ? His head droops to the side and he dies .
WOODWARD: No , no trouble , Harry , be right down . Son of a bitch .
ROSENFELD: Where 's that cheery face we 've come to know and love ?
WOODWARD: You call me in on my day off because some idiots have broken into local Democratic Headquarterstell me , Harry , why should I be smiling ?
ROSENFELD: As usual , that keen mind of yours has pegged the situation perfectly . Except it was n't local Democratic Headquarters , it was National Democratic Headquarters and these were n't just any idiots , these were special idiots , seeing as when they were arrested at 2 30 this morning , they were all wearing business suits and Playtex gloves and were carrying a walkie-talkie , forty rolls of film , cameras , lock picks , pen-sized tear gas guns , plus various bugging devices . Not to mention over two thousand dollars , mostly in sequenced hundred dollar bills .
WOODWARD: Preliminary hearing at Superio Courthouse ?
ROSENFELD: Two o'clock , work the phones 'til you go .
WOODWARD: ( to the COUNSEL 'S
CLERK: Could you give me the names of the lawyers for the men arrested in the Watergate .
WOODWARD: Mr. Caddy ? My name 's Bob Woodward , I 'm from the Post and I wanted to ask about how you happened to come on this case
CADDY: I 'm not here .
CADDY: Clearly , I am here , but only as an individual , I 'm not the attorney of ecord . Mr. Rafferty has that position . Whatever you want , you 'll have to get from him , I have nothing more to say . And as he gets up , walks off
WOODWARD: Mr. Rafferty was very helpful . Fou Cuban-Americans and this other man , James McCord .
CADDY: Look , I told you inside
WOODWARD: you have nothing more to say , I understand that . CADDY turns away ; WOODWARD goes right on .
CADDY: I assure you , there 's nothing mysterious involved .
WOODWARD: Probably you 're right , but a little while ago , I was talking to a couple of lawyers who 'd been assigned to epresent the burglars .
CADDY: So ?
WOODWARD: Well , they never would have been assigned if anyone had known the urglars had arranged for their own counsel . And that could only mean the burglars did n't arrange for thei own counselthey never even made a phone call . So if they did n't ask for you to be here , how did you know to come ?
CADDY: There is no reason to assume othe people were involved .
WOODWARD: Your clients were arrested with a walkie-talkie ; they did n't need that to talk among themselves . CADDY looks at WOODWARD , turns back .
CADDY: They are not my clients .
WOODWARD: You 're a lawyer and you 're here
CADDY: I met one of the defendants , Mr. Barker , at a social occasion once I have nothing more to say .
WOODWARD: A Miami social occasion ? Mr. Rafferty told me the Cubans were from Miami .
CADDY: Barker 's wife called me at three this morning ; her husband apparently had told her to call if he had n't called her by then .
WOODWARD: It was really nice of you to come , since you 'd only met him once .
CADDY: Are you implying you do n't believe me ?
WOODWARD: I have nothing more to say .
CADDY: You do n't mind getting on people 's nerves , do you ? WOODWARD considers this a moment . Then
WOODWARD: Nope . And on that word
JUDGE: Will you please state you professions .
BARKER: Anti-Communists .
JUDGE: Anti-Communists ? That , sir , is not your average occupation .
MCCORD: James McCord .
JUDGE: Will you step forward , sir .
MCCORD: Security consultant .
JUDGE: Where ?
MCCORD: Government . Recently retired .
JUDGE: Where in government ?
MCCORD: Central Intelligence Agency
JUDGE: Where ?
MCCORD: The C.I.A . And on these words ,
WOODWARD: Holy shit . Now from the courtroom
BACHINSKI: You said I could look at it
COP: I said look , not memorize
BACHINSKI: almost done , give it a rest , all ight
WOODWARD: Bachinski ? What ? hold it OK , go on , go on
ROSENFELD: go on , go on
WOODWARD: That 's everything Bachinski had , I think it 's worth following up .
ROSENFELD: Do n't know ; who the hell 's Howard Hunt ? It 's probably nothing but check it out . Just go easy , it could be crazy Cubans . HOWARD SIMONS sticks his head in the office .
SIMONS: Anything ?
ROSENFELD: Woodward 's onto a new wrinkle with the break-in thingabsolute page one stuff
SIMONS: in other words , you got nothing , you 're thumbsucking .
ROSENFELD: Could develop .
SIMONS: Let me see what you get , but do n't jumpThe New York Times thinks it 's crazy Cubans .
ROSENFELD: OK , get on this W.House guy and do a etter job then you did on McCord .
WOODWARD: I did all right on McCord .
ROSENFELD: Then how come the Associated Press were the ones found out that Mr. McCord is security coordinator fo the Committee to Re-elect the President , otherwise known as CREEP ?
WOODWARD: The head of security for the eelection of a Republican President got caught bugging the national offices of the Democrats ? What the hell does that mean ?
ROSENFELD: Mr. John Mitchell , the head of CREEP , says it means nothing . `` This man and the other people involved were not operating on eithe our behalf or with our consent . These is no place in our campaign or in the electoral process for this type of activity , and we will not forget it or condone it . ''
WOODWARD: You ca n't believe that .
ROSENFELD: As a rough rule of thumb , as far as I can throw Bronco Nagurski , that 's how much I trust John Mitchell Now
WOODWARD: Lotsa hints
ROSENFELD: I ca n't sell hints to Simons you called everyone you know ? Call someone you do n't know .
WOODWARD: Howard Hunt , please .
ROSENFELD: I would liken your query to being in Russia half a century ago and asking someone , `` I understand who Lenin is and Trotsky I got too , but who 's this yokel Stalin ? ''
WOODWARD: Who 's Colson , Harry ?
ROSENFELD: The most powerful man in America is President Nixon , probably you 've heard his name .
WOODWARD: Thanks , Harry . Know anything about Colson ?
ROSENFELD: Just that on his office wall there 's a cartoon with a caption reading , `` When you 've got them by the balls , their hearts and minds will follow . ''
WOODWARD: Hello , I 'm Bob Woodward of the Washing Post and Mullen and Company Public Relations ? Could you tell me when you expect Mr. Hunt ? He is ?
ROSENFELD: Whaddya got , whaddya got ?
WOODWARD: Hunt is Colson 's man that 's Charles Colson , Nixon 's special counsel they both went to Brown University Hunt worked for the C.I.A . till '70 , and this is on deep background , the FBI thinks he 's involved with the break-in .
SIMONS: What else have you got ?
WOODWARD: According to White House personnel , Hunt definitely works there as a consultant for Colson . But when I called the White House Press office , they said he had n't worked there fo three months . Then the P.R . guy said the weirdest thing to me . `` I am convinced that neither Mr. Colson nor anyone else at the White House had any knowledge of , o participation in , this deplorable incident at the Democratic National Committee . '' He looks up at them .
SIMONS: Is n't that what you 'd expect them to say ?
WOODWARD: Absolutely .
ROSENFELD: So ?
WOODWARD: I never asked them about Watergate . I only said what were Hunt 's duties at the White House . They volunteered that he was innocent when nobody asked was he guilty .
ROSENFELD: I think we got a White House consultant linked to the bugging .
SIMONS: Just be careful how you write it .
WOODWARD: Here 's the first take ROSENFELD nods , shows him out and
BERNSTEIN: I sure could n't hurt it , could I ?
WOODWARD: it was fine the way it was
BERNSTEIN: it was bullshit the way it was
WOODWARD: I have to stand here and listen to the staff correspondent from Virginia ?
BERNSTEIN: what have you been here , nine months ? I been in this business since I was sixteen
WOODWARD: and you 've had some fucking meteoric ise , that 's for sureby the time you turn forty you might be the head of the Montana bureau
BERNSTEIN: you only got the job because both you and Bradlee went to Yale
WOODWARD: Bradlee went to Harvard
BERNSTEIN: they 're all the same , all those Ivy League placesthey teach you about striped ties and suddenly you 're smart
WOODWARD: I 'm smart enough to know my story was solid
BERNSTEIN: mine 's better
WOODWARD: no way
BERNSTEIN: read 'em both and you 'll see And as WOODWARD glances at the two stories
WOODWARD: crap And he sinks down in a chair .
BERNSTEIN: Is mine better ? WOODWARD nods .
WOODWARD: What is it about my writing that 's so rotten ?
BERNSTEIN: Mainly it has to do with your choice of words .
WOODWARD: Fuck you , Carl . And as he rolls forward again , out of sight
BERNSTEIN: You heard ? They put us both on the break-in thing . Simons liked the way we worked together . Listen , I 'm sorry I said your story was bullshit .
WOODWARD: It 's OK ; I 'm sorry I called you a failure .
BERNSTEIN: Forget it , the main thing did you call me a failure ?
WOODWARD: I was sure trying .
BERNSTEIN: Let me lay a little theory on you
WOODWARD: I 'm not interested in theory . What do we know ? For example , Hunt 's disappeared .
BERNSTEIN: Well , Barker tried to get blueprints of the Miami Convention Center and the air-conditioning system .
WOODWARD: And McCord was carrying an application for college press credentials fo the Democratic convention . The Times has got to be full of it it ca n't be crazy Cubans .
BERNSTEIN: What , though ? It ca n't be the Republicanshe 'd never allow something as stupid as this , not when he 's gon na slaughte McGovern anyway .
WOODWARD: Right . Nixon did n't get where he got y being dumb listen , that was a Watergate question
NIXON: The White House has had no involvement whatever in this particular incident .
WOODWARD: Hey ?
BERNSTEIN: Hmm .
WOODWARD: What do you think he meant , this particular incident ? Were there others ? How would we find out ? You know anyone important ?
BERNSTEIN: I lived here all my life , I got a million contacts , but they 're all us boys and bellhops .
RINGLE: What do you need ?
BERNSTEIN: Someone inside the White House would e nice .
RINGLE: Call her . She worked for Colson , if that 's any help . As BERNSTEIN grabs for the phone
GIRL: Kenny 's crazy , I never worked fo Colson , I worked for an assistant . Colson was big on secrets anyway . Even if I had worked for him , I would n't have known anything .
BERNSTEIN: Nothing at all you can remember ?
SECRETARY: Sorry . Now if it was Hunt you were interested in
BERNSTEIN: Howard Hunt ?
SECRETARY: Sure . Him I liked , he was a very nice person . Secretive too , traveled all over , but a decent man .
BERNSTEIN: Any idea what he did ?
SECRETARY: Oh , the scuttlebutt for awhile was he was investigating Kennedy
BERNSTEIN: Teddy Kennedy ?
SECRETARY: Sure . I remember seeing a book about Chappaquiddick on his desk and he was always getting material out of the White House Library and the Library of Congress and And as she goes on , quickly
BERNSTEIN: White House Library , please .
WOODWARD: Hunt does n't seem like your ordinary consultant .
BERNSTEIN: Maybe a political operative of some sort
WOODWARD: a spy , you mean ?
BERNSTEIN: It makes sense ; Hunt worked for the C.I.A . and the White House was paranoid about Teddy Kennedy .
LIBRARIAN: You want all the material requested y the White House ?
WOODWARD: You think they are confidential ? I do n't know anything about how this town works , I have n't lived here a year yet .
BERNSTEIN: We need a sympathetic face . On the word `` face ''
YOUNG CLERK: You want every request since when ?
BERNSTEIN: When did Hunt start at the White House ?
WOODWARD: July of '71 .
BERNSTEIN: About the past year .
CLERK: I 'm not sure you want 'em , but I got 'em . Now
WOODWARD: You do a lot of things when you 're on a story . Can you believe we 're actually doing this ?
BERNSTEIN: That was fun . What now ?
WOODWARD: I met a Presidential aide once at a social occasion .
BERNSTEIN: And you have n't called him ? As the taxi pulls off
BRADLEE: You have n't got it . A librarian and a secretary say Hunt looked at a book . Not good enough .
WOODWARD: I was told by this guy at the White House that Hunt was investigating Teddy Kennedy .
BRADLEE: How senior ?
WOODWARD: You asking me to disclose my source ?
BRADLEE: Just tell me his title .
WOODWARD: I do n't know titles .
BRADLEE: Is he on the level of Assistant to the President or not ?
DEEP THROAT: I saw the flag signalwhat 's up ?
WOODWARD: Nothing , that 's the problemthe story 's gone underground .
DEEP THROAT: You thought I 'd help out on specifics ? I 'll confirm what you get , try to keep you on the right track , but that 's all . Are you guys really working ? How much ?
WOODWARD: I do n't know maybe sixteen , eighteen hours a daywe 've got sources at Justice , the FBI , but it 's still drying up .
DEEP THROAT: Then there must be something , must n't there . Look , forget the myths the media 's created about the White House the truth is , these are not very ight guys , and things got out of hand .
WOODWARD: If you do n't like them , why wo n't you be more concrete with me ?
DEEP THROAT: Because the press stinks toohistory on the run , that 's all you 're interested in . You come up with anything ?
WOODWARD: John Mitchell resigned as head of CREEP to spend more time with his family . That does n't exactly have the ring of truth . Howard Hunt 's been foundthere was talk that his lawyer had 25 thousand in cash in a paper bag .
DEEP THROAT: Follow the money . Always follow the money .
WOODWARD: To where ?
DEEP THROAT: Go on .
WOODWARD: This man Gordon Liddyhe 's going to e tried along with Hunt and the five burglarswe know he knows a lot , we just do n't know what .
DEEP THROAT: You changed cabs ? You 're sure no one followed you ?
WOODWARD: I did everything you said , but it all seemed
DEEP THROAT: melodramatic ? Things are past thatremember , these are men with switchblade mentalities who run the world as if it were Dodge City .
WOODWARD: What 's the whole thing aboutdo you know ?
DEEP THROAT: What I know , you 'll have to find out on your own .
WOODWARD: Liddyyou think there 's a chance he 'll talk ?
DEEP THROAT: Talk ? Once , at a gathering , he put his hand over a candle . And he kept it there . He kept it right in the flame until his flesh seared . A woman who was watching asked , `` What 's the trick ? '' And he replied . `` The trick is not minding . ''
BERNSTEIN: What 's that ?
WOODWARD: The fucking New York Times .
BERNSTEIN: Goddamnit
WOODWARD: see ?
BERNSTEIN: I 'm trying
WOODWARD: fifteen phone calls
BERNSTEIN: -fifteen or more phone calls from the burglars in Miami to Gordon Liddy at CREEP
WOODWARD: Why did n't we get that ?
BERNSTEIN: Christ , and I even know somebody at the phone company
WOODWARD: you do ? with access to records ? As BERNSTEIN nods
BERNSTEIN: Why could n't you have just dialed me from the office , Irwin ?
IRWIN: 'Cause I 'm not calling out from the phone company anymore I think the place is bugged .
BERNSTEIN: So tell me about the Times article .
IRWIN: What do you want to know ?
BERNSTEIN: No games , Irwin ; give .
IRWIN: My big civil rights buddy boy , if John Mitchell was afte your phone records , would you be screaming . What 're you onto ?
BERNSTEIN: Something maybe big .
IRWIN: And that makes anything you do OK , is that it ?
BERNSTEIN: Just tell me about the goddamn article .
IRWIN: It was accurate , but I ca n't get a fuller listing for youall Barker 's phone records have been subpoenaed .
BERNSTEIN: Who by ?
IRWIN: A Miami D.A . The guy doing the investigating is named Martin Dardis .
BERNSTEIN: Irwin ? I really feel bad , doing something like thisyou know that , do n't you ?
IRWIN: Do n't give me any more of your liberal shit , OK , Carl ? He walks off , does n't look back . Now
BERNSTEIN: Harry , I just talked to a Miami investigator about Barker
ROSENFELD: so ?
BERNSTEIN: I think it might be helpful if you 'd send me to Miami .
ROSENFELD: I 'm the one sent you to Toronto , Bernstein
BERNSTEIN: that was awhile ago
ROSENFELD: `` I think it might be helpful if you 'd send me to Toronto . '' That was your spiel then . `` The Lifestyles of Deserters . '' I 'm still waiting for it . He enters his office , BERNSTEIN follows .
BERNSTEIN: Down to Miami and backhow much damage can I do ?
ROSENFELD: You 're the fella who forgot he rented a Hertz car , do I have to tell you they did n't forget to send us the ill ? And he looks unsympathetically at BERNSTEIN
SIMONS: Anyone but Bernstein .
ROSENFELD: Howard
SIMONS: remember Toronto , Harry .
ROSENFELD: That was awhile ago .
SIMONS: I do n't get ityou were the one who wanted to fire him .
ROSENFELD: I know , I did , but damnit Howard For the first time since I 've known him , I think he 's really humping
BERNSTEIN: Yeah ? Yes , this is Carl Bernstein . You 're repossessing my bicycle ? Listen , I 'm sure I paid this month 's installment , so why do n't you check your records before you go around hassling people ? Oh And as he stands there
HANNAH: Where are your bills , Carl ?
BERNSTEIN: Oh , they 're here . I 'm keeping much better records now , Hannah . See ?
HANNAH: Carl , it 's a jungle . I suggest you either pay this immediately or lay in a large supply of candles . You 'd give a stranger the shirt off your backexcept it would n't be paid for .
BERNSTEIN: Hey very tense .
HANNAH: Lot of pressure at the Star . Carl , when we got married , you were four thousand dollars in debt ; when we split , you were solvent . That may prove to be the outstanding single achievement of my life , and now look at this . How much did the damn bike cost ?
BERNSTEIN: Five hundred ; six maybe .
HANNAH: You 're two months behindyou got enough to cover ?
BERNSTEIN: I think .
HANNAH: Give me your checkbook then .
BERNSTEIN: It 's right under that pile .
HANNAH: I thought you had to get to Miami .
BERNSTEIN: There 's always a later plane .
HANNAH: You 're a sex junkie , you know that , Carl ?
BERNSTEIN: Nobody 's perfect . I 'm glad you 're out of it , Hannah you 're a terrific reporter and I turned you into a bookkeeper .
HANNAH: Aw baby , you can get it up I just wonder if you 'll ever be able to get it together . And quickly from that
SECRETARY: I 'm so glad .
BERNSTEIN: I 'd really like to see Mr. Dardis .
SECRETARY: And you will . But not now .
BERNSTEIN: I called him from Washington . He 's the one who asked me to be here at eleven in the morning .
SECRETARY: I told you , he had to go out on a case .
UNIFORMED COP: Is it OK to go on back ? She nods .
BERNSTEIN: Could you reach Mr. Dardis by ca adio ?
SECRETARY: He is not in the car . Sorry .
SECOND COP: Hey , babe . He enters the same office the first COP did .
BERNSTEIN: Mr. Dardis does call in every so often ?
SECRETARY: Well of course .
BERNSTEIN: Good . Just tell him I was here , that I 'm sorry I missed him He walks out the double doors .
SECRETARY: Mr. Dardis ' office .
BERNSTEIN: This is Mr. Tomlinson in the clerk 's office . Could you come across the hall for a moment ? We 've got some documents your boss probably should see . He hangs up .
DARDIS: Listen , I 've got a dinnerca n't we do this tomorrow ?
BERNSTEIN: I 'm on deadline .
DARDIS: You want Barker 's phone stuff or his money stuff ?
BERNSTEIN: Whatever .
DARDIS: I 'll never get out of here in time .
BERNSTEIN: The telephone calls we know about that .
DARDIS: The rest is Barker 's bank records . It 's mostly the eighty-nine thousand in Mexican cashier 's checks
BERNSTEIN: yeah , that was in The Times this morning .
DARDIS' VOICE: That the twenty-five grand one ? Do n't know
DARDIS: I never could figure just who this Dahlberg was . Think it might be anything ?
BERNSTEIN: This ? Naw And from here quickly
RESEARCHER: Were you after the Dahlberg articles from the files ? There are n't any , sorry . And now she drops a piece of paper , a photo
WOODWARD: Whazzis ?
RESEARCHER: Our Dahlberg file . As she leaves
ROSENFELD: Woodward 's talking to him know .
WOODWARD: this should take only a minute , Mr. Dahlberg , but we 're doing a follow- up on the break-in and I was kind of curious about your check .
ROSENFELD: CREEP financed the Watergate break- in , Jesus Christ . He starts off .
WOODWARD: One sec '
SIMONS: OK , last go-round . Foreign , anything else ?
NATIONAL EDITOR: I 'll stand with the Eagleton follow- ups and McGovern not being able to get a replacementthat 's your page one stuff right there , Howard
SIMONS: Metropolitan ?
ROSENFELD: you are ignoring the importance of the Dahlberg repercussions
NATIONAL EDITOR: nobody gives a shit about the Dahlberg repercussions
ROSENFELD: quit equivocating , say what you mean our story got Government Accounting to start an audit on CREEP 's finances
BRADLEE: and we printed that , did n't we , Harry ? And when the frigging audit 's done , we 'll print that too
NATIONAL EDITOR: let me tell what happened when I was having lunch today at the Sans Souci
ROSENFELD: correctionwhen you were drinking your lunch at the bar of the Sans Souci
NATIONAL EDITOR: this White House guy , a good one , a pro , came up and asked what is this Watergate compulsion with you guys and I said , well , we think it 's important and he said , if it 's so goddamn important , who the hell are Woodward and Bernstein ?
ROSENFELD: Ask him what he 's really sayinghe means take the story away from Woodstein and give it to his people at the National Desk
NATIONAL EDITOR: well , I 've got some pretty experienced fellas sitting around , would n't you say so ?
ROSENFELD: absolutelyand that 's all they do , sit sit sitevery once in a while , they call up a Senator , some eporting
NATIONAL EDITOR: well , what if your boys get it wrong
BRADLEE: Then it 's our asses , is n't it ?
SIMONS: And we 'll all have to go to work fo a living .
FOREIGN EDITOR: I do n't think either Metropolitan o National should cover the story . I do n't think we should cover the story , period .
BRADLEE: Go on .
FOREIGN EDITOR: It 's not that we 're using unnamed sources that bothers me , or that everything we print the White House denies , or that almost no other papers are reprinting our stuff .
SIMONS: What then ?
FOREIGN EDITOR: I do n't believe the goddamn story , Howard , it does n't make sense .
BRADLEE: It will , it just has n't bottomed out yet , give it time .
FOREIGN EDITOR: Ben , Jesus , there are over two thousand reporters in this town , are there five on Watergate ? Where did we suddenly get all this wisdom ?
BRADLEE: You saying the Democrats bugged themselves ?
FOREIGN EDITOR: The FBI thinks it 's possiblethe Democrats need a campaign issue , corruption 's always a good one . Get off the story , Benor put some people on McGovern 's finances ; fai is fair , even in our business .
UNION GUY: What'd'ya think ?
BERNSTEIN: This is practically a high school eunion for us , JaneI would have sprung for a classier place .
JANE: Anyplace really public , they 'd know about itthey know everything at the Committee , Carl
BERNSTEIN: you do n't really think you 're being followed ?
JANE: This girlfriend of mine at the Committee , the other day she went ack to the D.A . to tell the things the FBI did n't ask her . That night , her boss , he knew what she 'd done . They control everything ; that 's how they know it all .
BERNSTEIN: FBI too ?
JANE: You do n't believe me ? Well , I was working the weekend of the break-in and my God , all the executives were unning around like crazyyou had to practically wait in line to use the shredding machineand when the FBI came to investigate , they neve even asked me about it .
BERNSTEIN: If you do n't like it down there , why do n't you quit ?
JANE: I do n't know what they 'd do to me .
BERNSTEIN: Hey , easy
JANE: We 're a long way from high school , Carl and I 'm scared . HOLD on her frightened face a moment . Then
CLERK: We have no one by the name of Mitchell egistered .
WOODWARD: My mistake , sorry . And as he goes
FIRST MAID: We 'll be back after lunch .
BLACK MAN: We 'll be here .
SECOND MAID: I think they went out .
WOODWARD: I do n't mind waiting .
BERNSTEIN: See her ? Get anything ?
WOODWARD: For the paper , no ; for us , plenty . I waited a long time and finally this big guyI guess a bodyguard he left and I knocked and she emembered me , we talked awhile .
BERNSTEIN: And ? And ?
WOODWARD: she was panicked , Carlevery time I mentioned Watergate , you could tell .
BERNSTEIN: Were you eyebrow reading ?
WOODWARD: It was there . I just do n't get it ; a CREEP secretary being scared , that 's one thing . But what does the wife of one of the most powerful men in America have to be afraid of ?
BERNSTEIN: Left up ahead . WOODWARD nods .
WOODWARD: Who 's first ?
BERNSTEIN: Alphabetically , on the CREEP phone list , Miss Helen Abbott of South George Street . As WOODWARD turns left .
WOODWARD: You 're not a kid anymore .
BERNSTEIN: My first day as a copy boy I was sixteen and wearing my only grown-up suitit was cream colored . At 2 30 the head copy boy comes running up to me and says , `` My God , have n't you washed the carbon paper yet ? If it 's not washed by three , it 'll never by dry for tomorrow . '' And I said , `` Am I supposed to do that ? '' and he said , `` Absolutely , it 's crucial . '' So I run around and grab all the carbon paper from all the desks and take it to the men 's oom . I 'm standing there washing it and it 's splashing all over me and the editor comes in to take a leak , and he says , `` What the fuck do you think you 're doing ? '' And I said , `` It 's 2 30 . I 'm washing the carbon paper . '' ( BERNSTEIN looks at
WOODWARD: Just wanted you to know I 've done dumber things than get us lost , that 's all .
MISS ABBOTT: Yes ?
WOODWARD: We 're from the Washington Post and we wanted to ask you some questions about the Committee .
MISS ABBOTT: I 'm sorry
OLD MAN: goyou 've got to go before they see youplease And as he almost starts to beg
OLD WOMAN: no good
BERNSTEIN: You had the Mighty Mo and the fries without gravy , right ?
WOODWARD: This is terrific work , if you like ejection .
BERNSTEIN: I never scared anyone before .
WOODWARD: It 's not us , they were scared before we got there . What do we know ?
BERNSTEIN: Facts or theory ?
WOODWARD: Anything you 've got .
BERNSTEIN: We know there 's got to be something or they would n't be so panicked .
WOODWARD: And that something 's got to be more than just Hunt , Liddy , and the five urglarsthose indictments are gon na e bullshit when they come down . What else do we know ?
BERNSTEIN: I just wish we knew when someone would talk to us , that 's all . The continue to eat , bleary and numb , as we
WOODWARD: A friend at the Committee told us to contact you
WOMAN: who was it ?
BERNSTEIN: We never reveal our sources , which is why you can talk to us .
WOODWARD: It 's safe , try it , you 'll see .
BERNSTEIN: We understand your problem
WOODWARD: you believe in the President , you would n't ever want to do anything disloyal .
BERNSTEIN: We appreciate your positionreally .
WOMAN: You peopleyou think that you can come into someone 's life , squeeze what you want , then get out . You do n't appreciate a goddamn thing , mister . And you do n't understand nothing . But the Committee 's briefed us on youso get the hell out of here do you like scaring the life out of decent people ? 'cause if you do n't , in the name of Godstop it ! And she slams the door
WOODWARD: At Yale once , they held an auction . There was this woman and her name was Lulu Landis . Her postcards came up for sale . She had 1400 postcards written to her and I 'd never heard of her before but I knew I had to have those cards , I had to know why anyone would get so many messages . I paid sixty-five dollars for them I got all crazy trying to work it out and first it was just a maze but then I found that her husband killed himself in Dayton , and once I had that , it all began to open , an evangelist had come to Dayton and his horses hit Lulu Landis at the corner of 13th and Vermillion and she was paralyzed . Permanently , and her favorite thing til then had been traveling and all her friends , whenever they went anyplace , they wrote her . Those cards , they were her eyes They continue to walk ; slowly .
BERNSTEIN: I hate both parties .
WOODWARD: And I 'm a Republican . The middle-aged man looks at him .
BERNSTEIN: ( surprised , turns to
WOODWARD: Republican ?
BERNSTEIN: Who 'd you vote for ?
WOODWARD: When ?
BERNSTEIN: '68 .
WOODWARD: Nixon . BERNSTEIN stares at him in silence as we
YOUNGER MAN: oh , do n't worry , Gordon Liddy will e happy to take the fall for everyone ecause , well , it 's not that Gordon 's crazy , he 's weird . I 'll give you some Committee people who know about himonly do n't tell it was me
YOUNGER WOMAN: of course we were briefed on what to sayand never to voluntee anything
OLD WOMAN: oh , we were never alone with the FBI , there was always someone from the Committee right there Smiles , talks on as we
NIXON: No one in this administration , presently employed , was involved in this very bizarre incident
WOODWARD: Did he just say what I think he said ?
BERNSTEIN: You voted for him .
WOMAN: oh , you do n't want me , you want my sister . For you . And we
BOOKKEEPER'S SISTER: This here is Carl Bernstein
BOOKKEEPER: omigod , you 're from that place , you 've got to go .
BERNSTEIN: Could I bum one of your cigarettes ? As the sister starts for the pack
BOOKKEEPER: You 've really got to go .
BERNSTEIN: Just let me get a match .
BOOKKEEPER: All those articles you people write where do you find that stuff ?
BERNSTEIN: We do n't tell anyone that . Which is why you can talk to us . And if we ca n't verify what you say someplace else , we do n't print it . That 's another reason you can relax .
BOOKKEEPER: I 'm relaxedlight your cigarette . BERNSTEIN lights the cigarette .
BERNSTEIN: You were Hugh Sloan 's bookkeepe when he worked for Maurice Stans at Finance , and we were sort of wondering , did you go work for Stans immediately after Sloan quit or was there a time lapse ?
BOOKKEEPER: I never worked for Sloan or Stans .
BOOKKEEPER'S SISTER: ( out of the blue ; to
BERNSTEIN: Would you like some coffee o anything ? As the BOOKKEEPER winces .
BOOKKEEPER: Can I sit down for a minute ? He is by a couch .
BERNSTEIN: right , right , I 've got to go . Why did you lie just then ?
BOOKKEEPER: No never in so many words
BERNSTEIN: It 's obvious you want to talk to someonewell , I 'm someone . He takes out his notebook .
BOOKKEEPER'S SISTER: How do you like it ?
BERNSTEIN: Everything , please .
BOOKKEEPER'S SISTER: I wo n't be a minute .
BERNSTEIN: The General Accounting report said there was a 350 thousand cash slush fund in Stans ' safe . Did you know about that from the beginning ?
BOOKKEEPER: There are too many people watching methey know I know a lot
BERNSTEIN: it was all in hundreds , was n't it ?
BOOKKEEPER: A lot of it was . I just thought it was sort of an all-purpose political fundyou know , for taking fat cats to dinner , things like that .
BERNSTEIN: Could buy a lot of steaks , 350,000 dollars .
BOOKKEEPER: I ca n't be positive that it was used for the break-in but people sure are worried .
BERNSTEIN: Which people ?
BOOKKEEPER: The ones who could disburse the money .
BERNSTEIN: Who were they ?
BOOKKEEPER: There were a group of themI think five , I do n't know their names .
BERNSTEIN: Sloan knew which five , did n't he ?
BOOKKEEPER'S SISTER: Here we are .
BOOKKEEPER: I do n't want to say anymore .
BERNSTEIN: It 's awfully hot and you have n't finished telling me about the money
BOOKKEEPER: omigod , there was so much of it , six million came in one two-day period six million cash , we could n't find enough places to put it . I thought it was all legal , I guess I did , til after the break-in , when I remembered Gordon got so much of it .
BERNSTEIN: Gordon Liddy , you mean ?
BOOKKEEPER: It was all so crazythe day afte the break-in he gave us a speech , ouncing up and down on his heels in that loony way of hisGordon told us not to let Jim McCord ruin everythingdo n't let one bad apple spoil the barrel , he said . You just know that when Gordon Liddy 's calling someone a bad apple , something 's wrong somewhere . It 's all so rotten and getting worse and all I care about is Hugh Sloan . His wife was going to leave him if he did n't stand up and do what was right . And he quit . He quit because he saw it and did n't want any part of it .
BERNSTEIN: Think Sloan 's being set up as a fall guy for John Mitchell ? Sometimes it looks that way . There is a pause . Then
BOOKKEEPER: If you guys if you guys could just get John Mitchell that would e beautiful
BERNSTEIN: I could n't believe what she told me . Eight cups of coffee worth .
WOODWARD: Go on , go on
BERNSTEIN: we 've got to find out who the five guys arethe five with access to the slush fundthey were aware of the break-in .
WOODWARD: Then tomorrow 's grand jury indictments will just be bullshit .
BERNSTEIN: It goes very highwe 've got to find out where
WOODWARD: we will
BERNSTEIN: she was really paranoid , the ookkeeper .
WOODWARD: That happens to people . OK , go on .
BERNSTEIN: How do you want to handle Sloan ?
WOODWARD: You mean , who 's going to play the mean M.P . and who 's going to be the nice one ? Whichever .
BERNSTEIN: He 's another Ivy Leaguer so he 'll probably expect you to be understandingmight surprise him if you 're not .
WOODWARD: You want me to be the bastard .
BERNSTEIN: And I 'll just shitkick in my usual way . As they drive on
WOODWARD: To see Mr. Sloan .
MRS. SLOAN: He 's out . You 're those two from the Post , are n't you . I 'll tell him .
BERNSTEIN: This must be a difficult time fo the both of you .
MRS. SLOAN: This is an honest house .
WOODWARD: That 's why we wanted to see you husband . She studies them still ; more silence .
MRS. SLOAN: That decision is up to him .
BERNSTEIN: Maybe you could put in a good word .
WOODWARD: We 've got another appointment tonight in this areawe 'll just stop back later , all right ?
MRS. SLOAN: It 's a free country in theory .
WOODWARD: Think Sloan 's back ? What 's wrong ?
BERNSTEIN: NothingI just found out that Je Magruder from CREEP is a bigger bike freak than I am . I never like it when the other guy 's human
WOODWARD: Mr. Sloan ?
SLOAN: My wife told me to expect you . As you know , I have n't talked to the press .
BERNSTEIN: We were hoping that maybe now you could . We know why you left the Committee . We know you 're not guilty of anything . But we know you know who is It has begun to rain even harder .
SLOAN: look , come in . We 'll have to be quietmy wife 's asleep .
SLOAN: I 'd like to talk to you , I really would , but my lawyers say I should n't until after the Watergate trial .
WOODWARD: You handed out the money . Maybe there 's a legitimate explanation fo the way it was done
BERNSTEIN: then again , maybe things are even worse than we 've written
SLOAN: they 're worse . That 's why I quit .
BERNSTEIN: Do you think the truth will come out at the trial ?
SLOAN: That 's another of the things I 'm not so sure of .
BERNSTEIN: Because people at the Committee were told to lie to the prosecutors ?
SLOAN: We were never told flat out `` Do n't talk . '' But the message was clear .
BERNSTEIN: To cover up ?
SLOAN: Well , they sure did n't ask us to come forward and tell the truth .
WOODWARD: Does `` they '' mean the White House ?
SLOAN: As opposed to the Committee ? The Committee 's not an independent operation . Everything is cleared with the White House . I do n't think that the FBI or the prosecutors understand that .
WOODWARD: The report on the cash in Maurice Stans ' safe , the three hundred fifty thousand , that 's true ?
SLOAN: No . It was closer to seven hundred thousand .
WOODWARD: And as treasurer , you could release those funds ?
SLOAN: When so ordered .
WOODWARD: We 're not sure we 've got all the guys who could order you , but we know there were five .
BERNSTEIN: Mitchell , Stans , Magruder , they 're obvious SLOAN stirs his coffee .
WOODWARD: there had to be a White House overseer
BERNSTEIN: Colson .
SLOAN: Colson 's too smart to get directly involved with something like that .
WOODWARD: Haldeman . Right ?
SLOAN: I wo n't talk about the other two .
BERNSTEIN: But they both worked at the White House ?
SLOAN: I will not talk about the other two .
BERNSTEIN: KalmbachNixon 's personal lawyer . SLOAN is shocked at the mention of Kalmbach .
SLOAN: I ca n't say anything , I 'm sorry .
WOODWARD: One thing I 'm not completely clea onwhen you gave out the money to Liddy , how did that work ?
SLOAN: Badly . You do n't realize how close all this came to staying undiscoveredI gave Liddy the Dahlberg check and he gave it to Barker who took it to Miami and deposited it .
BERNSTEIN: Right .
SLOAN: Then Barker withdrew the 25 thousand in hundred dollar bills and gave it ack to Liddy who gave it back to me and I put it in the office safe which was crammed .
WOODWARD: Go on .
SLOAN: Well , when Liddy came and asked fo money for what turned out to be the eak-in funds , I went to the safe and gave himout of this whole fortuneI happened to give him the same hundreds he gave mebanks have to keep track of hundreds . If the money had been in fifties , or if I 'd grabbed a different stack , there probably would n't have been any Watergate story .
BERNSTEIN: Ordinarily , though , what was the procedure ?
SLOAN: RoutineI 'd just call John Mitchell over at the Justice Department and he 'd say `` go ahead , give out the money . ''
BERNSTEIN: What happens when the baby comes ?
SLOAN: We 're moving . I 've been looking for a job but it 's een hard . My name 's been in the papers too much . Sometimes I wonde if reporters understand how much pain they can inflict in just one sentence . I 'm not thinking of myself . But my wife , my parents , it 's been very rough on them .
BERNSTEIN: Lookfive men controlled that slush fund as CREEPthree of them we 've got , Mitchell , Stans , Magruder , and we 're pretty sure of Kalmbach .
WOODWARD: We 'd like to wait til we have all five before we print it .
BRADLEE: This is a daily paper , we 'll explain it tomorrow . You 're certain on Mitchell ?
WOODWARD: He approved the payments to Liddy while he was still Attorney General And all this now goes fast
ROSENFELD: you got more than one source ?
BERNSTEIN: yes
SIMONS: has any of them got an ax ?
ROSENFELD: political , personal , sexual , anything at all against Mitchell ?
WOODWARD: no
SIMONS: can we use their names ?
BERNSTEIN: no
BRADLEE: goddamnit , when 's somebody gon na go on the record on this story
ROSENFELD: who you got ?
WOODWARD: well , Sloan
BERNSTEIN: and we got a guy in Justice
BRADLEE: Deep Throat ?
WOODWARD: I saw him . He verifies .
BRADLEE: OK. You 're about to write a story that says that the former Attorney General the man who represented law in America is a crook . Just be right , huh ? As WOODWARD and BERNSTEIN leave the office
BERNSTEIN: John Mitchell , please . There is a BUZZING SOUND . Then
BRADLEE: He really made that remark about Mrs. Graham ? This is a family newspapercut the words `` her tit '' and run it . And now suddenly
SENATOR: Although I am a Republican , I would like to state in a pure bipartisan spirit that I feel only sadness that a once fine journal of record like the Post would have become merely the hysterical spokesman for the equally hysterical left wing of the Democratic Party
SIMONS: Same kind of crap
BRADLEE: all non-denial denialswe 're dirty guys and they doubt we were eve virgins but they do n't say the story is inaccurate .
BERNSTEIN: What 's a real denial ?
BRADLEE: If they ever start calling us goddamn liars it 's time to start circling the wagons .
WOODWARD: What do you think Mrs. Graham wants to see me for ?
SIMONS: Maybe to fire yousince you two started on this story , the Post stock has dropped , what , 50 percent ? And the word is some Nixon people are challenging her TV licenses . I 'm not saying she 's going on relief , ut I do n't think it 's unreasonable for her to want to meet you .
WOODWARD: You think she wants us to ease up on the story ?
SIMONS: I do n't know , but I do n't think that 's unreasonable either , do you ?
MRS. GRAHAM: I 'm so glad you could come , Mr .
WOODWARD: I 'm Woodward .
MRS. GRAHAM: You know , the paper was my father 's and my husband 's when they were alive and I was thinking back a year o two ago when Ben called me and said he wanted to publish the Pentagon Papers the next day . The Times had already been stopped from publishing anymore of them and all my legal counsel said `` do n't , do n't '' and I was frightened but I knew if I said no , I 'd lose the whole fifth floor . So we published , and that night , after I 'd told Ben to go ahead , I woke up in the darkness and I thought , `` Oh my Lord , what am I doing to this newspaper ? '' I woke up again last night with that same question . Are we right on this story ?
WOODWARD: I think so .
MRS. GRAHAM: Are you sure ?
WOODWARD: No .
MRS. GRAHAM: When will you be , do you think ? when are we going to know it all ?
WOODWARD: It may never come out .
MRS. GRAHAM: Never ? Please do n't tell me never . Ben says you 've found some wonderful sources .
WOODWARD: Some Justice Department lawyers and an FBI man , and some people from the Committee to Re-Elect , yes ma'am .
MRS. GRAHAM: And the underground garage one . Would I know him ?
WOODWARD: I could n't say .
MRS. GRAHAM: But it 's possible .
WOODWARD: It is .
MRS. GRAHAM: You 've never told anyone who he is ? But you 'd have to tell me if I asked you . Tell me .
WOODWARD: I would , if you really ever wanted to know .
MRS. GRAHAM: I really want to know .
WOODWARD: Nobody ever had too much .
MRS. GRAHAM: Do better . WOODWARD makes a nod . HOLD . Then
WOODWARD: What ?
BRADLEE: I thought you guys were supposed to e working on this story you think I like being aced out ?
BERNSTEIN: what ?
WOODWARD: The L.A. Times has a huge interview with Baldwin
BERNSTEIN: the lookout in the Motor Inn ? he say anything we do n't know ?
WOODWARD: just that a lot of reports were sent to CREEP , but he does n't name who , not here anyway
BRADLEE: it would have been nice to have had this , I sure would have liked to have had this
BERNSTEIN: there 's nothing new in it
BRADLEE: it makes the break-in realit 's a major goddamn story I 'm not going to kick ass ove this , but I 'd like you to know I hate getting beat , I just hate it do n't forget that I hate it
BERNSTEIN: Goddamnit
WOODWARD: shit
BERNSTEIN: we got ta top the Times
WOODWARD: I know , I know
BERNSTEIN: if we could name the guys got the eports , we 'd be ahead again
WOODWARD: shit , who do we know ?
BERNSTEIN: I know a lawyer at Justice
WOODWARD: has he got an ax ?
BERNSTEIN: almost every source we 've used has een Republican , this guy 's a card- carrying Democrat .
WOODWARD: Then he 's got an ax . Call him anyway .
BERNSTEIN: I want you to shut up and listen to me
WOODWARD: I have n't said anything
BERNSTEIN: for the first time I 'm beginning to feel like a fucking reporter Woodward , I got a tip . A guy called me up with a tip someone named Donald Segretti contacted a bunch of lawyers and asked them if they 'd like to go to work with him screwing up the Democrats , dirty tricks , shit like that . The FBI knows about Segretti Howard Hunt made a bunch of phone calls to himthey interrogated him , ut on account of Segretti was n't involved with the break-in , they did n't follow through . But Segretti did a lot of travelinghe called these lawyers from different places , and he told them the Republicans knew what he was doing .
WOODWARD: How high up , which Republicans ?
BERNSTEIN: That 's what we 've got to find out , ut Segretti went to Southern Cal . and so did a bunch of Nixon men
WOODWARD: Haldeman I know , who else ?
BERNSTEIN: Dwight Chapin , Nixon 's appointments chiefhe knew Segretti in school . Maybe I 'm crazy , but this is the first time any of this starts to make sense . What were the three theories ?
WOODWARD: The burglary was done by Cubans o Democrats or Republicans .
BERNSTEIN: Now the reason no one believed the Republicans is because there was n't any reason , they were so far ahead . But Segretti was talking to these other lawyers a year before the break- in .
WOODWARD: So maybe Watergate was n't really about Watergatemaybe that was just a piece
BERNSTEIN: because a year before , the Republicans were n't ahead , not in the polls , Muskie was running ahead of Nixon then . Before he self- destructed .
WOODWARD: If he self-destructed . Now , from the two of them
WOODWARD: Segretti criss-crossed the country over ten times in six monthsand never stayed anyplace over a night or two . Switch to another station , huh ? You 're driving me crazy with that .
BERNSTEIN: Segovia begged me for me secret but I said , `` No , Andres , you 'll have to try and make it without me . ''
WOODWARD: California , Illinois , Florida , New Hampshireall the major Democratic primary states . Why does everything you play sound the same ?
BERNSTEIN: 'cause I only know four chords
SEGRETTI: That 's right .
BERNSTEIN: I 'm Carl Bernstein . My paper sent me out to see if I could n't persuade you to go on the ecord .
SEGRETTI: You ca n't .
BERNSTEIN: Mind if I try ?
SEGRETTI: I 've got a lot of energy .
BERNSTEIN: Listenwe know you 're involved in thiswe 're going to get the story , why not help ?
SEGRETTI: They never told me anything except my own roleI had to find out the est in the papers .
BERNSTEIN: By `` they '' you mean ? He waits ; SEGRETTI just shakes his head .
SEGRETTI: I know where Dwight works .
BERNSTEIN: When did he hire you ?
SEGRETTI: I did n't do anything wrong .
BERNSTEIN: Tell that to Muskie .
SEGRETTI: Oh , maybe nickel and dime stuff .
BERNSTEIN: During the Florida primary , you wrote a letter on Muskie stationery saying Scoop Jackson had a bastard child . You wrote another that said Hubert Humphrey was out with call girls .
SEGRETTI: Sometimes it got up to a quarte maybe off the record .
BERNSTEIN: You wrote the Canuck letterthe one where you claimed Muskie slurred the Canadians .
SEGRETTI: I did n't .
BERNSTEIN: But you know who did .
SEGRETTI: When you guys print it in the paper , then I 'll know . I 'm a lawyer , and I 'll probably go to jail , and be disbarred , and what did I do that was so awful ? BERNSTEIN says nothing , waits .
BERNSTEIN: Chapin did contact you then ?
SEGRETTI: Sureoff the record .
BERNSTEIN: On the orders of Haldeman ?
SEGRETTI: I do n't know anything about Haldeman , except , Dwight 's frightened of him everybody 's frightened of himChrist , I wish I 'd never gotten messed around with thisall I wan na do is sit in the sun ; sit , swim , see some girls .
BERNSTEIN: It gets interesting if it was Haldeman , because our word is that when Chapin says something , he 's gotten the OK from Haldeman , and when Haldeman says something , he 's gotten the OK from the President .
SEGRETTI: Ca n't help you .
BERNSTEIN: At USC , you had a word the this screwing up the opposition you all did it at college and called it atfucking . Ever wonder if Nixon might turn out to be the biggest ratfucker of them all ?
SEGRETTI: What would you have done if you were just getting out of the Army , if you 'd been away from the real world for four years , if you were n't sure what kind of law you wanted to practice , and then one day you got a call from an old friend asking you to go to work for the President of the United States ? HOLD on the question , then
BERNSTEIN: What would you have done ?
WOODWARD: You asking would I have been one of the President 's men ? I would have been . As they continue on
DEEP THROAT: My turn to keep you waiting . What 's the topic for tonight ?
WOODWARD: Ratfucking .
DEEP THROAT: In my day , it was simply called the double cross . I believe the CIA refers to it as Mindfuck . In our context , it simply means infiltration of the Democrats .
WOODWARD: I know what it meansSegretti would n't go on the record , but if he would , we know he 'd implicate Chapin . And that would put us inside the White House .
DEEP THROAT: Yes , the little ratfuckers are now unning our government .
WOODWARD: Who ? be specific . How high up ?
DEEP THROAT: You 'll have to find that out , wo n't you .
WOODWARD: The slush fund at CREEP financed the atfucking , we 've almost got that nailed down , so
DEEP THROAT: Did you change cabs ? It did n't work , something moved there And as he points
WOODWARD: Who are you ?
DEEP THROAT: I hope you noticed how coolly I ehaved under the threat of discovery .
WOODWARD: Do Justice and the FBI know what we know , and why the hell have n't they done anything about it ?
DEEP THROAT: They know , but they focused on the urglaryif it did n't deal with the eak-in , they did n't pursue it .
WOODWARD: Why did n't they ? who told them not to ?
DEEP THROAT: Someone with authority I 'd imagine , would n't you ? Do n't you know what you 're onto ? Come on .
WOODWARD: Mitchell knew then .
DEEP THROAT: Of coursemy God , you think something this big just happens ? The break-in and the cover up , of course Mitchell knew , but no more than Ehrlichman .
WOODWARD: Haldeman too ?
DEEP THROAT: You get nothing from me about Haldeman ?
WOODWARD: Why did they do all this fo Chrissakes ? what were they after ?
DEEP THROAT: Total manipulation . I suppose you could say they wanted to subvert the Constitution , but they do n't think along philosophical lines .
WOODWARD: Talk about Segretti
DEEP THROAT: do n't concentrate on Segretti o you 'll miss the overall scheme too .
WOODWARD: There were more then .
DEEP THROAT: Follow every leadevery lead goes somewhere
WOODWARD: the Canuck letterwas that a White House operation
DEEP THROAT: do n't you miss the grand scheme too .
WOODWARD: How grand ?
DEEP THROAT: Nationwidemy God , they were frightened of Muskie and look who got destroyedthey wanted to run against McGovern , and look who they 're unning against . They bugged , they followed people , false press leaks , fake letters , they canceled Democratic campaign rallies , they investigated Democratic private lives , they planted spies , stole documents , on and on do n't tell me you think this was all the work of little Don Segretti .
WOODWARD: And Justice and FBI know all this ?
DEEP THROAT: Yes , yes , everything . There were over fifty people employed by the White House and CREEP to ratfuck some of what they did is beyond elief .
WOODWARD: Fifty ratfuckers directed by the White House to destroy the Democrats ?
BERGER: Do you guys know about the Canuck letter ?
BERNSTEIN: Um-hmm . Why ?
BERGER: I just wanted to be sure you knew who wrote it . As she speaks
BERNSTEIN: Tell him what you just told me .
BERGER: Just than Ken Clawsenhe used to be a reporter here before he went to work for NixonI had him over for a drink a few weeks ago and he told me he wrote the Canuck letter . You did want to know , did n't you ? And now from her
BERNSTEIN: You think we 're being set up ? Christ , Deep Throat tells you last night that the letter came from inside the White House and up traipses Marilyn naming names .
WOODWARD: It makes a crazy kind of sense emember that initiation rite they have at the White House ? Each new member of the President 's staff has to prove his guts by getting an enemy of Nixon .
BERNSTEIN: You think this was Clawsen 's initiation ?
WOODWARD: Could have won him a fraternity paddle with a White House seal . God knows it worked .
BERGER: I already told them .
BRADLEE: I got Clawsen on hold
WOODWARD: his dialing finger must be falling off
BRADLEE: what do you think ?
WOODWARD: he went to her apartment and he told her
BERNSTEIN: if he did it or just said he did it , God knows .
BRADLEE: I could care less about where it happened ; what happened is what counts . ( calling out to his
SECRETARY: Put him on . Ken , I 'm sorry , it was Goddamn Beirut and they were having a crisis , what 's up , kid ? Slow down , Ken , you sound frazzled . A wife and a family and a cat and a dog , right , Ken . Ken , I would never print that you were in Marilyn 's apartment at night unless , of course , you force me to .
BRADLEE: It 's like they taught us at Harvard few things are as gratifying to the soul as having another man 's nuts in a vise Now , as he goes back to talking
WESTERN SENATOR: although I am a Republican , I would like to state in a pure bipartisan spirit that I am happy that this latest onslaught against the intelligence of the American people will be wrapping fish tomorrow . I offer my condolences to the fish And now , the headline fades as we
ROSENFELD: Speak .
BERNSTEIN: We 've just been talking to Young
SIMONS: which Young ?
WOODWARD: Larry Young , a California lawyer
BERNSTEIN: he was going to go into law practice with Segretti .
ROSENFELD: And ?
WOODWARD: and he says Chapin hired Segretti
SIMONS: well and good , but when will he say it on the record .
WOODWARD: He just did .
BERNSTEIN: He 'll give us a sworn statement .
WOODWARD: We 're inside the White House now .
BRADLEE: Look , I wanted to talk because things are getting really hairy and there 's a couple of things we 've got to be careful of because A waiter is nearby .
MAN: You none of you know who I am , do you ? You screw me up good , you do n't even know what I look like .
BRADLEE: OK , you 've had your preamble ; who the hell are you ?
MAN: Glenn Sedamyou wrote about me last week , you said I was one of the guys at the Committee who was sent reports . You were wrong .
BERNSTEIN: Baldwin told the FBI it was you .
SEDAM: Baldwin told the FBI it was someone whose first name sounded like a last name . They showed him a list and he picked me but it was n't me , it was Gordon Liddy . My phone has n't stopped ringing , my wife 's hysterical , my kids think I 'm mixed up with the burglary , my friends do n't like me around all of a sudden .
BRADLEE: That did n't sound to me like a non- denial denial ; could you have been wrong ? You had a good source ? Did he have an ax ?
SLOAN: I really ca n't talk now
BERNSTEIN: this 'll only take one second
SLOAN: my wife just had the baby , my in- laws are arriving , I 'm trying to get the house in some kind of shape .
WOODWARD: A boy or a girl ?
SLOAN: A girl . Melissa .
WOODWARD: Where does this go ?
BERNSTEIN: Mitchell , Stans , Magruder , Kalmbach
WOODWARD: we 're working on the last guy now and we 're going all the waythat fifth man was Haldeman .
SLOAN: I 'm not your source on that
BERNSTEIN: it 's got ta be Haldemansomeone from the White House had to be involved
WOODWARD: and it was n't Ehrlichman or Colson or the President .
SLOAN: No , none of those .
BERNSTEIN: that leaves Haldeman , period .
SLOAN: I 'm not your source on that .
WOODWARD: look , when the Watergate grand jury questioned you , did you name names ?
SLOAN: Of courseeverything they asked
BERNSTEIN: if we wrote a story that said Haldeman controlled the fund ?
SLOAN: let me put it this way I 'd have no problem if you did .
WOODWARD: I think that 's him .
BERNSTEIN: Who ?
WOODWARD: Haldeman .
BERNSTEIN: Nah . Maybe .
WOODWARD: What if I went up and introduced myselfthink he 'd slug me ?
BERNSTEIN: Well , we are trying to ruin his life .
WOODWARD: It 's nothing personal , though .
BERNSTEIN: What 's the matter ?
WOODWARD: Same as Magruder , I do n't like it when they turn out to be human .
BERNSTEIN: I wish we were investigating Attila the Hun .
WOODWARD: Maybe we are
PUDGY MAN: Goddamnit , I 'm not gon na say it againyou get nothing about Haldeman outta me
WOODWARD: we do n't need it now , because tomorrow 's story is about the FBI
BERNSTEIN: about how all you supposed experts eally blew the whole investigation
FBI GUY: we did n't miss so much
WOODWARD: you never knew Haldeman had control of the slush fund
FBI GUY: it 's all in our files
BERNSTEIN: not about Haldeman
FBI GUY: yeah , Haldeman , John Haldeman .
BERNSTEIN: Jesus
WOODWARD: he said John Haldeman , not Bo Haldeman And as they take off after the agent
BRADLEE: I do n't know , I do n't know , it feels thin
SIMONS: Christ , I wish I knew if we should print this
ROSENFELD: listen , we did n't make them do these thingsonce they did , it 's our job to report it
SIMONS: go over your sources again
WOODWARD: Sloan told the Grand Juryhe answered everything they asked him that means there 's a record somewhere
BERNSTEIN: and the FBI confirmswhat more do you need ?
ROSENFELD: listen , I love this country , you think I want to bring it down ? I 'm not some goddamn zany , I was a hawk
SIMONS: Harry , were n't you just arguing the opposite way ?
ROSENFELD: maybe I 'm tense
BRADLEE: well shit , we oughtta be tense we 're about to accuse Mr. Haldeman who only happens to be the second most important man in America of conducting a criminal conspiracy from inside the White House it would be nice if we were right
SIMONS: you double-checked both sources ? They nod .
BRADLEE: Bernstein , are you sure on this story ?
BERNSTEIN: Absolutely
BRADLEE: what about you ?
WOODWARD: I 'm sure
BRADLEE: I 'm not sure , it still feels thin
SIMONS: get another source . Now quickly
BERNSTEIN: How many fucking sources they think we got ?
WOODWARD: Deep Throat wo n't confirmI neve thought he was scared of anyone , but he 's scared of Haldeman .
BERNSTEIN: I know a guy in the Justice Department who was around the Grand Jury .
WOODWARD: We got twenty minutes to deadline And as he speaks
BERNSTEIN: Will you confirm that Haldeman was mentioned by Sloan to the Grand Jury ?
BERNSTEIN: Yeah ! And on that shout
SCHORR: Mr. Sloan , would you care to comment on your testimony before the Grand Jury .
SLOAN: My lawyer says
SLOAN'S LAWYER: the answer is an unequivocal no . Mr. Sloan did not implicate Mr. Haldeman in that testimony at all .
FBI MAN: I 'll deny everythingeverything I never talked to you about Haldeman I never talked to you about anything I 'm not talking to you now
BERNSTEIN: what went wrong ?
WOODWARD: for Chrissakes just tell that
BERNSTEIN: Woodward ?
WOODWARD: Hmm ?
BERNSTEIN: What was the mistake ? Do you think it 's been rigged , all along the way , leading us on so they could slip it to us when it mattered ? They could n't have set us up better ; after all these months our credibility 's gone , you know what that means ?
WOODWARD: Only everything
SIMONS: More denunciations ?
ROSENFELD: One Senator just gave a speech slurring us 57 times in 20 minutes .
SIMONS: What 's this ?
BRADLEE: My non-denial denial .
ROSENFELD: We 're not printing a retraction ?
BRADLEE: Fuck it , let 's stand by the boys . And he stands , spins out of the room as we
WOODWARD: Hello ?
BERNSTEIN: You overslept ?
WOODWARD: Goddamnit !
DEEP THROAT: you were doing so well and then you got stupid , you went too fast Christ , what a royal screw up
WOODWARD: I know , I know , the pressure 's off the White House and it 's all back on the Post
DEEP THROAT: you 've done worse than let Haldeman slip away , you 've got people feeling sorry for himI did n't think that was possible . A conspiracy like this the rope has to tighten slowly around everyone 's neck . You build from the outer edges and you go step by step . If you shoot too high and miss , then everybody feels more secure . You 've put the investigation back months .
WOODWARD: We know thatand if we were wrong , we 're resigningwere we wrong ?
DEEP THROAT: You 'll have to find that out , wo n't you ?
WOODWARD: I 'm tired of your chickenshit games I do n't want hints , I want what you know !
DEEP THROAT: It was a Haldeman operationthe whole businesshe ran the money , ut he was insulated , you 'll have to find out how WOODWARD takes a breath , nods .
BRADLEE: You could n't have told me over the phone ?
WOODWARD: We ca n't trust the phones , not anymore . Deep Throat says so .
BRADLEE: We ca n't talk inside either ?
WOODWARD: Electronic surveillance .
BERNSTEIN: I finally got through to Sloanit was all a misunderstanding that we had he would have told the Grand Jury about Haldeman , he was ready to , only nobody on the Grand Jury asked him the goddamn question .
WOODWARD: So I guess you could say that we screwed up , but we were n't wrong .
BRADLEE: Anything else from Mr. Throat ?
WOODWARD: Mitchell started the cover-up early , everyone is involved in the cover- up , all the way to the top . The whole U.S. intelligence community is mixed in with the covert activities . The extent of it is incredible . And people 's lives are in danger , maybe including ours .
BRADLEE: He 's wrong on that last , we 're not in the least danger , because nobody gives a shitwhat was that Gallup Poll result ? Half the country 's neve even heard the word Watergate .
WESTERN SENATOR: It is only our pathetic Post that deliberately tries to infuse the Watergate caper with a seriousness far beyond those shenanigans that have been the stock trade of political pranksters ever since
CREEP: the fact remains that except fo Watergate , we ran one hell of a great campaign The CAMERA is almost at the pillar now .
UNTITLED: Cameron Crowe December , 1998
ELAINE: Excuse me , I 'm a teacher . There is no word in The English Language `` Xmas . ''
WILLIAM: - so Livia -
ELAINE: killed everyone off so her son Tiberius could inherit the throne . Just like Nixon .
ANITA'S VOICE: Hey Mom ! I already ate .
ELAINE: You sure ? I 'm making soy cutlets .
ANITA: I 'm fine . Already ate .
ELAINE: Wait . You 've been kissing .
ANITA: No I have n't .
ELAINE: Yes yes , you have
ANITA: No I have n't .
ELAINE: Yes you have . I can tell .
ANITA: You ca n't tell .
ELAINE: Not only can I tell , I know who it is . It 's Darryl .
ANITA: It 's unfair that we ca n't listen to our music !
ELAINE: Honey , it 's all about drugs and promiscuous sex .
ANITA: Simon and Garfunkel is poetry !
ELAINE: Yes it 's poetry . It 's the poetry of drugs and promiscuous sex . Look at the picture on the cover
ANITA: First it was butter , then sugar and white flour . Bacon . Eggs , bologna , rock and roll , motorcycles .
ELAINE: That was an experiment . But I understand -
ANITA: What else are you going to ban ?
ELAINE: Honey , you want to rebel against knowledge . ELAINE I 'm trying to give you the Cliff 's Notes on how to live in this world .
ANITA: We 're like nobody else I know . These are the words that sting Mom most .
ELAINE: I 'm a teacher . Why ca n't I teach my own kids ? i > Use me. < /i
ANITA: Darryl says you use knowledge to keep me down . He says I 'm a `` yes '' person and you 're trying to raise us in a `` no '' environment !
ELAINE: Well , clearly , `` no '' is a word Darryl does n't hear much .
WILLIAM: Mom
ELAINE: Everything I say is wrong .
ANITA: I ca n't live here ! I hate you ! Even William hates you ! < /i
WILLIAM: I do n't hate her .
ANITA: You do n't even know the truth ! William looks vaguely confused .
ELAINE: Sweetheart , do n't be a drama queen .
ANITA: Feck you ! All of you !
ELAINE: Hey !
WILLIAM: I think she said `` feck . `` < /i
ELAINE: i > What 's the difference ? < /i
WILLIAM: Well . The letter `` u ''
VOICE: Are you really in our grade ?
WILLIAM: Yeah .
TOBIN: Hey guys ! Check it out ! William does n't have any pubes !
WILLIAM: I had 'em . I shaved 'em off. < /i
ELAINE: Put on your seatbelt . I do n't want you flying through the windshield .
WILLIAM: We got our annuals today
ELAINE: `` Received '' your annual .
WILLIAM: I look so much younger than everyone else .
ELAINE: Enjoy it while you can .
ANITA: Mom . It 's time. < /i
ELAINE: Can this wait until we get home ?
ANITA: Mom , pull over . Tell him the truth . i > Tell him how old he is. < /i
ELAINE: He knows how old he is .
ANITA: The other kids make fun of him because of How young he looks . Nobody includes < /i him . They call him `` The Narc '' behind his back
WILLIAM: They do ?
ELAINE: What 's a `` Narc ? ''
ANITA: i > A Narcotics Officer ! < /i
ELAINE: Well what 's wrong with that ? < /i
WILLIAM: Come on you guys . It 's no big deal . I 'm 12 . It 's okay . She skipped me a grade , it 's okay . Big deal . I 'm a year younger . They 're 13 , I 'm 12 Are n't I ? Their silence is eloquent .
ELAINE: I also put you in first grade when you were five and never told you .
WILLIAM: So I 'm how old ?
ANITA: You lied to him ! You make such a big deal about the truth and you lied !
ELAINE: He never asked .
ANITA: What like he 's going to ask if he 's as old as he thinks he is ? Do n't you ealize , this is going to scar him i > forever ? < /i
ELAINE: Honey sweetheart do n't be Cleopatra . We have to be his mothe i > and his Dad .
ANITA: You put too much pressure on him !
WILLIAM: How old
ANITA: And when he rebels in some strange and odd way , do n't blame me .
WILLIAM: am I ?
ELAINE: I skipped you an extra grade . You 're eleven .
WILLIAM: i > ELEVEN ? < /i
ELAINE: So you skipped fifth grade . There 's too much padding In the grades . I taught elementary school . 5th grade - unnecessary . Nothing happens in the 5th grade . All Teachers know it , no one talks about it .
WILLIAM: E - leven. < /i
ELAINE: And you skipped kindergarten because I taught it to you when you were four .
WILLIAM: This explains so much
ANITA: You 've robbed him of an adolescence !
ELAINE: Adolescence is a marketing tool .
ANITA: He 's got no `` crowd '' no friends
WILLIAM: Okay !
ANITA: Honey , I know you were expecting puberty . You 're just going to have to shine it on for a while .
ELAINE: Who needs a `` crowd ? '' You 're unique . You 're two years ahead of everybody . Take those extra years and do what you want . Go to Europe for a year ! Take a look around , see what you like ! Follow your dream !
ANITA: What about me ?
ELAINE: You 're rebellious and ungrateful of my love .
ANITA: Well , somebody 's got ta be normal around here !
WILLIAM: i > Eleven. < /i
ANITA: I want to play you a song that explains why I 'm leaving , and try to listen .
ELAINE: We ca n't talk ? We have to listen to ock music ?
WILLIAM: Take good care of her in San Francisco , man .
ELAINE: How can she leave such a loving family ?
ANITA: One day you 'll be cool .
ELAINE: She 'll be back .
ANITA: YEAHHHHH-HOOOOOOOO .
ELAINE: Maybe not soon
LESTER BANGS: What is this hippie station ? ! Where 's Iggy Pop ? Do n't you have a copy of i > Raw Power ? ! < /i
BANGS: Found it ! !
WILLIAM: I 've been doing some stuff for a local underground paper , too .
BANGS: What are you like the star of you school ?
WILLIAM: They hate me .
BANGS: You 'll meet them all again on thei long journey to the middle . The kid nods , they walk . BANGS Well , your writing is damn good . It 's just a shame you missed out on rock and roll .
WILLIAM: I did ?
BANGS: Oh yeah . It 's over .
WILLIAM: Over ?
BANGS: Over . You got here just in time fo the death rattle , the last gasp , the last grope. < /i
WILLIAM: Well . At least I 'm here for that .
BANGS: What do you type on ?
WILLIAM: Smith-Corona Galaxis Deluxe .
BANGS: You like the new Lou Reed ?
WILLIAM: The early stuff . The new stuff , he 's trying to be Bowie , he should be himself . I 'm not a big Lou man .
BANGS: Yeah , but if Bowie 's doing Lou , and Lou 's Doing Bowie , Lou 's still doing Lou .
WILLIAM: i > If you like Lou .
BANGS: Take drugs ?
WILLIAM: No .
BANGS: Smart kid . I used to do speed and sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing , like 25 pages of dribble about , you know , the Guess Who , or Coltrane , just to write , you know , with the music blasting
WILLIAM: Me too . The writing part
BANGS: Well , alright . It 's been nice to meet you . I 'll see you around . Keep sending me your stuff .
WILLIAM: Okay . See you .
BANGS: I ca n't stand here all day talking to my many fans .
WILLIAM: Industry of cool
BANGS: And that 's what they want ! And it 's happening right now . I 'm telling you , you 're coming along at a very dangerous time for rock and roll . The war is over . They won . 99 % of what passes for rock now SILENCE is much more compelling . It 's over . I think you should turn around and go back and e a lawyer or something but I can see from your face that you wo n't . I can pay you thirty-five bucks . Gim me a thousand words on Black Sabbath .
WILLIAM: An assignment .
LESTER: Yeah . And you should build you eputation on being honest and i > unmerciful. < /i
WILLIAM: Honest unmerciful < /i
BANGS: And if you get into a jam call me . I stay up late .
ELAINE: Look at this . An entire generation of Cinderellas and there 's no slippe coming. < /i
WILLIAM: You can drop me off here .
ELAINE: Black . Sabbath . Just remember - you wanted to be Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird. < /i
WILLIAM: All I have to do is listen . That 's what Lester Bangs said .
ELAINE: I 'll be waiting right here at eleven ' o clock sharp . If you get lost , use the family whistle .
WILLIAM: Hi . I 'm William Miller and I 'm here from Creem Magazine to interview the and Black Sabbath .
SCOTTY: Not on the list .
WILLIAM: Sir , I 'm a journalist , and here 's a copy of the magazine . The magazine hangs in mid-air .
SCOTTY: You 're not on the list . Go to the top of the ramp with the girls !
WILLIAM: i > What-happens-after-I-go-to-the-top-of- the-ramp with-the-gi - < /i Slam . Lock .
ESTRELLA: Who are you with ?
WILLIAM: Me ? I 'm with myself .
WILLIAM: I 'm here to interview Black Sabbath . I 'm a journalist . I 'm not a you know
PENNY LANE: you 're not a what ? < /i
WILLIAM: Oh I 'm just not a you know .
PENNY LANE: Not a `` what '' ?
WILLIAM: You know . A `` groupie . ''
ESTRELLA: Ohhh !
WILLIAM: Sorry , I -
PENNY LANE: We . Are not . `` Groupies . ''
ESTRELLA: This is Penny Lane , man . Show some i > respect. < /i
WILLIAM: sorry .
PENNY LANE: `` Groupies '' sleep with rock stars because they want to be near someone famous . We are here because of the music . We are Band Aids. < /i
ESTRELLA: She used to run a school for Band Aids .
PENNY LANE: We do n't have intercourse with these
ESTRELLA: Marc Bolan broke her heart , man . It 's famous .
PENNY LANE: It 's a long story . I 'm retired now . I 'm just visiting friends .
WILLIAM: Right . Right .
ESTRELLA: `` just blow-jobs , and that 's it . ''
WILLIAM: Okay . Well , see , now I get the difference .
POLEXIA: It 's all happening . It 's all happening .
ESTRELLA: Polexia ! ! Did you tell Sabbath we were going to be here ?
POLEXIA: I talked to Dick with Stillwater , I talked with Sabbath . They 're all dying to see us . It 's all happening .
PENNY LANE: This is our journalist friend . Journalist Friend , meet Estrella Starr , and Polexia Aphrodisia . And you are
WILLIAM: William . Silent beat . His name lands like a thud .
POLEXIA: Here comes Sabbath !
ESTRELLA: Ozzy ! ! ! Tony ! ! ! It 's us ! !
POLEXIA: Okay . I was with Ian Hunter all night < /i at Rodney 's Last night . Wan na see his spoo ? I saved it in a baggie .
ESTRELLA: I 'm really happy he 's doing so well .
PENNY: Yeah . I know he 's such a talented guy . I mean , look at him . Who deserves it more ?
POLEXIA: Nobody he 's so sweet .
ESTRELLA: Do n't you just root for him , you know . To go that little distance between good and great ?
PENNY: Wait . That 's not his . I would know his .
SAPPHIRE: Does anybody remember laugh-tah ? Come and GET 'EM ! < /i
SCOTTY: Oh no . Not this one
SAPPHIRE: Who brought Opie ? < /i
PENNY: He 's with us .
SCOTTY: He was n't with you .
SAPPHIRE: Are you going to turn this into a i > Thing ? < /i
SCOTTY: All of you can wait outside ! Top of the ramp !
WILLIAM: I do n't want to cause a Thing . I 'll wait .
PENNY: I 'll go take care of this .
DICK: Let us in , we 're Stillwater ! We 're on the show ! !
JEFF: The enemy ! A rock writer !
WILLIAM: I 'd like to interview you or someone from the band .
DICK: I 'm sorry but could you please fuck off ? < /i
WILLIAM: Okay . Okay . I could do that .
LARRY: That was Rolling Stone. < /i
RUSSELL: Yeah . Okay . Fuck off anyway . We play for fans , not critics .
WILLIAM: Russell . Jeff . Ed . Larry . I really love your band . I think the song `` Fever Dog '' is a big step forward for you guys . I think you guys producing it yourselves , instead of Glyn Johns , was the right thing to do . And the guitar sound was incendiary. < /i Way to go .
RUSSELL: Well do n't stop there. < /i
JEFF: Yeah , come back here ! ! Keep going !
SCOTTY: Not this one .
RUSSELL: He 's with us .
RUSSELL: Red Dog !
RED DOG: We 're playing here tomorrow night .
JEFF: This is Red Dog , the Allman Brothers Band 's number one roadie . Russel clamps an arm around Red Dog 's neck .
RUSSELL: How 're the guys ?
RED DOG: Havin a ball , man . When we have a party , we have an Allman Brothers Band < /i party . Everybody boogies . Everybody gets off . It 's family , man . We all got These now . We 'll see you guys in Boston , right ? Dicky and Gregg send you their love .
RUSSELL: and it 's okay , because rock and oll is a LIFESTYLE and a way of thinking and it 's not about money and `` popularity ! ''
JEFF: Some money would be nice .
RUSSELL: - but it 's a voice that says here I am and FUCK YOU if you ca n't understand me .
JEFF: And the chicks are great .
RUSSELL: But we did n't do it for that ! We are here because we needed to fuckin be here , not just 'cause we needed to away from Troy , Michigan , WHICH WE DID but what it all comes down to is that thing . The Indefinable Thing , when people catch something from you music , the thing you put into it . I 'm talking about what am I talking about ?
WILLIAM: The buzz ?
RUSSELL: THE BUZZ ! And the chicks , the whatever , is an off-shoot of THE BUZZ . And like you saying you liked `` Feve Dog ? '' That is the fucking buzz , man . All we get are these fucking old-ass interviewers who do n't understand , do n't LISTEN , do n't appreciate why we are here , which is the fuckin ' BUZZ .
JEFF: The next album will be even better . More texture .
RUSSELL: But it 's not what you put in , is it ? It 's what you leave out . Listen to listen to Marvin Gaye
WILLIAM: I know that , `` woo . ''
RUSSELL: That 's what you remember . The silly things , the little things there 's only one , and it makes the song . It 's what you leave out . That 's rock and oll .
JEFF: We used to talk more about this stuff .
RUSSELL: Okay . See , this is maybe the most honest we 've ever been in an interview ecause you know our music . You 're the first press guy we 've made friends with . We do n't normally talk like this to them . And you 're supposed to e The Enemy ! What are you - 18 ?
WILLIAM: Yeah .
RUSSELL: There you go . Still young enough to e honest .
DICK: Ten minutes 'till showtime , anyone who is n't in the band out ! < /i
PENNY LANE: I found you a pass .
WILLIAM: Thanks . I got in with Stillwater . The guitarist , Russel Hammond , he just thoroughly opened up . He is by far the best and most honest interview I 've ever done . I 've only done two , but you know . He 's number one. < /i
PENNY LANE: You 're learning . They 're much more fun on the way up .
WILLIAM: Eighteen .
PENNY LANE: Me too . How old are we really ?
WILLIAM: Seventeen .
PENNY LANE: Me too .
WILLIAM: Actually I 'm 16 .
PENNY LANE: Me too . Is n't it funny ? The truth just sounds Different .
WILLIAM: I 'm 15 .
PENNY LANE: You want to know how old I really am ?
WILLIAM: No .
PENNY LANE: It 's a long story .
WILLIAM: Right . Right .
PENNY LANE: We live in the same city . We should e friends .
RUSSELL: The Enemy !
WILLIAM: Russell , this is Penny Lane .
PENNY LANE: Pleasure .
RUSSELL: Penny Lane ? Like the song , right ?
PENNY LANE: Have we met ?
WILLIAM: Well , I guess you 've you 've met .
DICK: Penny Lane ! God 's gift to rock and oll ! ! You 're back ! Marc Bolan . Please. < /i
RUSSELL: Come on , let 's go . Both of you .
DICK: From Troy , Michigan . Please welcome i > Stillwater. < /i
RUSSELL: So . You want to come up to L.A. , we 'll e at the `` Riot House '' all week .
WILLIAM: `` The Riot House ? ''
RUSSELL: The Continental Hyatt House ! It 's on Sunset Strip .
WILLIAM: Right . Right .
DICK: Let 's blow this burg !
RUSSELL: Well tell your friend Miss Penny Lane to Call Me . Tell her `` It ai n't California without her . We want he around like last summer . '' Say it like that .
WILLIAM: Got it .
RUSSELL: Oh , I 'm under the name - Harry Houdini. < /i
JEFF: The Enemy ! ! Yeah ! ! Come to L.A. , we 'll take some more .
WILLIAM: Later Jeff ! See you , Dick . Larry . Ed . Mick , Gregg , Red Dog , Scully , Frosty , Estrella , The Wheel ! < /i
PENNY: Hey . Hey . Be cool .
WILLIAM: You just missed Russell ! He says he 's at the `` Riot House '' all week and to call
PENNY LANE: I think I 've heard of it .
WILLIAM: He had a message for you ! He said , `` It 's not California without you . We want you around like last summer . '' Actually he said `` ai n't . '' `` It ai n't < /i California - ``
PENNY LANE: I get the gist .
WILLIAM: How well do you guys know each other ? She smiles privately . WILLIAM I got it . No problem . Long story . Alright ! I got ta go .
PENNY LANE: Call me if you need a rescue . We live in the same city .
WILLIAM: I think I live in a different world .
PENNY: Speaking of the world . I 've made a decision . I 'm going to live in Morocco for one year . I need a new crowd .
WILLIAM: Yes .
PENNY: It 's a plan . You 've got to call me .
WILLIAM: Okay .
PENNY: It 's all happening .
WILLIAM: It 's all happening .
DARRYL: Hey .
WILLIAM: Yeah . She and Mom are still sorta I 'd say `` not speaking , '' but I do n't know if they ever did .
DARRYL: Your sister . A stewardess . The things your sister and I did inside these four walls
WILLIAM: That 's okay . I do n't want to know . It 's my room now .
DARRYL: We flew the friendly skies -
WILLIAM: Okay - < /i
DARRYL: I do n't want to put you in the middle of anything . We do n't have to talk about it .
WILLIAM: No .
DARRYL: You seem cooler .
WILLIAM: Yeah . I 'm thinking about going to Morocco .
DARRYL: Lem me know if you need a little help with your Mom .
WILLIAM: A little might not be enough .
DARRYL: She still freaks me out .
WILLIAM: Yeah -
DARRYL: She 's famous .
WILLIAM: Listen -
DARRYL: Go ahead and do what you were doing . I just wan na hang in here for a moment .
WILLIAM: Cool . Alright .
DARRYL: Okay , man .
WILLIAM: Okay , man .
ELAINE: I worry about the drunk drivers .
WILLIAM: Mom . I 'm 15 . Right ?
ELAINE: Yes , you 're 15 . `` And here 's that money I owed you . ''
WILLIAM: I thought it was pretty good .
ELAINE: Keep the small bills on the outside . And call me if anyone gets drunk .
WILLIAM: I will call you if anyone i > anywhere gets drunk .
ELAINE: Good .
WILLIAM: And do n't take drugs .
ELAINE: Ha ha . Very funny . See sense of humor . Have fun at the dance . I 'm glad you 're making friends .
WILLIAM: Mom ?
ELAINE: Yeah -
WILLIAM: Stay .
ELAINE: Oh okay .
WILLIAM: I-love-you-bye .
PENNY LANE: The Continental Hyatt House . Also known as The Riot House . Every band stays here , all the ones that matter . The Who . Zeppelin . Alice . Bowie . English bands . American ands . We all know each other . Twenty- four hour room service . Like us , they were outsiders . They were so outside , inside , and insiders neve even knew it , because they 're outsidersoutsiders < /i will never be . And why are we even talking about it ? If you 're really an insider , you 're never gon na say it . You know what I mean ?
WILLIAM: Yeah . Yes. < /i
PENNY: And we 're not gon na hang out with Russell . You can , but not me .
WILLIAM: What is it with you and Russell ?
PENNY LANE: It 's all happening . And I 'm about to use you as protection .
PENNY: Please . I throw the little ones back .
POLEXIA: Ian Hunter is a fucking asshole ! < /i
WILLIAM: Polexia !
POLEXIA: Opie ! ! !
RIC: It 's all happening . I just saw them on the seventh floor ! Mr. Jimmy Page Mr. John Paul Jones Mr. Robert Plant signed my shirt in the elevator ! ! Five minutes ago , he touched this pen . Please do n't smea it . And Bonzo 's got ta new motorcycle in the hotel !
PENNY: Ric is a Zeppelin fan .
WILLIAM: Yeah , I picked that up .
PENNY: He tours with them , but not `` with '' them .
RIC: They 're on the 12th floor , but there 's guards there ! So you got ta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps .
PENNY LANE: This is my very dear , very close , very i > wonderful friend William Miller , he is i > very close with Lester Bangs .
RIC: It 's all happening ! ! See you in Cleveland ! Ric rushes back to the elevators .
PENNY LANE: I 'm retired ! Does n't anybody believe me ! ?
WILLIAM: Harry Houdini , please .
PENNY LANE: Okay . Time to put on the lampshade .
RUSSELL: Alright .
WILLIAM: Alright .
PENNY LANE: `` In the unlikely event of a wate landing , the seat below you will serve as a - '' Oh , the hell with it .
POLEXIA: Act One , in which she pretends she does n't care about him .
WILLIAM: We 've got to stop them .
POLEXIA: Stop them ? You were her excuse fo coming here .
PENNY: I need ice !
POLEXIA: I just worry about people using her . You know ? 'Cause she brings out the good side in everybody else , but what do they do for her ? Life kills me . Do you have any pot ?
WILLIAM: Not on me .
POLEXIA: Do you smoke ?
WILLIAM: No . But I I grow it . I grow it .
POLEXIA: You 're funny . You know , if you were only taller , English , rich , a guitar- player and older
WILLIAM: I 'd be someone else .
POLEXIA: Yeah . Good point .
PENNY: How does it end ?
RUSSELL: What ?
PENNY: You know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife the one we do n't talk about and gets a hundred okay , five letters from him , and then does n't even leave a pass in San Diego . Wake up ! I 'm etired and I never believed you anyway . You 're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it .
RUSSELL: You 're retired like Frank Sinatra is etired .
PENNY: i > Damn. < /i
RUSSELL: Come to Arizona .
PENNY: Never .
RUSSELL: We leave Thursday morning . 9 AM . And pack light this time . Jesus. < /i
WILLIAM: This is he .
BEN: Crazy . William , this is Ben Fong- Torres . I 'm the music editor at Rolling Stone Magazine . We 've got a copy of your stories from the San Diego Door . This is the same William Miller ?
WILLIAM: Yes it is .
BEN: Voice of God , howling dogs , the spirit of rock And roll this is good solid stuff .
WILLIAM: Thanks thanks .
BEN: You should be writing for us . Any ideas ?
WILLIAM: How about Stillwater ?
BEN: Crazy . New album their third starting to do something .
WILLIAM: Sounds good .
BEN: We can only pay lem me see , three-
WILLIAM: Yes .
BEN: What college
ELAINE: Honey , I need you to do that thing that fixes the garbage disposal She hangs up .
BEN: Well , I know how my lady gets when I do n't Snap to it -
WILLIAM: Crazy .
BEN: Crazy ! I 'll let you go . Call me at the San Francisco office tomorrow .
LESTER BANGS: Beware Rolling Stone Magazine . They will change your story , they 'll re- write it and turn it into swill . Beware ! !
WILLIAM: But besides that , what would be wrong with it ?
LESTER BANGS: You have starry eyes , my friend . Look . Do the story . It 's a good break for ya . But remember this The kid listens intently , and makes notes . LESTER BANGS do n't do it to make friends with people who are trying to use you to further the big business desire to glorify worthless rock stars like Stillwater . And do n't let those swill merchants re-write you .
WILLIAM: swill merchants
LESTER BANGS: Now . What are you listening to ?
WILLIAM: I need to talk to Mrs. Deegan , from Journalism . Mrs. Deegan appears in the doorway .
ELAINE: Whatever it is , the answer is no .
MRS. DEEGAN: Elaine , we need to talk to you . i > Nothing is wrong . I am a teacher . You 're a teacher . We speak the same language .
ELAINE: Honey , what are you doing here ?
DARRYL: Moral support .
ELAINE: What 's involved ?
MRS. DEEGAN: Well . It 's a great opportunity . He 'll e well-paid , and published nationally and he 'll go on tour with a rock and for four days . No small planes he travels on a bus .
ELAINE: Is it time for me to say something ?
MRS. DEEGAN: Sure .
ELAINE: No. < /i
MRS. DEEGAN: And in anticipation of that response -
ELAINE: No .
MRS. DEEGAN: William has prepared
ELAINE: `` Lo , that which I have feared has come upon me . ''
WILLIAM: `` He who jealously guards his fears , quietly yearns to bring them about ! ''
ELAINE: i > No . I have raised him to be an hono student , which he is . We have agreed on all our goals . We raised him to be a lawyer , we moved here to be near the finest law school in the West . Plus , he has finals coming up , and in one week he graduates with all his friends < /i
DARRYL: He 's got no friends ! !
WILLIAM: Darryl . Please .
MRS. DEEGAN: Elaine , may I present to you you own son .
WILLIAM: Lady of the Jury.now performed by hard-working intellectuals , with with blazing intellectual pursuits , and I am going to play for you a piece of music designed to show you that my thesis is correct .
ELAINE: This is going to be hell .
WILLIAM: The song is based on the literature of Tolkien and it 's mystical attempt to elevate humanity has been successful throughout the world this song < /i will change your life .
ELAINE: What am I supposed to say ? You say it 's Tolkien , fine . They sound like nice kids . Is it meant to elevate humanity ? `` Sure , let 's elevate humanity . After we sell you drugs and sex . '' All I have is my honesty . That 's what I believe , and that 's what I know . Oh . Here 's a nice ad .
DICK: C'mon , Doris ! Darling Bus . You can make it !
PENNY: Gotcha .
POLEXIA: Do you have any pot ?
WILLIAM: No . I 'm a journalist. < /i
POLEXIA: Well , go do your job then . You 're on the road , man . It 's all happening ! Get in there . Go talk to 'em !
WILLIAM: Russell . Do you think we might be able to find some time to talk when we get to Phoenix ? I want to interview everyone separately and I felt we 'd start with you and me .
RUSSELL: Absolutely .
WILLIAM: Because I 've got a thing in a couple days .
RUSSELL: What .
WILLIAM: It 's a thing where uhm you go there to graduate . School .
RUSSELL: I never graduated . And look what happened . You 're here interviewing me. < /i
LARRY: How did you know I was thirsty ?
PENNY: I may need to stay in your room tonight . Russell 's in a bad mood . He 's very i > Bob Dylan in Do n't Look Back today . He 's trying to write .
POLEXIA: Want some ?
WILLIAM: No thanks .
ELAINE: Has William Miller arrived yet ? He has n't . Could you give him a message as soon as you see him ? -
DICK: Jeff , Tony Keys keys keys oom list If it does n't have a number on it , it ai n't ours !
CLERK: Is this Mr. Miller ? You have a message from Elaine .
WILLIAM: Thanks .
CLERK: She 's a handful .
WILLIAM: I know .
SAPPHIRE: Finally , you 're here ! ! They kicked me out of my room ! Fuck Ozzy !
RUSSELL: Come by in a few minutes . We 'll do the interview .
JEFF: I 'm worried , man .
RUSSELL: Naw , we can trust him . He 's a fan .
JEFF: But it 's Rolling Stone . He looks harmless , but he does represent the magazine that trashed Eric Clapton , oke up Cream , ripped Led Zeppelin , and wrote that lame story about the Allman Brothers Band that bummed Duane out before he died . Do n't forget the Rules . This little shit is the Enemy . He writes what he sees . But it would be cool to be on the cover .
RUSSELL: Leave it to me . We 'll get a good story .
JEFF: Plus our girlfriends read this magazine and - you know .
RUSSELL: You made your point . I 'll take to him .
PENNY: Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight ? She had a big fight with Ozzy , and Polexia 's not working out with Jeff Bebe . You just have to remember these guys are jealous , insecure , talented , egocentric , and manipulative geniuses they 're lead-singers . They can say `` I love you '' to 20,000 people but any fewer is a real problem . Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy ove Russell that he ca n't express . Plus , he never slept last night . You keep Sapphire and I 'll stay with Russell .
WILLIAM: Sure . I 'll take her .
POLEXIA: Me too ?
WILLIAM: Sure .
POLEXIA: Hi Dad ! ! I ca n't talk long ! I 'm here in Paris . I 'm staying in another Youth Hostel with no phone and no address for mail ! !
WILLIAM: Alex . Lowbatz. < /i
SAPPHIRE: I was the one who told him what to tattoo on his fingers , I was the one who made his shirts I was there < /i when his wife left him .
WILLIAM: Charles . C. Swoop. < /i
WILLIAM: Paul and Debbie Finger. < /i
ESTRELLA: Oh my God . Simon Kirke of Bad Company is by the pool. < /i
POLEXIA: I GOT TA GO ! I 'LL CALL FROM ROME !
ESTRELLA: Is anybody here as worried about Penny and Russell as I am ?
SAPPHIRE: Ooo , watch out - whoever you look at when you say that - that 's who you eally mean .
RUSSELL: You know . We should talk about what we do n't talk about .
PENNY: We do n't have to .
RUSSELL: No , I - I went to Catholic school . I elieve in guilt and you know , if there 's any to be had , I pretty much want to roll around in it .
PENNY: I do n't believe in attachments . No oundaries . Just the music .
RUSSELL: I 'm just saying , it 's okay to talk about it . Penny stands and turns . She speaks the word .
PENNY: Leslie . Russell nods . The name is out in the open . PENNY Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie .
RUSSELL: Alright - now we 're talking .
PENNY: Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Lesssssslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . Leslie . LESlie . Leslie
SAPPHIRE: Opie , can I order room service ?
WILLIAM: Okay . You guys . Wait . Put down the phone , Polexia . First , this is my room
SAPPHIRE: Come on , you 're a fan like us . You 're on our side of the line .
WILLIAM: Second . I 'm not Opie . Alright ? Opie is a little boy . I 'm here to do a job . I am a professional. < /i
ESTRELLA: Ooooooo , sorry , Mr. 42. < /i
WILLIAM: Third ! this phone is a big , big deal . In a minute , I have to go interview
POLEXIA: But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire ? And I gave Jimmy Page this number .
ESTRELLA: Or a guy who looked like Jimmy Page .
WILLIAM: Okay . I have a solution . Answer the
RUSSELL: GO AWAY !
WILLIAM: OKAY !
PENNY: Do n't worry . Some to the radio interview .
WILLIAM: No , I 'm fine . I 'll just interview Jeff Bebe some more .
QUINCE ALLEN: The guitar of Russell Hammond . `` Feve Dog '' The band is Stillwater . Watch with your mind as they materialize .
ESTRELLA: William 's room .
BEN: Can I please speak to him ? This is Ben Fong-Torres at Rolling Stone. < /i
ESTRELLA: I think I just messed up !
QUINCE: Look at the dogs , wearing the funny hats . Juggling just for you . Freaks and family
JEFF: Well not to get into a `` me '' thing this is Jeff talking but I did start the band , some time , actually , ago . This is back when we were the Jeff Bebe band , and I placed an ad in a magazine called Peaches looking for a guitarist and Russell Hammond answered . Quince nods , head bowed , swaying slowly .
QUINCE: Peaches .
JEFF: I think he was a gift from God , actually . Nobody plays like Russell Hammond .
RUSSELL: Well , shit . Thank you .
JEFF: Everybody pays you compliments . It 's not my fucking job to kiss your fucking ass all the time .
RUSSELL: Well then who 's fucking job is it ? Because my ass is dying for a kiss . And I know yours is too .
DICK: It 's my fucking job . You 're all geniuses . And let me just add this thought - smegma. < /i
TONY: Feces .
QUINCE: The dong is called `` Love Thing . '' You mind is Starting to take effect . They 're all here to see you swallow fire . You scream soundlessly on the i > Night Circus . It 's Quince , with Stillwater .
RUSSELL: See , this is what nobody writes about ! < /i The in-between times ! This ! Us ! Right now ! !
ESTRELLA: Hello ?
ELAINE: May I speak with William please ?
ESTRELLA: He 's not here . I think he 's in the ar with the Band . They just got back from the radio station . Is this Maryann with the pot ? Silence . ESTRELLA Hello ?
ELAINE: No this is n't Maryann with the pot . This is Elaine his Mother . Estrella physically recoils .
ESTRELLA: I thought you were English .
ELAINE: Could you please give him a message ? Could you tell him to call home immediately ? And could you also tell him - i > I know what 's going on. < /i
ESTRELLA: Alright . Okay . But I 'm just going to say this , and I 'm going to stand by it . You should be really proud of him . 'Cause I know guys and I 'll bet you do too . And he respects women , and he likes women , and let 's just pause and appreciate a man like that . You created him out of thin air , and you aised him right , and we 're all looking out for him . And that 's more than I 've ever said to my own parents , so there you go . This is the maid speaking , by the way .
WILLIAM: Now that you 're starting to be successful , you had twenty-six years to write your first Album and you 'll have maybe four months for the second . Do you worry that the pressure of the usiness will get in the way of the original joy of making your music ? O
RUSSELL: Whoa ! I need three more beers and my guita efore I can answer that question . Let 's take a walk .
WILLIAM: It 's off .
RUSSELL: Look . I trust you . I 'm going to lay this right on you . Just make us look cool .
WILLIAM: I will quote you warmly and accurately .
RUSSELL: That 's what I 'm worried about . See - some of us have girlfriends back home . Some of us have wives . And some of the people you meet on the road are eally amazing people
WILLIAM: Ohhhh . Oh . Yeah .
RUSSELL: You know what I mean ?
WILLIAM: Right . Yeah .
RUSSELL: See , you 're dangerous . Most people are just waiting to talk , but you i > listen. < /i
WILLIAM: Right . Right .
RUSSELL: So your question you asked me . I think about It every fucking night . The `` business . '' I hate it ! I grew up with these guys , okay ? I ca n't play all that I can play , I 'm
WILLIAM: I do .
RUSSELL: The more popular we get , the more I ca n't walk on them , the bigger thei houses get , the more pressure you forget , man . You forget what it was like to be real , to be a fan . You can hear it in a lot of bands who 've been successful - it does n't sound like music anymore . It sounds like like lifestyle maintenance. < /i I used to be able to hear the sounds of the world . Everything , to me , used to sound like music . Everything . Now I do n't hear it . You know what I 'm trying to say ?
WILLIAM: Yeah .
RUSSELL: Man , it feels good to say this stuff out loud . But what am I doing ? I 'm telling secrets to the one guy you do n't tell secrets to .
WILLIAM: No , that 's okay . We 'll do the interview tomorrow .
RUSSELL: This is good . So there 's the `` friend '' and then there 's the `` interview guy . ''
WILLIAM: Yeah .
RUSSELL: So tonight it 's `` friend '' . and when we wake up tomorrow - `` interview guy . '' We 'll figure it out as we go , buddy .
WILLIAM: Hey - for whatever it 's worth - you guys are really good .
LARRY: I 'm the bass-player .
WILLIAM: Right . And when you take that away what would be missing ? Stylistically ? What chemical ? < /i
LARRY: The bass ? Larry does n't give him much .
DICK: Good evening Phoenix . From Troy , Michigan . Please welcome , i > Stillwater. < /i
PROMOTER: Are you the manager of this band ?
DICK: That , and more . Get in !
PROMOTER: You did n't even play a full set !
DICK: Your shoddy stage set-up almost killed our guitarist !
PROMOTER: You trashed the dressing room - you did n't play your thirty-five minutes . You did n't fulfill your contract -
DICK: Everybody in ! Get in the bus !
PROMOTER: I 'll report you to every promoter in the country ! I 'm gon na talk to Frank Barcelona ! < /i
DICK: YOU DO N'T FUCK WITH MY BAND 'S SAFETY !
PROMOTER: I hope you have a good lawyer .
DICK: I AM A LAWYER !
PROMOTER: LOCK THE GATE ON 'EM !
PENNY: Do n't worry . It 's happened to all the greats . Thank God you did n't hold the mike stand with both hands , you 'd still e holding it . This is a good thing . It 's a good , good , good thing .
ESTRELLA: I forgot to tell you ! Your mom says to call home immediately . She says i > she knows what 's going on ! < /i See you guys in Topeka ! I 'll catch a ide with Sabbath !
DICK: Wan na buy a gate ?
WILLIAM: What did it feel like to be electrocuted ?
RUSSELL: It burns . It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body and then you see God , and he says , `` How ad do you want to be legendary ? '' And god damnit . I let go . Rock and roll .
PENNY: Give that to me .
WILLIAM: What will our names be ?
PENNY: What do you think of Russell ?
WILLIAM: I like him .
PENNY: You 're coming to Cleveland , right ?
PENNY: You should give him a break . There are real problems in the band . Off the record .
WILLIAM: What problems ?
PENNY: Okay . I got it . I think your name should be Spencer , and mine will be Jane .
WILLIAM: I ca n't keep up with you .
PENNY: No one can .
WILLIAM: What 's your real name ?
PENNY: Here 's the thing about Russell . He 's my last project . I only do this for a very few people . And I think we should do it together - he is almost great . We 've got to take him there . You and me - we can do it . Deal ? Because the other guys are good - but he could be great . He 's my last project .
WILLIAM: What do you love about music ?
JEFF: Hey .
WILLIAM: Hey .
ELAINE: I guess I just miss you , and I do n't understand why I 've driven both my kids so far away from me . By all practical rules do n't I get you fo three more years ?
WILLIAM: I missed the last thing you said . Mom takes a pause .
ELAINE: I LOVE YOU .
WILLIAM: WHAT ?
WILLIAM: I LOVE YOU ! !
RUSSELL: Fire away . I 'm ready . I 'm on the `` You '' Train . Take me there .
WILLIAM: Do you have to be depressed to write a sad song ? Do you have to be in love to write a love song ? Is a song bette if it really happened to you ? Like , `` If You Say Nothing '' where did you write that and how did it come about ?
RUSSELL: When did you get so professional ?
PENNY: I 'm almost done with my shirt .
DICK: Russell , your dad showed up again . And on a lighter note . Gentlemen . Your first t-shirts have arrived .
RUSSELL: Can we just skip the vibe and go straight to us laughing about this ?
JEFF: Yeah . Okay .
RUSSELL: Because I can see by your face - you i > want to get into this -
JEFF: How can you tell ? I 'm just one of the out-of-focus guys .
RUSSELL: Here we go .
JEFF: Well , it speaks pretty loudly to me .
RUSSELL: It 's a t-shirt. < /i Russell turns away .
JEFF: I 'm always gon na tell you the truth .
RUSSELL: Are you doing coke again ?
JEFF: Oh yeah . All the time. < /i The kid looks down . JEFF This is big stuff , man . From the very eginning we said I 'm the front man and you 're the guitarist with mystique . That 's the dynamic we agreed on Page , Plant Mick , Keith . But somehow it 's all turning around . We have got to control what 's happening to us . There 's a responsibility here -
RUSSELL: Excuse me , but did n't we all get into this to avoid responsibility ?
JEFF: Forgive me . But this is the slow-moving train of compromise that will kill us .
RUSSELL: You can trust him , you can say whateve you want .
JEFF: I works as hard or harder than anybody on that stage . You know what I do - I
RUSSELL: Is it my turn ? Because I think we should , for once , say what we really < /i mean .
JEFF: Oh , this is the part where you quit -
RUSSELL: Right . I 'm so predictable .
JEFF: No I got ta tell the truth I want you to like me . But sometimes I feel like you collect people who love you and then very skillfully you make them feel bad that they 're not good enough for you .
RUSSELL: Stick to singing , brother , 'cause you ai n't gon na make it as a shrink .
JEFF: Deal with it ! And let me just say what nobody Else wants to say to you -
RUSSELL: What ?
JEFF: Your looks have become a problem .
DAD: Son !
RUSSELL: Hello Harry .
DAD: He got all the good genes , huh ? Meet Deirdre . We 're getting married in July .
WILLIAM: You okay ? You alright ? Russell does n't answer .
RUSSELL: From here on out , I 'm only interested in what 's real.You 're real .
WILLIAM: Thanks . A wave of warmth comes over Russell .
RUSSELL: You know , you know all about us and I do n't know shit about you . What 's your your family like ? Tell me .
WILLIAM: Well , my dad died of a heart attack and my sister believes that my Mom is so intense that she might have contributed to it . Plus -
RUSSELL: Okay , that 's good . That 's enough .
WILLIAM: It 's good to talk about it . Really good .
RUSSELL: If they want me , they can find me .
WILLIAM: So listen . I have to go home tomorrow . I know this is a bad time to finish our interview .
RUSSELL: Hey , man , you know what ? Write whateve you want . I trust you .
AARON: Wan na see me feed a mouse to my snake ?
RUSSELL: Yes. < /i
AARON: Down the hall by the washing machine .
RUSSELL: What ?
AARON: The bathroom .
RUSSELL: Okay . Good to know .
WILLIAM: We should probably head back sometime . Russell ignores him .
RUSSELL: Topeka . Check it out .
WILLIAM: Please do n't give him any more acid .
RUSSELL: Faces . Stones . Sa-weet Baby James ! ! plastic. < /i
WILLIAM: No no . Nope . No .
WILLIAM: Hey Russell -
RUSSELL: I AM A GOLDEN GOD ! !
WILLIAM: Do n't jump , okay ?
RUSSELL: And you can tell Rolling Stone Magazine < /i my last words were -
WILLIAM: I think we should work on those last words .
RUSSELL: Critic ! !
WILLIAM: No , I 'm not -
RUSSELL: Okay I got it . I got it . I got it . I got it . This is better . Last words
WILLIAM: Just come on down ! !
RUSSELL: Okay .
DICK: They 've been crying for you like a unch of whimpering pussies
RUSSELL: The band is over . This is my family now .
OTHERS: Right on . He 's staying with us .
DICK: Definitely . It 's all over . We 'll just ride on to Greenville , listen to some great music , finish the tour , and leave those ungrateful fools behind . And then we 'll come back here , where you 'll live .
RUSSELL: I know what you 're doing and I like it.cop ? < /i
DICK: Easy . He 's your Guardian Angel .
WILLIAM: Which half ?
DICK: Good question .
WILLIAM: I have a lot more . Just help me get my interview so I can go home from Greenville . I have to go home . i > I have to go home. < /i
DICK: Hey . You saved the tour . That 's good enough for now .
QUIET GIRL: I 'll never forget you .
LESTER: How 's it going ?
WILLIAM: Rolling Stone is calling me . I do n't have my key interview . I do n't know what to say .
LESTER BANGS: You 're flipping out . That 's good . Alright . This is how you blow thei minds . He 'll ask you - this is Ben Fong-Torres , right ? - he 'll ask you how the story 's going . Here 's what you do - let 's fry his mind . Tell him `` it 's a think piece about a mid-level and struggling with their own limitations in the harsh face of stardom . '' Ha ha ! ! This is fun ! William scrambles to make notes .
WILLIAM: think piece
SAPPHIRE: It says the food is hearty and adventurous .
POLEXIA: Greenville . I 'm bored .
SAPPHIRE: Who his the quaaludes from me ?
WILLIAM: Wait . I 'll leave .
PENNY: Backwards ?
WILLIAM: I do n't know . I just thought we could hang out , maybe do some stuff back home , regular stuff , get to know each other better and then I 'd see you pee . I mean , that 's the way I usually do it .
PENNY: You 're one of us . It 's no big deal .
WILLIAM: I 'm not one of you .
PENNY: Oh ! If you go to Cleveland , Bowie 's going to be there at Swingo 's , the greatest hotel in America . I 'll introduce you to him , and his security guy Dennis . William stops at the door .
WILLIAM: Do n't you have any regular friends ?
PENNY: Famous people are just more interesting .
WILLIAM: Well , I would be worried that they were using me . And not that anybody 's using you , but - She swoons a little , touched and moved .
PENNY: Boy , if this was the real world and some guy talked to me like that -
WILLIAM: Let me finish . I 'm not famous . but you could always use me . If anything happens . And I would never use you . Even if I got famous . So you know , you always have that from me in the real world . If you ever have to go back there , fo anything .
SAPPHIRE: Your time has come .
WILLIAM: Did he call ? What are you stop it we 're talking here .
SAPPHIRE: Pants him . Opie must die .
WILLIAM: Hello .
BEN: Hello William , this is your editor at
WILLIAM: I 'm getting good stuff out here .
BEN: Sounds like it . Next to him , Polexia yawns herself awake .
POLEXIA: Man , I need some - He clamps a hand over her mouth .
BEN: Now listen . Get it together . We 're oth professionals , I do n't have to tell you this . You 're not out there to join the party we already have one Hunter Thompson . You 're out there to interview and Report . You got me ?
WILLIAM: It 's a think-piece about a mid-level and grappling with their limitations in the face of the harsh glare of success .
BEN: I like what we 're saying . Let me try and get you a thousand more words . It 's in consideration for the cover , ut do n't tell the band .
WILLIAM: Crazy .
POLEXIA: - coffee .
SAPPHIRE: Me too . Greenville is so boring. < /i Any other city in the world and you 'd still be a virgin .
WILLIAM: I 'm going out to find Russell .
SAPPHIRE: Will you take the laundry ?
WILLIAM: What am I to you ? Tell me right now ! What . Am . I . To . You .
RUSSELL: Come on man , we 'll have more time there . Do n't be tense ! !
WILLIAM: You said you 'd help me .
PENNY: Come to Cleveland .
RUSSELL: Come to Cleveland Come to Cleveland
WILLIAM: I ca n't ! !
RUSSELL: Can we help it if we like having you around !
PENNY: Rock and roll !
WILLIAM: Rock and roll .
RUSSELL: I feel like his parents . Penny runs a worried hand through her hair .
PENNY: I know .
RUSSELL: I wonder how that happened .
PENNY: You ever notice that all our sentences egin with `` I ? ''
RUSSELL: I had n't , no .
PENNY: 'Cause we should work on that . He looks at her , plays the guitar a little .
RUSSELL: Cleveland !
FAN: It 's Bowie !
WILLIAM: Hi Mom . I 'm in Cleveland .
RUSSELL: Tell her you 're a slave to the groove - you ca n't help it !
WILLIAM: No .
RUSSELL: Hi Mom ! It 's Russell Hammond , I play guitar in Stillwater ! It 's my fault . How does it feel to be the mother of the future of rock journalism ? Hello ?
ELAINE: Listen to me . Your charm does not work on me . I 'm onto you . Of course < /i you like him .
RUSSELL: Yes .
ELAINE: He worships you people and that 's fine with you , as long as he helps make you ich. < /i
RUSSELL: Rich ? I do n't think so -
ELAINE: Listen to me . He 's a smart , good- hearted , 15 year-old kid , with infinite potential .
RUSSELL: Yes , ma'am .
ELAINE: If you break his spirit , harm him in any way , keep him from his chosen profession which is law , Something you may not value but I do you will meet the voice on the other end of this telephone . And it will not be pretty . Do we understand each other ?
RUSSELL: Yes yes
ELAINE: I did n't ask for this role , but I 'll play it . Now go do your best . `` Be old and mighty forces will come to your aide ! '' Goethe said that . It 's not too late for you to be a person of substance . Get my son home safely , I 'm glad we spoke .
WILLIAM: Some people get her . Some do n't .
RUSSELL: Your Mom kind of freaked me out .
WILLIAM: She means well .
DICK: From Troy , Michigan
WILLIAM: So when you play a great show like tonight Dick enters with great urgency .
DICK: Okay . I need everybody 's attention .
RUSSELL: Then bring him in . William shuts off his tape recorder .
JEFF: Bring him in ! We 'll send him out on a ail !
RUSSELL: We 'll finish on the way to Boston . You can fly home from Boston .
DENNIS HOPE: Hi .
RUSSELL: We already have a manager . He 's been with us from the beginning .
DENNIS HOPE: Respectfully . We all have our roots . I believe in bands holding onto thei oots . But those roots need to be augmented . I 'm gon na tell you the truth - I may enrage some and enthrall others . I do n't really give a fuck . You
RUSSELL: We travel by bus .
JEFF: Doris is the soul of this band ! That us has been our home since we were the Jeff Bebe Band . Dick watches his loyal band with admiration .
DENNIS: Hey man it 's travel on a pogo stick < /i if I thought we 'd make more money . You can play more dates with a plane
DENNIS HOPE: Yes , of course . Clearly . i > Respectfully . But on the distasteful subject of money . Just know . You 're
DENNIS HOPE: Do you know how to keep from getting charged for the ice below the floorboards of Chicago Stadium ? Do you know how to do a headlining tour , do you Claire Rothman at the L.A. Forum ? Do you know Bobbi Cowan , Lisa Robinson , Jim Ladd , Frank Barcelona ? This is Cleveland . Where 's Kid Leo ? ? played ? Do you know ? I did n't invent the rainy day , man . I just own the best umbrella .
DICK: Yeah , well we 'll think about what you said .
DENNIS HOPE: No no . You do n't understand . I 'll < /i think about it . I 'm not auditioning . I came here to decide whether I want
RUSSELL: This is not us . This is too much. < /i
DENNIS HOPE: Do you mind ?
WILLIAM: Anyone seen Russell ?
DICK: The Enemy ! Door widens to reveal Russell .
RUSSELL: Hey ! Welcome to the Road Crew Poke Party . This game 's been going of fo two years .
DICK: That 's Mick - he 's with The Who . That 's John - with J. Geils . And that 's Richard with the Eagles and you know The Wheel .
THE WHEEL: Hey .
DICK: Side proposition . For fifty dollars and a case of Heineken , I will put into the pot three Lovely Ladies , Including the famous Penny Lane the Band-Aids , who need to exit our tou efore New York
REG: It 's a deal . Show 'em .
DICK: Three Lovely Ladies now in the custody of Humble Pie .
REG: Alright , so we owe you fifty dollars and a case of Heineken .
RUSSELL: Look . Nobody 's feelings are getting hurt here . She already knows Leslie 's coming To New York tomorrow . They all understand . This is the Circus . Everybody 's trying not to go home . Nobody 's saying goodbye. < /i
WILLIAM: No , I got it .
RUSSELL: These are the Rules that come with every electric Guitar and every amplifier . They 're not just written < /i anywhere . Rock and roll , brother . No attachments . No boundaries . But the kid feels bad , and Russell knows it . RUSSELL Quit looking at me like that .
SABBATH ROADIE: Keep this hallway clear !
DICK: Happy Birthday from us .
RUSSELL: So Penny our friend has gained another year . But long ago , she threw it in gear . She rocked the south The East and West . Could you please get off this endless tou Where we 're Black Sabbath 's fucking special guest ? Laughter . RUSSELL She says she 's retired Though we 've heard that before . She chose us And in Penny Lane we trust She is a fan of this band . Much more so than us .
DENNIS HOPE: Sorry the plane is n't bigger .
PENNY: So it was n't a birthday party , it was a farewell .
WILLIAM: What 's that ?
PENNY: You 're worried about me and Russell .
WILLIAM: Yeah . I got ta work on that .
PENNY: You 're so sweet . God if there was more of you in him < /i
WILLIAM: Do n't tell me this stuff . I want to like him .
PENNY: Did you miss your test or something ? He shakes his head . It 's so beyond a test . PENNY I know I 'm not on the plane , and I 'm not going on some other band 's bus . I mean , I could go with the Sabbath road crew , but that would be pathetic . The girls are all going with Humble Pie . If you could find out from Russell
WILLIAM: Penny -
PENNY: Forget it . I 'm flying to New York myself . I have a bunch of partial tickets . I know his ex-wife , current girlfriend 's going to be there -
WILLIAM: I 'm not sure that 's a good idea .
PENNY: What ? What are you saying ? What do you know ? Did Russell say something ?
WILLIAM: I do n't know anything .
PENNY: I know he wants me there . He gave me a cake . He wrote me that sweet poem .
WILLIAM: Wake up ! Do n't go to New York !
PENNY: What are you telling me ? She looks so achingly beautiful to him .
WILLIAM: Because you 're not who you said you were ! I thought you were retired ! < /i
PENNY: You 're right . I 'm not who I said I was . I 'm just like you . I love music , so this is my family . Some people like tractors , and they hang out with i > tractor people . What 's the worst that could happen if I go to New York ? `` I get my little heart broken ? ''
WILLIAM: Oh no . Never you ! You eat people i > alive ! < /i
PENNY: I 'm sorry I told you so much . You have some way of making everybody tell you all their secrets .
WILLIAM: That 's a good one . Tell me too much and make it my fault .
PENNY: Come on . You 've seen what 's happened . Russell and I fell in love . How much , I do n't know but this is the first time I 've fallen for someone , really fallen since Iggy , and I 'm not happy about it. < /i
WILLIAM: You slept with Iggy Pop ! ? the whole store ! < /i He 's upset . She stares at him .
PENNY: You 'll remember me forever . I was there when you lost your virginity .
WILLIAM: So was Steely Dan ! It was a crowded oom . She laughs , ca n't help it . Then
PENNY: You make me laugh . I think I 'm gon na cry .
WILLIAM: I thought we were going to Morocco ! There 's no Morocco . There 's never beeneven know your real name. < /i
PENNY: If I ever met a guy in the real world , who looked at me the way you just looked at me
WILLIAM: When and where does the real world occur ? I am really confused here . Fuck ! All these Rules And all these sayings and nicknames
PENNY: You know you 're too sweet for rock and roll .
WILLIAM: Where do you get off where do you get `` sweet ? '' I 'm not sweet . I 'm dark and mysterious and pissed-off and I could be very dangerous to all of you I 'm not sweet , and you should know that about me ! I am The Enemy. < /i
PENNY: You 're not any of those things and that 's what I love about you .
WILLIAM: You fall in love to keep from falling in love .
PENNY: I do n't want to go home !
WILLIAM: Well , I have to go home . And you neve helped me. < /i
PENNY: Yes I did .
WILLIAM: That disc-jockey in Arizona got a bette interview than me and he was asleep. < /i
PENNY: Look . You should be happy for me . You do n't know what he says to me in private . Maybe it is love . As much as it can be with someone who
WILLIAM: sold you to Humble Pie for fifty dollars and a case of beer ? I was there !
PENNY: What kind of beer ?
POLEXIA: Who did this to us ?
ELAINE: Then do n't come home . Do n't do this to me . If you 're going to miss graduation , do n't come home . She hangs up .
RUSSELL: `` New York . Just like I pictured it
JEFF: `` skyscrapers and everything . ''
RUSSELL: We showed you America . We did everything but get you laid .
FAN: I 'm from the Church of Lenny . We bow to his will and all that it represents - The King of the King of Kings .
RUSSELL: Make it out to - ?
FAN: To Lenny. < /i
DICK: She 's here .
JEFF: Leslie !
DICK: Your room is completely stocked , fa away from any noisy ice machines , elevators or maid quarters . The air- conditioning is already on . And here is your security key by the way , you look stunning .
LESLIE: ThanksI'llseeyoulater .
DICK: Bags in five ! Cars leave for the party at six !
WILLIAM: Well I kept thinking I was going home the next day
DICK: I did too . Fifteen years ago .
WILLIAM: Ric ! It 's Super Zeppelin fan Ric Nunez .
RIC: It 's all happening . Zeppelin is at the Plaza . So 's four other bands . They 're partying up there right now . Sapphire , and Miss Penny Lane too She wants you to call her . They 're all staying under the name Emily Rugburn .
RUSSELL: After the party . I 'll come to you oom - I promise . We 'll talk . This is Leslie , by the way . Leslie , this is our wayward friend from Rolling Stone . The Enemy . They shake , she smiles randomly .
CLERK: William Miller ? Sir , you have an urgent call from a Mr. `` Ben Fong-Torres . '' He 's holding for you , right now .
WILLIAM: Hello .
BEN: Congratulations . It 's gon na be a cover . Neal Preston will shoot 'em next week in L.A. we need you back in San Francisco tomorrow . We 'll finish the story here .
WILLIAM: Mojo ?
BEN: A mojo . It 's a very modern machine that transmits pages over the telephone . It only takes eighteen Minutes a page
DENNIS HOPE: He 's okay , he 's with us -
RUSSELL: Ah ha ! There you are , ya little fucker . Come on
WILLIAM: I have some good news .
RUSSELL: I 'll piss to that . Follow me .
WILLIAM: I do .
RUSSELL: Oh - get this - somebody told Penny Lane I sold her for beer . The network of these chicks ! Like I would do that . It 's Jeff who told her , right ? Not you , right ? None of these guys can just calm down and be a fuckin adult. < /i Now she 's here , freaking out . Leslie can smell it .
WILLIAM: Wait . I 've got something to tell -
JEFF: The cover of Rolling Stone . And we made it together . They do n't just put somebody with one little hit on the cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine , man . We made it . The band nods solemnly , importantly . JEFF Damn it I 'm gon na enjoy this . The first time I bought that magazine The Beatles were on the cover . Four of them . Four of us . Together . i > TOGETHER ! < /i
LESLIE: Who is that girl ? She 's creeping me out . She 's not with any of you , is she ?
WILLIAM: Emily Rugburn , please .
ENGLISH MUSICIAN: She 's sick . Let 's get out of here .
WILLIAM: What happened ?
PENNY LANE: I 'm not good at goodbyes . She sags . He grabs the phone . PENNY LANE You 're the last of my old-time friends . Polexia went to England with Deep Purple can you believe that ? Even Sapphire 's out someplace else . All she left was her quaaludes .
WILLIAM: Oh wonderful.702 . Both ooms , either room . This is Mr. Rugburn , Yes . My wife 's had an accident with some quaaludes . Yes - I 'll do that .
PRINCIPAL: And now out graduating class ! Jane i > Abbott ! < /i
WILLIAM: `` In the unlikely event of a wate landing ``
PENNY: `` you will be required to wear a safety vest . ''
WILLIAM: Keep going .
PENNY: `` Please place all stowable luggage in the overhead compartments out in the seat in front of you . ''
WILLIAM: `` Seat and tray tables . ''
PRINCIPAL: And now out `` Pending '' Graduates ! < /i William Miller not present .
WILLIAM: `` In the tragic event of a wate landing ''
PRINCIPAL: And to the class of 1973 , we say Do n't forget to remember yourself as you are today Full of hope and the dream that everything is possible Remember this , twenty years from now , when we all own home computers and we all travel in shiny electrical cars that move swiftly , high above the city They key to the future is keeping today alive forever. < /i
MRS. DEEGAN: First . Release the guilt . Second -
ELAINE: Please let there be only two , because I ca n't get past Number One .
MRS. DEEGAN: Second . Leave a little room for the other teachers in this world . He 's out there looking for mentors .
ELAINE: He 's got twelve of them . They 're lined up . He 's just tired of me. < /i
PENNY: `` you will be required to '' I 'm tired . She is very groggy , as he holds her .
WILLIAM: Well . Now that I have your attention . And you may not remember this later , I just want to make it clear that Hey ! Many men have gone before
DOCTOR: Your wife will be okay for now -
WILLIAM: Thank you Doctor .
DOCTOR: However , she says you 're her brother .
WILLIAM: She 's a little confused .
DOCTOR: Nice champagne .
WILLIAM: I do n't have a driver 's license . With me .
DOCTOR: Tomorrow 's my wedding anniversary . I 'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station . So if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to he parents , I 'd let you pay me anything you can afford . Because you do n't appear to be related to the famous Rugburns of Rhode Island .
WILLIAM: Happy Anniversary . The Doctor puts the champagne in his bag .
DOCTOR: She wo n't be good company , but keep her awake for another four hours .
PENNY: When I was 14 , my Mom and her boyfriend took me to a Rolling Stones concert - and I freaked out and I rushed up to the front of the stage and then a thousand people had the same idea at the same time and I was getting crushed . And I could n't breathe and that thought flashed through me - almost like a ca accident - I thought I might die . And it was in the middle of `` Midnight Rambler '' and Keith Richards saw me . And he came over , and came to the front of the stage , and he pulled me out . And they took me backstage and they gave me coke with ice and a - and a lemon . And I never went home .
WILLIAM: What about your Mom ?
PENNY: She always said - `` Marry Up . '' Marry someone grand . That 's why she named me Lady .
WILLIAM: She named you Lady ? < /i
PENNY: Lady Goodman .
WILLIAM: No .
PENNY: You never really get used to it , either .
WILLIAM: Well this this just explains i > everything. < /i
PENNY: See you back there .
WILLIAM: Hey Lady !
STEWARDESS: Please extinguish all flammable items , and return all seats and tray tables to their full and upright locked positions .
RUSSELL: Why did n't you come back to the party ? Bob Dylan showed up . He was sitting at our table for had to be an hour , ight ? Just Rapping . Bob Dylan ! I kept looking for you . I was going to introduce you . The kid feels pain .
JEFF: What happened to you last night ?
WILLIAM: It 's a log story .
RUSSELL: `` Peggy Sure Peggy Sue ``
DICK: Please .
RUSSELL: `` Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy Sue ``
JEFF: We should n't be here .
RUSSELL: Doris , we miss you !
PILOT'S VOICE: This is Craig , your pilot . It appears we 've caught the edge of that electrical storm we were trying to outrun . Buckle up tight now . We 're gon na do our best to getcha out of this .
JEFF: `` Electrical storm ? ''
RUSSELL: Rock and roll .
DENNIS HOPE: A field ? < /i
JEFF: I ca n't breathe .
DICK: And everyone thinks it 's so glamorous out here .
LARRY: He just told us we 're gon na die .
JEFF: We 're gon na crash in Elvis ' hometown
RUSSELL: Shut up .
JEFF: we ca n't even die in an original city !
RUSSELL: C'mon Dennis , get us a better city .
LESLIE: Oh my God .
RUSSELL: If something should happen . I love all of you . I do n't think we have to do the secrets thing .
DENNIS HOPE: I once hit a man in Dearborn , Michigan . A hit-and-run . I hit him and kept on going . I do n't know if he 's alive o dead , but I 'm sorry .
LESLIE: i > Oh my God. < /i
DICK: I love you all too , and you 're my family . Especially since Marna left me . But if I ever took an extra dolla or two , here and there , it was because I knew I 'd earned it .
RUSSELL: I slept with Marna , Dick .
JEFF: I did too .
LARRY: I waited until you broke up with her . But me too .
JEFF: I also slept with Leslie , when you were fighting .
RUSSELL: You slept with Jeff ?
LESLIE: Yes , but it did n't count . It was the summer we decided to be free of all ules .
RUSSELL: And you say you `` love me . ''
JEFF: I do n't love you , man . I never did .
RUSSELL: Please . Enough .
JEFF: NONE of us love you . You act above us . You ALWAYS HAVE ! !
LARRY: Finally . The truth .
JEFF: You just held it over us , like you light leave like we 're lucky to be
RUSSELL: You hate me ? You too ? < /i Larry stares at him . Ed says nothing . RUSSELL
JEFF: And I 'm still in love with you Leslie .
LESLIE: I do n't want to hear anymore . Shut up ! Shut up ! Shut up ! < /i
RUSSELL: i > Whatever happens , you 're dead. < /i
JEFF: Do n't be self-righteous , Russell , not now . You were sleeping with Penny , that groupie . Last summer , and up until yesterday . Why do n't you tell Leslie THAT ?
DENNIS: I quit .
WILLIAM: `` That groupie ? '' She was a Band-Aid.all of you.Bob Dylan . You 're always talking about the fans , the fans , the fans . She was your biggest fan and you threw her away . And if you ca n't see that , i > that 's your biggest problem .
ED: I 'm gay .
JEFF: Well , I think we can build on this new honesty .
RECEPTIONIST: Leave your package at the desk .
WILLIAM: I 'm not a messenger . I 'm one of you writers . William Miller .
BEN: You 're William Miller ?
WILLIAM: Yep .
BEN: Oh baby .
JANN: We ca n't run this piece .
BEN: You obviously saw more than you wrote about . After eight days on the road with these guys .
DAVID FELTON: Did n't anything happen ?
JANN: And where are you in this piece ? What did you want to write ? Because this eads like what they wanted you to write .
BEN: What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success ?
JANN: We can push up Chet 's Who cover -
FACT CHECKER: Good 'cause it 's going to take me three days to get through this research . It 's all handwritten , on little slips . Plus , they all refer to woman as `` chicks . '' I mean , as a woman I have a problem with that . I know it 's a side issue .
DAVID FELTON: It 's a `` puff piece . '' you fell fo 'em . It happens . A relationship forms . You want them to like you . Happened with me and Charlie Manson . He was a very charming lively i > charismatic < /i
WILLIAM: Please let me finish it . Give me tonight to work on it .
FACT CHECKER: Chet 's piece is all fact-checked and eady .
JANN: Get some sleep . We 'll do another story sometime . We 'll get you a kill fee .
FACT CHECKER: His research is all on little bits of paper . Did I say that ?
WILLIAM: Ben . You told me to send what I had. < /i It 's not finished .
FACT CHECKER: That 's being charitable .
JANN: Let him use the big office . It 's where Hunter used to write .
FACT CHECKER: You can type .
WILLIAM: Yes . It took it in grade school. < /i
LESTER BANGS: Aw , man . You made friends with them ! booze they feed you . They want you to get drunk on feeling like you belong. < /i
WILLIAM: Well , it was fun .
LESTER BANGS: They make you feel cool . And hey . I met you . You are not `` cool . ''
WILLIAM: I know . Even when I though I was , I knew I was n't .
LESTER BANGS: That 's because we are uncool ! And while women will always be a problem fo guys like us , most of the great art in the world is about that very problem . Good-looking people have no spine ! Their art never lasts ! They get the girls , but we 're smarter. < /i
WILLIAM: I can really see that now .
LESTER BANGS: Yeah , great art is about conflict and pain and guilt and longing and love disguised as sex , and sex disguised as love and let 's face it , you got a ig head start .
WILLIAM: I 'm glad you were home .
LESTER BANGS: I 'm always home ! I 'm uncool ! < /i
WILLIAM: Me too !
LESTER BANGS: The only true currency in this bankrupt world if what we share with someone else when we 're uncool. < /i
WILLIAM: I feel bette
LESTER: My advice to you . I know you think those guys are your friends . You want to be a true friend to them ?
LESTER BANGS: Be honest and unmerciful. < /i You 're doing great . Call me later is you want . I 'm always up .
FELTON: Read me the opening line .
BEN: `` I am flying high over Tupelo , Mississippi , with America 's hottest and , and we are all about to die . ''
FELTON: Mmmmm . Dark . Lively. < /i
BEN: Yeah , and it gets better . Did this all really happen ?
FACT CHECKER: Give it to me . I 'll call and check the quotes .
JEFF: Look . Let 's just piece together ou information because the fact-checke asked us all about different parts of the story .
TONY: What did he write about ? What 's he using ?
JEFF: It . All . He 's using it all .
RUSSELL: So what ?
JEFF: So what ? We come off like amateurs some average band trying to come to grips , jealous and fighting and breaking up - we 're buffoons ! < /i
RUSSELL: Maybe we just do n't see ourselves the way we really are .
JEFF: He was supposed to be our friend .
RUSSELL: I told him to write what he wanted . All eyes look to Russell .
TONY: By the way , he has you on acid , screaming `` I Am A Golden God '' from a fan 's rooftop .
RUSSELL: Oh my God .
JEFF: They used him to fuck us .
RUSSELL: I did n't say `` Golden God . '' Or did I ?
DICK: We never took him seriously , and now it 's serious .
RUSSELL: I liked him as a person .
JEFF: He was never a `` person ! '' He was a journalist !
RUSSELL: You . You had the right idea all along . Ed silently nods thanks .
DENNIS HOPE: How about the plane flight ?
DICK: It 's all in there . But do n't worry , it 's all unspecific who say what . No names are mentioned in the more embarrassing sequences , it 's just i > completely obvious who 's who ! We 're fucked ! < /i Silence .
RUSSELL: I forgot he was there .
DENNIS HOPE: Well , they have n't talked to Russell - he can always deny the key stuff to the fact checker . Then they ca n't print it .
JEFF: Is that true ?
DENNIS HOPE: It 's war , my friend . If you 'd met me earlier , he would have never been on the around . Dennis hands Russell the phone . DENNIS HOPE He 'll live .
FACT CHECKER: The band just denied 90 % of the story . It 's a fabrication .
WILLIAM: Did you talk to Russell ? < /i
FACT CHECKER: Russell Hammond is the one who denied it .
BEN: Crazy .
FACT CHECKER: We 're going with the Who - !
SOMEONE'S VOICE: He 's just some fan what did you expect ?
FELTON: Well , I believe you .
WILLIAM: Goodbye . He exits .
FELTON: Powerful word . Strong . Final .
RUSSELL: I feel bad .
SAPPHIRE: Well , at least you feel . That puts you in a higher class of asshole .
RUSSELL: What did I do ?
SAPPHIRE: Well - you can do what the big boys do . Nothing .
RUSSELL: Yeah .
SAPPHIRE: You believe these new girls ? None of 'em take birth control , and they eat all the steak .
RUSSELL: Is Penny okay ?
SAPPHIRE: The Quaalude Incident . Yeah , it was n't pretty . She could have died . I always warned her about letting too many guys fall in love with her . I guess I was wrong . On of 'em saved her life . Russell nods .
RUSSELL: Well , it 's finally over with Leslie . I 'm going to call her .
SAPPHIRE: Let her retire . You want to lock her up in a house in Michigan ? Please. < /i Write her a song someday . She deserves it . Something about that girl brought out the best in a lot of pretty average people . She deserves it
DICK: Have a good vacation . I hope the band stays together . Before it all went down the shitter , it was starting to get really good .
RUSSELL: I 'm not going to blame myself . I do make people happy . They just should n't get to know me 'cause it appears to spoil everything .
SAPPHIRE: Do n't be so easy on yourself .
RUSSELL: What gives you the right to get this personal with me .
SAPPHIRE: Let 's not reminisce .
ANITA: William ?
FEMALE ATTENDANT: You have a good day ! Anita looks in her brother 's face .
ANITA: You look awful , but that 's great. < /i
WILLIAM: Yeah .
ANITA: Hey . I 'll take off work . Let 's have an adventure together . You and me , finally . Anywhere you want to go . Anywhere in the world .
WILLIAM: Just get me to my bed .
ANITA: I 'll deal with her .
ELAINE: I do n't know . Whatever happened to him , I just wish it could have happened to me .
ANITA: The magazine killed his story .
RUSSELL: Hi , I 'm Russel Hammond .
SECRETARY: You 're here regarding ?
RUSSELL: My life .
JANN: You denied most of the story .
RUSSELL: Yeah , well , here 's the problem with the truth . It 's too true -
BEN: Well , we appreciate the visit . The last time an artist came here , it was Buddy Miles and he punched me .
RUSSELL: I 'm not punching anybody . I am personally , as of 2 pm yesterday , on a voyage of self-reinvention . This is about William Miller . He lives with us , he lost his virginity , he saw us at our worst , appreciated our best , he saved two lives , including mine he smuggled about a half-pound of pot into Boston , and we never even told him -
JANN: It 's too late . We 're going with a different cover .
RUSSELL: Thank God .
BEN: Next time we 'll all be more professional .
RUSSELL: Maybe so . But God forbid , the day comes when selling yourself is as important as the music you make . You might have died at the right time , my friend .
JANN: Thank you for visiting . Good luck .
RUSSELL: Do what you want , but the story is true .
ANITA: They 're called pancakes . Who knows when we 'll be together again . Splurge . It 's what most people call breakfast .
ELAINE: I went through your records . And I found a song to play for you .
SHERIFF: What 's going on , Adams ?
DEPUTY ADAMS: Twenty kids live at this orphanage , Sheriff . All twenty have gone missing .
SISTER CLARA: After the power went out , I went to check on the children . But their beds were empty . Every one of them . They just disappeared
DEPUTY ADAMS: Are you okay , son ? Are the other kids around here ?
YOUNG EDWARD: I do n't know I do n't remember
DEPUTY ADAMS: Why do n't we start with your name ? Do you emember your name ?
YOUNG EDWARD: Edward Edward Carnby .
SMALL BOY: Did you have a nightmare ?
CARNBY: Your mother is wrong . Being afraid of the dark is what keeps most of us alive .
SMALL BOY: Everybody else tells me not to be afraid .
CARNBY: That 's because they do n't know the truth .
CABBIE: You travel light .
CARNBY: Trust me , I 'm carrying enough baggage fo the both of us .
CABBIE: That 's pretty funny , man . What do you do ?
CARNBY: You really want to know ?
CABBIE: Yeah , man . Hearing about my passengers ' lives keeps the job interesting .
CARNBY: I 'm a paranormal investigator .
CABBIE: Get the fuck outta here !
CARNBY: I 'm an effective solution to unusual problems .
CABBIE: No shit ? Want me to lose him ?
CARNBY: If you can
CABBIE: I 'm trapped , man !
CARNBY: I 'll draw him away
BEAT COP: Hey !
GUARD: Got another delivery , Ms. Cedrac .
ALINE: I do n't have anything scheduled . What museum was it transferred from ?
DELIVERY GUY: For Dr. Hudgens , from Dr. Hudgens .
ALINE: It 's probably an error . It must be fo the big Abkani show .
DELIVERY GUY: Abkani ? What the hell 's Abkani ?
GUARD: Ancient Native American civilization . They were this super-advanced culture , ut something like ten thousand years ago , they just disappeared .
LINE: You 've been reading up .
GUARD: Not much else to do around here at night .
DELIVERY GUY: Says here it 's not to be opened by anyone ut Dr. Hudgens .
GUARD: This is Aline Cedrac . She 's the assistant curator .
ALINE: We 've got Abkani artifacts coming in from museums around the world . Until Hudgens gets back , I 'm doing all the cataloguing anyway .
GUARD: Where is Hudgens anyway ? The show opens in a few days .
ALINE: Off on another archeological goosechase . He thinks he 's finally found the Erebus .
GUARD: So he sticks you with the work . At least it keeps your mind off your boyfriend .
LINE: I 'll be in my office if you need me .
DELIVERY GUY: What was that all about ?
GUARD: Damn it I should n't have said that . Her boyfriend 's been missing for the last three months .
DELIVERY GUY: Nice going , jack-ass .
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: They say a sunken ship is like a grave . It should never be disturbed .
HUDGENS: I 've been searching for the Erebus fo twenty years , Captain . Now that I 've found it , I 'm afraid your ill-informed superstitions are n't enough to stop me .
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: Do n't you want to open it ? Make sure it 's what you 're looking for ?
HUDGENS: The conditions must be perfect . Otherwise , there will be consequences .
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: Is this made of solid gold ?
HUDGENS: Did you know the Abkani were the first civilization to use gold for thei valuables ? They believed it held the power to contain evil spirits . Thousands of years later , we do n't even remembe why gold was valuable to us in the first place . Now , let 's load it onto the truck .
ALINE: The pictograms are late-period Abkani . It seems to be some sort of prophecy . Shadows that make ghosts of men . The world of light consumed by darkness . This is the first indication I 've ever seen that the Abkani had a myth about the end of the world .
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: If the container 's made of gold , whatever 's inside must be worth a fortune .
HUDGENS: You have no idea
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: But I 'm looking forward to finding out .
HUDGENS: I suppose one should not be surprised when mercenaries act mercenary .
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: The only mistake would be letting you walk out with whatever 's in there . Barnes
HUDGENS: Captain ! Do n't open it !
APTAIN CHERNICK: Let 's see what all the fuss is about
LINDA: John ?
HUDGENS: They 're faster than I thought
CAPTAIN CHERNICK: Kill him .
BURKE: his better be good , Miles .
AGENT MILES: Sir , we 're getting some strange readings in the control room .
BURKE: his is Bureau 713 . `` Strange '' does n't even crack my radar . Now what 's the situation ?
AGENT MILES: Well , sir , normal levels of paranormal activity range from three to five
BURKE: condescending ) Yes Miles . And what level are the sensors picking up now ?
AGENT MILES: We do n't know .
BURKE: What are we looking at , Krashinsky ?
KRASH: Electromagnetics off the scale , Commander .
AGENT YONEK: Recalibrating sensors now , sir .
SISTER CLARA: Still having trouble sleeping , Edward ? You ca n't stay up all night , you know .
YOUNG EDWARD: Sister , something 's happened .
SISTER CLARA: What is it , Edward ?
YOUNG EDWARD: They 're not gone anymore . The others are ack .
CARNBY: Hello ?
CARNBY: I 'll figure this out , Linda . I 'll find John .
LINDA: Edward you 've known each other since you were kids . Did he did he tell you he was leaving me ?
CARNBY: Of course not .
LINDA: Then where is he , Edward ? What 's going on ?
SISTER CLARA: Welcome home , Edward .
SOPHIE: Should I make some tea ?
SISTER CLARA: Yes . Thank you , Sophie .
CARNBY: Sister John disappeared last night . And something happened to me as well .
SISTER CLARA: It 's happening again .
CARNBY: I need your help , Sister . I need to find the others .
SISTER CLARA: I 'll get their files .
CARNBY: I 'll let you know as soon as I hea something .
FISCHER: Why did I agree to this ?
CARNBY: I ordered for you , Fischer . It 's pecan .
FISCHER: You 've got a good memory , Carnby .
CARNBY: That means all nineteen are missing .
FISCHER: I ran full cross-references . Nothing much in common between them . Except they all grew up in the same orphanage . You orphanage . What 's going on , Carnby ?
CARNBY: That 's what I 'm trying to find out .
ALINE: Hello ?
ALINE: I was only going to catalogue it for you .
GUARD: There 's somebody here to see you .
ALINE: Edward
CARNBY: I missed you too .
ALINE: I thought you were dead , you asshole !
CARNBY: Aline let me explain . In private .
ALINE: Give me one reason why I 'd ever want to speak to you again ?
CARNBY: Five minutes , Aline . I 'll tell you everything .
ALINE: And how did you end up with it ?
CARNBY: I asked very nicely .
ALINE: You should 've called , Edward . Or written . Just to let me know you were alive .
CARNBY: Does it make any sense to you ?
ALINE: Yesterday , maybe not . But something happened last night .
CARNBY: Ten thousand years ago , it would 've been like burying them at the ends of the earth .
ALINE: The Abkani 's written language is based on pictograms . Combinations of symbols to create different meanings . But there 's one here I 've never seen before .
CARNBY: You 're not trying to seduce me , are you ?
ALINE: Give me that .
ALINE: What is it ?
CARNBY: Hairs on the back of my neck just stood up .
ALINE: How come every time you show up , my life gets complicated ?
CARNBY: I could ask you the same thing .
CARNBY: I think we 'd better run
CARNBY: Ca n't hold it
ALINE: No ! Why did n't you ask me that before you pushed me in here ?
AGENT BARR: Reading two xenos .
AGENT CHEUNG: There !
AGENT BARR: Cheung ! Marko ! Do n't let them get away !
KRASH: Readings gone . You lost them , Barr .
BURKE: I want a full security sweep . Miles , get Fischer to send his sci-and-spy boys down here . Now go .
CARNBY: Hey Richie .
BURKE: It 's Commander Burke . This is my unit .
ALINE: They saved our lives .
BURKE: You used to be able to take care of yourself , Carnby . Gotten soft since you left 713 ?
AGENT MILES: Ms. Cedrac , I 'm Agent Miles . This is Commander Burke .
BURKE: Aline Cedrac . Pleasure to meet you . How 's the Ph.D. coming along ?
ALINE: It 's fine . Thanks .
BURKE: Miles , get her to a medic .
CARNBY: I 'll catch up .
BURKE: Why am I still looking at you ?
CARNBY: I need to know what those things are .
BURKE: That information 's classified . If you were still an agent , you 'd already know . But since you 're not , stay out of my way .
CARNBY: I 'm asking nicely .
BURKE: Get him out of here !
CARNBY: You 're right , Commander . I guess I have gone soft .
ALINE: I want to finish studying those artifacts .
CARNBY: I need to find out what 's happened to John and the others . Stay in contact . We 'll meet up later .
ALINE: Commander , I need to get to my office .
BURKE: The museum 's quarantined until we 're done .
ALINE: At least let me pack up my work . There 's priceless artifacts in there . If they get damaged
BURKE: If you notice anything out of the ordinary , let me know immediately .
ALINE: I do n't think I want to know you definition of out of the ordinary .
FISCHER: You should n't be here , Carnby .
CARNBY: I 'm not here . Commander Burke is . Now what the hell is that thing inside him ?
FISCHER: Your curiosity have anything to do with the fingerprint of yours I found on his corpse ?
CARNBY: The list of people I trust is short , Fischer . Is it about to get shorter ?
FISCHER: Yeah , we got dentals . Agent James Pinkerton . He 's ex-713 .
CARNBY: He was an agent ? When ?
FISCHER: Went MIA twenty years ago . Presumed dead . I 'm trying to get more intell , but his ecords are so classified , they 're practically invisible .
CARNBY: It 's fused with his nervous system .
FISCHER: I 've never seen this kind of symbiosis efore .
ALINE: Dr. Hudgens . When did you get back ?
HUDGENS: A few hours ago . I heard there was some excitement . Are you alright ?
ALINE: I 'm fine . A bit shaken up . But fine .
HUDGENS: I apologize for snapping at you earlier . Now , what are you still doing here afte all you 've been through ?
ALINE: Edward .
HUDGENS: This is a major find . I 'll need to analyze it . Confirm its authenticity .
ALINE: I can do that myself .
HUDGENS: That was n't a request
AGENT CHEUNG: Ms. Cedrac 's security detail .
HUDGENS: My dear , do you have any idea who I
AGENT CHEUNG: Dr. Lionel Hudgens . Former agent , sci-and- spy division . Currently 713 adviso status . I know exactly who you are . But I 'm not your `` dear '' anything .
HUDGENS: I 'll just have to hold off my curiosity until morning .
ALINE: Dr. Hudgens I forgot to ask . Did you find the Erebus this time ?
HUDGENS: Just an empty shipwreck . You were right . It was another wild goosechase .
ALINE: Since when do I have a security detail ?
AGENT CHEUNG: Since it seemed like you needed it .
FISCHER: There 's one inside you too . But the symbiosis is incomplete .
CARNBY: Can you remove it ?
FISCHER: I could try . But it might paralyze you .
ALINE: What 's missing
CARNBY: I 'm not much for coincidences . These organisms must be connected to those things from the museum .
FISCHER: We call them xenomorphs .
CARNBY: Catchy . When did they first appear ?
FISCHER: Two years ago . They 've been 713 's top priority ever since . But it 's been almost exclusively in rural areas . This kind of urban infiltration is unprecedented .
CARNBY: Have you isolated any weaknesses ?
FISCHER: Most metals pass right through them . So normal bullets and blades are useless . But they 're vulnerable to elements 76 to 79 . Osmium , iridium , platinum , and gold . Negates their ability to disrupt electricity .
CARNBY: If they disrupt electricity , why did my flashlight still work ?
FISCHER: The closer the current to its powe source , the less disruption .
CARNBY: I 'm going to need a lot of those .
CARNBY: Five minutes
LINE: Edward ?
BURKE: Have you been meeting with Carnby ?
FISCHER: Yes . He 's got intell we need . And I trust him .
URKE: We 've got to trust each other , Fischer . Are you with us or not ?
BURKE: All the intell you 've got on Edward Carnby .
FISCHER: What else could I do ? I had to tell him .
SARAH FISCHER: You did the right thing , Paul . From what you 've told me , Carnby can take care of himself .
FISCHER: Sarah ? Answer me ! Sarah !
HUDGENS: If you ca n't beat us , Fischer , join us .
ALINE: Something smells amazing .
CARNBY: I know .
ALINE: I figured out a connection with the symbols on those artifacts . They correspond to constellations . But something 's missing .
CARNBY: Maybe this will help
ALINE: Can you run the program on this ?
CARNBY: What are we looking for ?
ALINE: The Abkani used constellations to pin- point a geographical location . But I do n't think I can isolate it closer than a hundred mile radius .
CARNBY: Yeah . That 's us right there .
CARNBY: John ?
ALINE: That looked like John .
CARNBY: It is . The other two are from the orphanage as well .
ALINE: You had no choice .
CARNBY: Something 's controlling them .
ALINE: How many are there altogether ?
CARNBY: Twenty . Including me .
KRASH: Multiple readings confirmed . Back-up 's on the way .
CARNBY: Aline !
AGENT BARR: We 're clear , sir .
BURKE: Love what you 've done with the place , Carnby .
AGENT MILES: Sir , this one 's infected too !
AGENT TURNER: Got another one here !
BURKE: Drop your weapon and get down on the ground .
ALINE: What are you doing ?
BURKE: He 's been infected with some kind of organism . He could be under its control .
CARNBY: It 's true . I 've got one inside me . But it 's not controlling me .
BURKE: You 'll excuse me if I do n't take you word for it . Now drop your weapon .
AGENT TURNER: Get out of the way !
ALINE: He 's not one of them .
URKE: If I 've got to shoot through you to get to him , I 'll do it .
CARNBY: Why are the lights still out ?
AGENT BARR: Scanner 's clear .
BURKE: Forget to pay your power bill , Carnby ?
ALINE: What does Hudgens have to do with this ?
BURKE: That 's what I want to find out . I need you both to brief me in the air .
KRASH: We 're practically off the scale , Commander . This is unprecedented . Should I initiate Contingency Nine-Alpha ?
AGENT MILES: We 've got three perimeters of flash- mines . Gatling guns are set to electromagnetic motion tracking . And every available agent in the vicinity is here . But Commander
BURKE: I know , Miles . But back-up wo n't make it efore sunrise .
AGENT TURNER: Generator will be on-line shortly , sir .
ALINE: It looks like you 're going to war .
BURKE: We are . The highest xeno concentration on ecord is closing in on this location . This could be our chance to wipe them out once and for all .
CARNBY: We need to go down there .
BURKE: What ?
CARNBY: They 're coming here for a reason . Until we know what they 're after , we 're neve eally going to be able to stop them .
AGENT MILES: Something 's definitely down there , sir . But there 's too much interference to get a clear reading from here .
BURKE: Goddamn it . Miles , you 're in charge of perimeter defense . Nothing gets in or out until we find out what 's down there .
ALINE: I 've been thinking about something . The Abkani prophecy . The shadows that make ghosts of men
CARNBY: Every culture has a story about the end of the world .
ALINE: But not every story starts to come true .
AGENT BARR: It 's definitely this way , sir .
BURKE: It 's a dead end .
AGENT BARR: Readings are getting stronger .
BURKE: We 'll double-back . Take another tunnel .
CARNBY: Wait . Aline , look at this
ALINE: They 're Abkani .
AGENT CHEUNG: There 's more over here .
AGENT BARR: What do you got , Marko ?
BURKE: We 've got to get down there .
AGENT FEENSTRA: How long do we have to hold them ?
AGENT MILES: Only until dawn .
AGENT FEENSTRA: Sir that 's four hours away .
AGENT MILES: I know .
AGENT MILES: Incoming !
AGENT TURNER: The generator 's not coming on-line . They must be disrupting it .
CARNBY: Aline !
BURKE: Cheung ! Cut the line !
ALINE: It 's a warning .
CARNBY: Subtle .
ALINE: The gist of it is , even if you make it down here alive , you 're already dead .
AGENT MILES: Hold your fire until they 're at the second perimeter .
CARNBY: Aline !
BURKE: We 've got to get up there .
GENT TURNER: Hit it .
AGENT FEENSTRA: We made it , sir .
AGENT TURNER: Fischer ?
ALINE: Maybe this is what they look like when they grow outside a human host ?
BURKE: I think you 'd better see this .
AGENT MILES: Feenstra !
ALINE: The Abkani did n't put this here .
GENT BARR: There 's no way through .
BURKE: There 's always a way
AGENT FEENSTRA: I 'm out .
AGENT MILES: Last one .
AGENT FEENSTRA: I ca n't walk . If I lay down suppressing fire , maybe you can make it out of here .
AGENT MILES: I die fighting or I do n't die at all .
ALINE: You sure this is going to work ?
CARNBY: This is where it happened .
AGENT BARR: Commander
ALINE: Edward , look
CARNBY: So it 's a key .
ALINE: The pictograms carved here make it pretty clear that 's a bad idea .
BURKE: Two , we set enough C-4 to bury this place . Keep whatever 's in there , down here for good .
CARNBY: The answers I 've been looking for my whole life could be in there .
ALINE: Some doors are locked for a reason .
CARNBY: Barr how much C-4 you got left ?
AGENT BARR: Enough to blow this place to
HUDGENS: I 'm afraid I ca n't allow that .
HUDGENS: Our early work was crude , I admit . But eventually we perfected the implant process . You were our last failure , Carnby . If you had n't escaped , 713 neve would 've shut down the experiments . Burke 's eyes flash with anger .
BURKE: There 's no way this was sanctioned .
HUDGENS: Before your kind took over , 713 had very different priorities . Now , you just laze in and destroy everything before we can learn to control it . I 've wasted twenty years working in secret because of short-sighted men like you .
CARNBY: Aline
HUDGENS: You could n't have opened it anyway . Not without this
LINE: These doors wo n't hold them for long
BURKE: Once we get out , we can remote detonate .
CARNBY: Look at the dust on the floor . This is where Hudgens got in .
CARNBY: Over there !
BURKE: The remote detonator 's inactive . The signal ca n't get through .
CARNBY: We 'll find a way .
URKE: You saved my life , Carnby . I do n't much like debts .
CARNBY: Burke !
ALINE: Edward if he detonates those charges , we 're all dead .
CARNBY: They were under us the whole time .
ALINE: Where are all the children ?
CARNBY: Something 's very wrong
ALINE: Edward what 's going on ?
CARNBY: Remember what Hudgens said ? I was his last failure . He said he perfected the implant process .
ALINE: It ca n't be
CARNBY: Then where the hell is everybody ? Where 's everybody gone ?
ALINE: Yes Edward ?
CARNBY: It 's going to be a busy day .
OLD SALIERI: Mozart ! Mozart ! Mozart . Forgive me ! Forgive your assassin ! Mozart !
VALET: Open the door , Signore ! Please ! Be good now ! We 've brought you something special . Something you 're going to love . Silence .
OLD SALIERI: Mozart ! Mozart ! I confess it ! Listen ! I confess !
VALET: That 's all right , Signore ! He heard you ! He forgave you ! He wants you to go inside now and shut the window !
BYSTANDER: Who is that ?
VALET: No one , sir . He 'll be all right . Poor man . He 's a little unhappy , you know .
DOCTOR GULDEN: He 's going to live . It 's much harde to cut your throat than most people imagine . They stop outside a door .
VOGLER: No , Doctor . Thank you . Vogler nods and opens the door .
OLD SALIERI: What do you want ?
VOGLER: I am Father Vogler . I am a Chaplain here . I thought you might like to talk to someone .
OLD SALIERI: About what ?
VOGLER: You tried to take your life . You do emember that , do n't you ?
OLD SALIERI: So ?
VOGLER: In the sight of God that is a sin .
OLD SALIERI: What do you want ?
VOGLER: Do you understand that you have sinned ? Gravely .
OLD SALIERI: Leave me alone .
VOGLER: I can not leave alone a soul in pain .
OLD SALIERI: Do you know who I am ? You never heard of me , did you ?
VOGLER: That makes no difference . All men are equal in God 's eyes .
OLD SALIERI: Are they ?
VOGLER: Offer me your confession . I can offe you God 's forgiveness .
OLD SALIERI: I do not seek forgiveness .
VOGLER: My son , there is something dreadful on your soul . Unburden it to me . I 'm here only for you . Please talk to me .
OLD SALIERI: How well are you trained in music ?
VOGLER: I know a little . I studied it in my youth .
OLD SALIERI: Where ?
VOGLER: Here in Vienna .
OLD SALIERI: Then you must know this .
VOGLER: I ca n't say I do . What is it ?
OLD SALIERI: I 'm surprised you do n't know . It was a very popular tune in its day . I wrote it . How about this ? He plays another tune .
VOGLER: I regret it is not too familiar .
OLD SALIERI: Can you recall no melody of mine ? I was the most famous composer in Europe when you were still a boy . I wrote forty operas alone . What about this little thing ?
VOGLER: Oh , I know that ! That 's charming ! I did n't know you wrote that .
OLD SALIERI: I did n't . That was Mozart . Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart . You know who that is ?
VOGLER: Of course . The man you accuse yourself of killing .
OLD SALIERI: Ah - you 've heard that ?
VOGLER: All Vienna has heard that .
OLD SALIERI: And do they believe it ?
VOGLER: Is it true ?
OLD SALIERI: Do you believe it ?
VOGLER: Should I ?
OLD SALIERI: He was murdered , Father ! Mozart ! Cruelly murdered . Pause .
VOGLER: Yes ? Did you do it ?
OLD SALIERI: He was my idol ! I ca n't remember a time when I did n't know his name ! When I was only fourteen he was already famous . Even in Legnago - the tiniest town in Italy - I knew of him .
ARCO: Mozart is not here .
COLLOREDO: Where is he ?
ARCO: They 're looking for him , Your Grace .
COLLOREDO: We 'll start without him .
MOZART: Miaouw ! Miaouw ! Mouse-wouse ? It 's Puss-wuss , fangs-wangs . Paws-claws . Pounce-bounce !
CONSTANZE: Stop it . Stop it ! They roll on the floor . He tickles her .
MOZART: I am ! I am ! I 'm stopping it - slowly . You see ! Look , I 've stopped . Now we are going back . He tries to drag her back under the table .
CONSTANZE: No ! No ! No !
MOZART: Yes ! Back ! Back ! Listen - do n't you know where you are ?
CONSTANZE: Where ?
MOZART: We are in the Residence of the Fartsbishop of Salzburg .
CONSTANZE: Fartsbishop !
MOZART: Go ahead , tell him . Tell them all . They wo n't understand you anyway .
CONSTANZE: Why not ?
MOZART: Because here everything goes ackwards . People walk backwards , dance backwards , sing backwards , and talk backwards .
CONSTANZE: That 's stupid .
MOZART: Why ? People fart backwards .
CONSTANZE: Do you think that 's funny ?
MOZART: Yes , I think it 's brilliant . You 've een doing it for years . He gives a high pitched giggle .
CONSTANZE: Oh , ha , ha , ha .
MOZART: Sra-I'm-sick ! Sra-I 'm sick !
CONSTANZE: Yes , you are . You 're very sick .
MOZART: No , no . Say it backwards , shit-wit . Sra-I'm-sick Say it backwards !
CONSTANZE: Sra-I'm-sick . Sick - kiss I 'm - my Kiss my ! Sra-I'm-sick - Kiss my arse !
MOZART: Em iram ! Em iram !
CONSTANZE: No , I 'm not playing this game .
MOZART: No , this is serious . Say it backwards .
CONSTANZE: No !
MOZART: Just say it - you 'll see . It 's very serious . Em iram ! Em iram !
CONSTANZE: Iram - marry Em - marry me ! No , no ! You 're a fiend . I 'm not going to marry a fiend . A dirty fiend at that .
MOZART: Ui-vol-i-tub !
CONSTANZE: Tub - but i-tub - but I vol - love ut I love ui - You . I love you !
MOZART: Tish-I 'm tee . What 's that ?
CONSTANZE: What ?
MOZART: Tish-I'm-tee .
CONSTANZE: Eat
MOZART: Yes .
CONSTANZE: Eat my - ah !
MOZART: My music ! They 've started ! They 've started without me !
ARCO: Follow me , please . The Archbishop would like a word .
MOZART: Certainly !
ARCO: Indeed .
MOZART: These Viennese certainly know good music when they hear it .
ARCO: His Grace is very angry with you .
MOZART: What do you mean ?
ARCO: You are to come in here and ask his pardon . Arco opens the door .
COLLOREDO: Ah , Mozart . Why ?
MOZART: Why what , sir ?
COLLOREDO: Why do I have to be humiliated in front of my guests by one of my own servants ?
MOZART: Humiliated ?
COLLOREDO: How much provocation am I to endure from you ? The more license I allow you , the more you take .
MOZART: If His Grace is not satisfied with me , he can dismiss me .
COLLOREDO: I wish you to return immediately to Salzburg . Your father is waiting fo you there patiently . I will speak to you further when I come .
MOZART: No , Your Grace ! I mean with all humility , no . I would rather you dismissed me . It 's obvious I do n't satisfy .
COLLOREDO: Then try harder , Mozart . I have no intention of dismissing you . You will remain in my service and learn your place . Go now .
MOZART: Excuse me !
OLD SALIERI: Why ? Would God choose an obscene child to be His instrument ? It was not to be believed ! This piece had to be an accident . It had to be !
JOSEPH: How good is he , this Mozart ?
VON SWIETEN: He 's remarkable , Majesty . I heard an extraordinary serious opera of his last month . Idomeneo , King of Crete .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Well then , we should make some effort to acquire him . We could use a good German composer in Vienna , surely ?
VON STRACK: I agree , Majesty , but I 'm afraid it 's not possible . The young man is still in the pay of the Archbishop .
JOSEPH: Very small pay , I imagine . I 'm sure he could be tempted with the right offer . Say , an opera in German fo our National Theatre .
VON SWIETEN: Excellent , sire !
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . What do you say , Chamberlain ?
VON STRACK: In my opinion , it is time we had a piece in our own language , sir . Plain German . For plain people . He looks defiantly at Orsini-Rosenberg .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Kapellmeister ?
BONNO: Majesty , I must agree with He Dirretore . Opera is an Italian art , solamente . German is - scusate - too uta for singing , too rough .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Court Composer , what do you say ?
SALIERI: I think it is an interesting notion to keep Mozart in Vienna , Majesty . It should really infuriate the Archbishop beyond measure - if that is your Majesty 's intention .
JOSEPH: You are cattivo , Court Composer . I want to meet this young man . Chamberlain , arrange a pleasant welcome for him .
VON STRACK: Yes , sir .
JOSEPH: Well . There it is .
SALIERI: Si .
LORL: Good morning , sir .
SALIERI: What have you got for me today ? Let me see .
LORL: I will , sir . He takes a biscuit and eats .
SALIERI: Thank you . Are you well today , Fraulein Lorl ?
LORL: Yes , thank you , sir .
SALIERI: Bene ! Bene !
MOZART: And the other one ?
JOSEPH: Good , good , good .
VON STRACK: Your Majesty , Herr Mozart -
JOSEPH: Yes , what about him ?
VON STRACK: He 's here .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Well . There it is . Good .
SALIERI: Majesty , I hope you wo n't think it improper , but I have written a little March of Welcome in his honour . He produces a paper .
JOSEPH: What a charming idea . May I see ?
SALIERI: It 's just a trifle , of course .
JOSEPH: May I try it ?
SALIERI: Majesty .
JOSEPH: Delightful , Court Composer . Would you permit me to play it as he comes in ?
SALIERI: You do me too much honour , Sire .
JOSEPH: Let 's have some fun . Bring in Herr Mozart , please . But slowly , slowly . I need a minute to practice .
SALIERI: A-flat , Majesty .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha !
MAJORDOMO: Herr Mozart .
VON STRACK: Well done , Sire !
JOSEPH: Gentlemen , gentlemen , a little less enthusiasm , I beg you . Ah , Mozart .
MOZART: Your Majesty !
JOSEPH: No , no , please ! It is not a holy elic . You know we have met already ? In this very room . Perhaps you wo n't emember it , you were only six years old . He was giving the most brilliant little concert here . As he got off the stool , he slipped and fell . My sister Antoinette helped him up herself , and do you know what he did ? Jumped straight into her arms and said , Will you marry me , yes o no ?
VON SWIETEN: I 'm a great admirer of yours , young man . Welcome .
MOZART: Oh , thank you .
JOSEPH: The Director of our Opera . Count Orsini-Rosenberg .
MOZART: Oh sir , yes ! The honour is mine . Absolutely . Orsini-Rosenberg nods without enthusiasm .
JOSEPH: And here is our illustrious Court Composer , Herr Salieri .
SALIERI: Finally ! Such an immense joy . Diletto straordinario !
MOZART: I know your work well , Signore . Do you know I actually composed some variations on a melody of yours ?
SALIERI: Really ?
MOZART: Mio caro Adone .
SALIERI: Ah !
MOZART: A funny little tune , but it yielded some good things .
JOSEPH: And now he has returned the compliment . Herr Salieri composed that March of Welcome for you .
MOZART: Really ? Oh , grazie , Signore ! Sono commosso ! E un onore per mo eccezionale . Compositore brilliante e famossissimo !
SALIERI: My pleasure .
JOSEPH: Well , there it is . Now to business . Young man , we are going to commission an opera from you . What do you say ?
MOZART: Majesty !
JOSEPH: Did we vote in the end for German o Italian ?
VON STRACK: Did we ?
VON SWIETEN: I do n't think it was really decided , Director .
MOZART: Oh , German ! German ! Please let it be German .
JOSEPH: Why so ?
MOZART: Because I 've already found the most wonderful libretto !
JOSEPH: Well , what is it about ? Tell us the story .
MOZART: It 's actually quite amusing , Majesty . It 's set - the whole thing is set in a - in a - He stops short with a little giggle .
JOSEPH: Yes , where ?
MOZART: In a Pasha 's Harem , Majesty . A Seraglio .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha .
MOZART: Exactly .
VON SWIETEN: My dear fellow , the language is not finally the point . Do you really think that subject is quite appropriate for a national theatre ?
MOZART: Why not ? It 's charming . I mean , I do n't actually show concubines exposing their ! their ! It 's not indecent ! It 's highly moral , Majesty . It 's full of proper German virtues . I swear it . Absolutely !
JOSEPH: Well , I 'm glad to hear that .
SALIERI: Excuse me , Sire , but what do you think these could be ? Being a foreigner , I would love to learn .
JOSEPH: Cattivo again , Court Composer . Well , tell him , Mozart . Name us a German virtue .
MOZART: Love , Sire !
SALIERI: Ah , love ! Well of course in Italy we know nothing about that .
MOZART: No , I do n't think you do . I mean watching Italian opera , all those male sopranos screeching . Stupid fat couples rolling their eyes about ! That 's not love - it 's just rubbish .
JOSEPH: Well , there it is . Let it be German .
MOZART: Keep it , Sire , if you want to . It is already here in my head .
JOSEPH: What ? On one hearing only ?
MOZART: I think so , Sire , yes . Pause .
JOSEPH: Show me .
MOZART: The rest is just the same , is n't it ?
SALIERI: Grazie , Signore .
LORL: Madame Cavalieri is here for he lesson , sir .
SALIERI: Bene . He gets up and enters
CAVALIERI: Maestro .
SALIERI: Good morning .
CAVALIERI: Well ? How do you like it ? It 's Turkish . My hairdresser tells me everything 's going to be Turkish this year !
SALIERI: Really ? What else did he tell you today ? Give me some gossip .
CAVALIERI: Well , I heard you met Herr Mozart .
SALIERI: Oh ? News travels fast in Vienna .
CAVALIERI: And he 's been commissioned to write an opera . Is it true ?
SALIERI: Yes .
CAVALIERI: Is there a part for me ?
SALIERI: No .
CAVALIERI: How do you know ?
SALIERI: Well even if there is , I do n't think you want to get involved with this one .
CAVALIERI: Why not ?
SALIERI: Well , do you know where it 's set , my dear ?
CAVALIERI: Where ?
SALIERI: In a harem .
CAVALIERI: What 's that ?
SALIERI: A brothel .
CAVALIERI: Oh !
SALIERI: A Turkish brothel .
CAVALIERI: Turkish ? Oh , if it 's Turkish , that 's different . I want to be in it .
SALIERI: My dear , it will hardly enhance you eputation to be celebrated throughout Vienna as a singing prostitute for a Turk . He seats himself at the forte-piano .
CAVALIERI: Oh . Well perhaps you could introduce us anyway .
SALIERI: Perhaps .
CAVALIERI: What does he look like ?
SALIERI: You might be disappointed .
CAVALIERI: Why ?
SALIERI: Looks and talent do n't always go together , Katherina .
CAVALIERI: Looks do n't concern me , Maestro . Only talent interests a woman of taste .
OLD SALIERI: Understand , I was in love with the girl . Or at least in lust . I was n't a saint . It took me the most tremendous effort to be faithful to my vow . I swear to you I never laid a finger on her . All the same , I could n't bear to think of anyone else touching her - least of all the Creature .
JOSEPH: Bravo , Madame . You are an ornament to our stage .
CAVALIERI: Majesty .
JOSEPH: And to you , Court Composer . You pupil has done you great credit .
MADAME WEBER: Let us pass , please ! Let us pass at once ! We 're with the Emperor .
FLUNKY: I am sorry , Madame . It is not permitted .
MADAME WEBER: Do you know who I am ? This is my daughter . I am Frau Weber . We are favoured guests !
FLUNKY: I am sorry , Madame , but I have my orders .
MADAME WEBER: Call Herr Mozart ! You call Herr Mozart immediately ! This is insupportable !
CONSTANZE: Mother , please !
MADAME WEBER: Go ahead , Constanze . Just ignore this fellow . Go ahead , dear !
FLUNKY: I am sorry , Madame , but no ! I can not let anyone pass .
MADAME WEBER: Young man , I am no stranger to theatres . I 'm no stranger to insolence !
JOSEPH: Well , Herr Mozart ! A good effort . Decidedly that . An excellent effort ! You 've shown us something quite new today . Mozart bows frantically he is over-excited .
MOZART: It is new , it is , is n't it , Sire ?
JOSEPH: Yes , indeed .
MOZART: And German ?
JOSEPH: Oh , yes . Absolutely . German . Unquestionably !
MOZART: So then you like it ? You really like it , Your Majesty ?
JOSEPH: Of course I do . It 's very good . Of course now and then - just now and then - it gets a touch elaborate .
MOZART: What do you mean , Sire ?
JOSEPH: Well , I mean occasionally it seems to have , how shall one say ? How shall one say , Director ?
MOZART: I do n't understand . There are just as many notes , Majesty , as are equired . Neither more nor less .
JOSEPH: My dear fellow , there are in fact only so many notes the ear can hea in the course of an evening . I think I 'm right in saying that , are n't I , Court Composer ?
SALIERI: Yes ! yes ! er , on the whole , yes , Majesty .
MOZART: But this is absurd !
JOSEPH: My dear , young man , do n't take it too hard . Your work is ingenious . It 's quality work . And there are simply too many notes , that 's all . Cut a few and it will be perfect .
MOZART: Which few did you have in mind , Majesty ? Pause . General embarrassment .
JOSEPH: Well . There it is .
MADAME WEBER: Wolfi ! Wolfi , my dear !
MOZART: Majesty , this is Madame Weber . She is my landlady .
JOSEPH: Enchanted , Madame .
MADAME WEBER: Oh , Sire ! such an honour ! And , and , and these are my dear daughters . This is Constanze . She is the fiancee of Herr Mozart .
JOSEPH: Really ? How delightful . May I ask when you marry ?
MOZART: Well - Well we have n't quite received my father 's consent , Your Majesty . Not entirely . Not altogether . He giggles uncomfortably .
JOSEPH: Excuse me , but how old are you ?
MOZART: Twenty-six .
JOSEPH: Well , my advice is to marry this charming young lady and stay with us in Vienna .
MADAME WEBER: You see ? You see ? I 've told him that , Your Majesty , but he wo n't listen to me .
JOSEPH: Well . There it is . Strack .
CONSTANZE: Get some water !
MOZART: Katherina ! I 'll tell you what I 'm going to do . I 'm going to write another aria for you . Something even more amazing for the second act . I have to get some water . Her mothe is lying on the stage .
CAVALIERI: Do n't bother !
MOZART: What ?
CAVALIERI: Do n't bother .
MOZART: I 'll be right back . He dashes off .
CONSTANZE: Are you all right ?
MADAME WEBER: Ah , what an evening ! What a wise man we have for an Emperor . Oh , my children ! Now I want you to write your fathe exactly what His Majesty said . The activity continues to swirl around them .
MOZART: You should really go home now , Frau Weber . Your carriage must be waiting .
MADAME WEBER: But are n't you taking us ?
MOZART: I have to talk to the singers .
MADAME WEBER: That 's all right ; we 'll wait fo you . Just do n't take all night .
CAVALIERI: Did you know ? Had you heard ?
SALIERI: What ?
CAVALIERI: The marriage !
SALIERI: Well , what does it matter to you ?
CAVALIERI: Nothing ! He can marry who he pleases . I do n't give a damn .
SALIERI: You were sublime .
CAVALIERI: What did you think of the music ?
SALIERI: Extremely clever .
CAVALIERI: Meaning you did n't like it . Mozart comes in unexpectedly .
MOZART: Oh - excuse me !
CAVALIERI: Is her mother still lying on the floor ?
MOZART: No , she 's fine .
CAVALIERI: I 'm so relieved .
SALIERI: Dear Mozart , my sincere congratulations .
MOZART: Did you like it , then ?
SALIERI: How could I not ?
MOZART: It really is the best music one can hear in Vienna today . Do n't you agree ?
CAVALIERI: Is she a good fuck ?
MOZART: What ? ?
CAVALIERI: I assume she 's the virtuoso in that department . There ca n't be any othe eason you 'd marry someone like that .
CONSTANZE: Excuse me , Wolfi . Mama is not feeling very well . Can we leave now ?
MOZART: Of course .
CAVALIERI: No , no , no , no . You ca n't take him away now . This is his night . Wo n't you introduce us , Wolfgang ?
MOZART: Excuse us , Fraulein . Good night , Signore .
CAVALIERI: You really are full of surprises , are n't you ? You are quite extraordinary , you little shit !
OLD SALIERI: It was incomprehensible . What was God up to ? Here I was denying all my natural lust in order to deserve God 's gift and there was Mozart indulging his in all directions - even though engaged to be married ! - and no rebuke at all ! Was it possible I was being tested ? Was God expecting me to offer forgiveness in the face of every offense , no matter how painful ? That was very possible . All the same , why him ? Why use Mozart to teach me lessons in humility ? My heart was filling up with such hatred for that little man . For the first time in my life I began to know really violent thoughts . I could n't stop them .
VOGLER: Did you try ?
OLD SALIERI: Every day . Sometimes for hours I would pray !
SALIERI: Please ! Please ! Send him away , back to Salzburg . For his sake as well as mine . CU , Christ staring from the Cross .
COLLOREDO: No ! I wo n't have him back .
LEOPOLD: But he needs to be here in Salzburg , Your Grace . He needs me and he needs you . Your protection , you understanding .
COLLOREDO: Hardly .
LEOPOLD: Oh sir , yes ! He 's about to make the worst mistake of his life . Some little Viennese slut is trying to trick him into marriage . I know my son . He is too simple to see the trap - and there is no one there who really cares for him .
COLLOREDO: I 'm not surprised . Money seems to be more important to him than loyalty or friendship . He has sold himself to Vienna . Let Vienna look out fo him .
LEOPOLD: Sir -
COLLOREDO: Your son is an unprincipled , spoiled , conceited brat .
LEOPOLD: Yes , sir , that 's the truth . But do n't lame him . The fault is mine . I was too indulgent with him . But not again . Never again , I promise ! I implore you - let me bring him back here . I 'll make him give his word to serve you faithfully .
COLLOREDO: And how will you make him keep it ?
LEOPOLD: Oh , sir , he 's never disobeyed me in anything . Please , Your Grace , give him one more chance .
COLLOREDO: You have leave to try .
LEOPOLD: Oh , Your Grace - I thank Your Grace ! I thank you !
MOZART: I will .
PRIEST: And will you , Constanze Weber , take this man , Wolfgang to be your lawful husband ?
CONSTANZE: I will .
PRIEST: I now pronounce you man and wife .
JOSEPH: Good morning , Court Composer . This is my niece , the Princess Elizabeth .
SALIERI: Your Highness . Out of breath , the Princess nods nervously .
JOSEPH: She has asked me to advise her on a suitable musical instructor . I think I 've come up with an excellent idea . He smiles at Salieri .
SALIERI: Oh , Your Majesty , it would be such a tremendous honour !
JOSEPH: I 'm thinking about Herr Mozart . What is your view ? Salieri 's face falls , almost imperceptibly .
SALIERI: An interesting idea , Majesty . But -
JOSEPH: Yes ?
SALIERI: You already commissioned an opera from Mozart .
JOSEPH: And the result satisfies .
SALIERI: Yes , of course . My concern is to protect you from any suspicion of favouritism .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Favouritism . But I so want Mozart .
SALIERI: I 'm sure there is a way , Majesty . Some kind of a little contest . I could perhaps put together a small Committee , and I could see to it naturally that it will select according to Your Majesty 's wishes .
JOSEPH: You please me , Court Composer . A very clever idea .
SALIERI: Sire .
JOSEPH: Well . There it is .
MOZART: What is this , Herr Chamberlain ?
VON STRACK: What is what ?
MOZART: Why do I have to submit samples of my work to some stupid committee ? Just to teach a sixteen-year-old girl .
VON STRACK: Because His Majesty wishes it .
MOZART: Is the Emperor angry with me ?
VON STRACK: On the contrary .
MOZART: Then why does n't he simply appoint me to the post ?
VON STRACK: Mozart , you are not the only compose in Vienna .
MOZART: No , but I 'm the best .
VON STRACK: A little modesty would suit you etter .
MOZART: Who is on this committee ?
VON STRACK: Kapellmeister Bonno , Count Orsini- Rosenberg and Court Composer Salieri .
MOZART: Naturally , the Italians ! Of course ! Always the Italians !
VON STRACK: Mozart -
MOZART: They hate my music . It terrifies them . The only sound Italians understand is banality . Tonic and dominant , tonic and dominant , from here to Resurrection ! Ba-ba ! Ba-ba ! Ba-ba ! Ba-ba ! Anything else is morbid .
VON STRACK: Mozart -
MOZART: Show them one interesting modulation and they faint . Ohime ! Morbidezza ! Morbidezza ! Italians are musical idiots and you want them to judge my music !
VON STRACK: Look , young man , the issue is simple . If you want this post , you must submit your stuff in the same way as all your colleagues .
MOZART: Must I ? Well , I wo n't ! I tell you straight I will not !
CONSTANZE: I think you 're mad ! You 're really mad !
MOZART: Oh , leave me alone .
CONSTANZE: One royal pupil and the whole of Vienna will come flocking . We 'd be set up for life !
MOZART: They 'll come anyway . They love me here .
CONSTANZE: No , they will not . I know how things work in this city .
MOZART: Oh yes ? You always know everything .
CONSTANZE: Well , I 'm not borrowing any more money from my mother , and that 's that !
MOZART: You borrowed money from your mother ?
CONSTANZE: Yes !
MOZART: Well , do n't do that again !
CONSTANZE: How are we going to live , Wolfi ? Do you want me to go into the streets and beg ?
MOZART: Do n't be stupid .
CONSTANZE: All they want to see is your work . What 's wrong with that ?
MOZART: Shut up ! Just shut up ! I do n't need them .
CONSTANZE: This is n't pride . It 's shee stupidity ! She glares at him , almost in tears .
SALIERI: Yes . A SERVANT enters .
SERVANT: Excuse me , sir , there is a lady who insists on talking to you .
SALIERI: Who is she ?
SERVANT: She did n't say . But she says it 's urgent .
SALIERI: Excuse me , my dear . Salieri goes into the salon .
CONSTANZE: Excellency !
SALIERI: Madame . How can I help you ? Shyly , she unveils .
CONSTANZE: That 's right , Your Excellency . I 've come on behalf of my hus band . I 'm - I 'm bringing some samples of his work so he can be considered for the oyal appointment .
SALIERI: How charming . But why did he not come himself ?
CONSTANZE: He 's terribly busy , sir .
SALIERI: I understand .
CONSTANZE: Would it be too much trouble , sir , to ask you to look at them now ? While I wait .
SALIERI: I 'm afraid I 'm not at leisure this very moment . Just leave them with me . I assure you they will be quite safe .
CONSTANZE: I - I really can not do that , You Excellency . You see , he does n't know I 'm here .
SALIERI: Really ?
CONSTANZE: My husband is a proud man , sir . He would be furious if he knew I 'd come .
SALIERI: Then he did n't send you ?
CONSTANZE: No , sir . This is my own idea .
SALIERI: I see .
CONSTANZE: Sir , we really need this job . We 're desperate . My husband spends fa more than he can ever earn . I do n't mean he 's lazy - he 's not at all - he works all day long . It 's just ! he 's not practical . Money simply slips through his fingers , it 's really idiculous , Your Excellency . I know you help musicians . You 're famous for it . Give him just this one post . We 'd be forever indebted ! A short pause .
SALIERI: Let me offer you some refreshment . Do you know what these are ?
CONSTANZE: Oh ! They 're wonderful .
SALIERI: Do n't keep calling me that . It puts me at such a distance . I was not orn a Court Composer , you know . I 'm from a small town , just like your husband . He smiles at her . She takes another chestnut .
CONSTANZE: That 's very tempting , but it 's impossible , I 'm afraid . Wolfi would e frantic if he found those were missing . You see , they 're all originals .
SALIERI: Originals ?
CONSTANZE: Yes .
SALIERI: These are originals ?
CONSTANZE: Yes , sir . He does n't make copies .
OLD SALIERI: Astounding ! It was actually beyond elief . These were first and only drafts of music yet they showed no corrections of any kind . Not one . Do you realize what that meant ? Vogler stares at him .
CONSTANZE: Is it no good ? A pause .
SALIERI: It is miraculous .
CONSTANZE: Oh yes . He 's really proud of his work . Another pause .
SALIERI: Tomorrow night I dine with the Emperor . One word from me and the post is his .
CONSTANZE: Oh , thank you , sir !
SALIERI: Come back tonight .
CONSTANZE: Tonight ?
SALIERI: Alone .
CONSTANZE: What for ?
SALIERI: Some service deserves service in eturn . No ?
CONSTANZE: What do you mean ?
SALIERI: Is n't it obvious ?
CONSTANZE: But ! I 'm a married woman !
SALIERI: Then do n't . It 's up to you . Not to e vague , that is the price . He glares at her .
OLD SALIERI: Yes , Father . Yes ! So much for my vow of chastity . What did it matter ? Good , patient , hard-working , chaste - what did it matter ? Had goodness made me a good composer ? I realized it absolutely then - that moment goodness is nothing in the furnace of art . And I was nothing to God .
VOGLER: You can not say that !
OLD SALIERI: No ? Was Mozart a good man ?
VOGLER: God 's ways are not yours . And you are not here to question Him . Offe him the salt of penitence . He will give you back the bread of eternal life . He is all merciful . That is all you need to know .
OLD SALIERI: All I ever wanted was to sing to Him . That 's His doing , is n't it ? He gave me that longing - then made me mute . Why ? Tell me that . If He did n't want me to serve Him with music , why implant the desire , like a lust in my body , then deny me the talent ? Go on , tell me ! Speak for Him !
VOGLER: My son , no one can speak for God .
OLD SALIERI: Oh ? I thought you did so every day . So speak now . Answer me !
VOGLER: I do not claim to unravel the mysteries . I treasure them . As you should .
OLD SALIERI: Oh yes , yes , yes , yes , yes ! Always the same stale answers ! There is no God of Mercy , Father . Just a God of torture .
SALIERI: Dear God , enter me now . Fill me with one piece of true music . One piece with your breath in it , so I know that you love me . Please . Just one . Show me one sign of your favour , and I will show mine to Mozart and his wife . I will get him the royal position , and if she comes , I 'll eceive her with all respect and send her home in joy . Enter me ! Ente me ! Please ! Te imploro .
SERVANT: That lady is back , sir .
SALIERI: Show her in . Then go to bed .
CONSTANZE: Well , I 'm here . My husband has gone to a concert . He did n't think I would enjoy it . A pause .
SALIERI: What ?
CONSTANZE: Should we stay here ? It 's a charming oom . I love these candlesticks . Were they here earlier ? I did n't notice them I suppose I was too nervous .
SALIERI: Go ! Go ! Go !
CONSTANZE: You shit ! You shit ! You rotten shit !
OLD SALIERI: Because You will not enter me , with all my need for you ; because You scorn my attempts at virtue ; because You choose for Your instrument a oastful , lustful , smutty infantile oy and give me for reward only the ability to recognize the Incarnation ; ecause You are unjust , unfair , unkind , I will block You ! I swea it ! I will hinder and harm You creature on earth as far as I am able . I will ruin Your Incarnation .
MOZART: Stanzi ! Stanzi ! Stanzi-Manzi ! The others laugh .
SCHIKANEDER: Stanzi-Manzi-Banzi-Wanzi !
MOZART: Sssh ! Stay here .
SCHIKANEDER: Sssh ! You 're dishgrashful !
MOZART: Stanzi ? How 's my mouse ? Mouse-wouse ? I 'm back - puss-wuss is back !
CONSTANZE: Tell them to go away . I do n't want to see anybody .
MOZART: What 's the matter with you ?
CONSTANZE: Tell them to go !
MOZART: Sssh . What is it ? Tell me .
CONSTANZE: No !
MOZART: Yes !
CONSTANZE: I love you ! I love you !
JOSEPH: I do n't think you understand me , Court Composer .
SALIERI: Majesty , I did . Believe me , it was a most agonizing . decision . But finally , I simply could not recommend He Mozart .
JOSEPH: Why not ?
SALIERI: Well , Sire , I made some inquiries in a routine way . I was curious to know why he had so few pupils . It is rathe alarming .
JOSEPH: Oh ?
SALIERI: Majesty , I do n't like to talk against a fellow musician .
JOSEPH: Of course not .
SALIERI: I have to tell you , Mozart is not entirely to be trusted alone with young ladies .
JOSEPH: Really ?
SALIERI: As a matter of fact , one of my own pupils - a very young singer - told me she was - er - well !
JOSEPH: Yes ?
SALIERI: Molested , Majesty . Twice , in the course of the same lesson . A pause .
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Well . There it is .
SERVANT: Sir , there is a Herr Mozart waiting for you in the salon . Salieri is plainly alarmed .
SALIERI: What does he want ?
SERVANT: He did n't say , sir . I told him I did n't know when you would be back , ut he insisted on waiting .
SALIERI: Come with me . And stay in the room . He mounts the stairs .
MOZART: Your Excellency , you requested some specimens of my work . Here they are . I do n't have to tell you how much I need your help . I truly appreciate your looking at these . I have pressures on me - financial pressures . As you know , I 'm a married man now .
SALIERI: So you are . How is your pretty wife ?
MOZART: She is well . She is - well , actually , I 'm about to become a father ! She only told me last night . You are the first to know .
SALIERI: I 'm flattered . And congratulations to you , of course .
MOZART: So you see , this post is very important to me right now . Salieri looks at him in distress .
SALIERI: Why did n't you come to me yesterday , Mozart ? This is a most painful situation . Yesterday I could have helped you . Today , I ca n't .
MOZART: Why ? Here is the music . It 's here . I am submitting it humbly . Is n't that what you wanted ?
SALIERI: I have just come from the palace . The post has been filled .
MOZART: Filled ? That 's impossible ! They have n't even seen my work . I need this post . Please , ca n't you help me ? Please !
SALIERI: My dear Mozart , there is no one in the world I would rather help , but now it is too late .
MOZART: Whom did they choose ?
SALIERI: Herr Sommer .
MOZART: Sommer ? Herr Sommer ? But the man 's a fool ! He 's a total mediocrity .
SALIERI: No , no , no he has yet to achieve mediocrity .
MOZART: But I ca n't lose this post , I simply ca n't ! Excellency , please . Let 's go to the palace , and you can explain to the Emperor that Herr Sommer is an awful choice . He could actually do musical harm to the Princess !
SALIERI: An implausible idea . Between you and me , no one in the world could do musical harm to the Princess Elizabeth .
MOZART: Look , I must have pupils . Without pupils I ca n't manage .
SALIERI: You do n't mean to tell me you are living in poverty ?
MOZART: No , but I 'm broke . I 'm always broke . I do n't know why .
SALIERI: It has been said , my friend , that you are inclined to live somewhat above your means .
MOZART: How can anyone say that ? We have no cook , no maid . We have no footman . Nothing at all !
SALIERI: How is that possible ? You give concerts , do n't you ? I hear they are quite successful .
MOZART: They 're stupendously successful . You ca n't get a seat . The only problem is none will hire me . They all want to hear me play , but they wo n't let me teach their daughters . As if I was some kind of fiend . I 'm not a fiend !
SALIERI: Of course not .
MOZART: Do you have a daughter ?
SALIERI: I 'm afraid not .
MOZART: Well , could you lend me some money till you have one ? Then I 'll teach her for free . That 's a promise . Oh , I 'm sorry . I 'm being silly . Papa 's ight - I should put a padlock on my mouth . Seriously , is there any chance you could manage a loan ? Only fo six months , eight at most . Afte that I 'll be the richest man in Vienna . I 'll pay you back double . Anything . Name your terms . I 'm not joking . I 'm working on something that 's going to explode like a bom all over Europe !
SALIERI: Ah , how exciting ! Tell me more .
MOZART: I 'd better not . It 's a bit of a secret .
SALIERI: Come , come , Mozart ; I 'm interested . Truly .
MOZART: Actually , it 's a big secret . Oh , this is delicious ! What is it ?
SALIERI: Cream cheese mixed with granulated sugar and suffused with rum . Crema al Mascarpone .
MOZART: Ah . Italian ?
SALIERI: Forgive me . We all have patriotic feelings of some kind .
MOZART: Two thousand , two hundred florins is all I need A hundred ? Fifty ?
SALIERI: What exactly are you working on ?
MOZART: I ca n't say . Really
SALIERI: I do n't think you should become known in Vienna as a debtor , Mozart . However , I know a very distinguished gentleman I could recommend to you . And he has a daughter . Will that do ?
SCHLUMBERG: Quiet ! Quiet ! Quiet ! Down there , damn you . Welcome to you . Pay no attention , they 're impossible . Stop it , you willful things ! Come this way . Just ignore them . They 're perfectly harmless , just willful . I treat them just like my own children .
MOZART: And which one of them do you want me to teach ?
SCHLUMBERG: What ? Ha-ha ! That 's funny - I like it . Which one , eh ? You 're a funny fellow . Hannah ! Come this way .
MOZART: Madame .
SCHLUMBERG: This is Herr Mozart , my dear . The young man Herr Salieri recommended to teach our Gertrude . Where is she ?
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Upstairs .
SCHLUMBERG: Gertrude !
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: You ca n't be Herr Mozart !
MOZART: I 'm afraid I am .
SCHLUMBERG: Of course , it 's him . Who do you think it is ?
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: I 've heard about you for ages ! I thought you must be an old man .
SCHLUMBERG: Gertrude !
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: It 's such an honour for us to have you here , Herr Mozart . And fo Gertrude .
SCHLUMBERG: People who know say the girl 's got talent . You must judge for yourself . If you think she stinks , say so .
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Michael , please ! I 'm sure you will find her most willing , Herr Mozart . She 's really very excited . She 's een preparing all morning .
MOZART: Really ?
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Ah , now ! Here she comes .
MOZART: Good morning , Fraulein Schlumberg .
SCHLUMBERG: Strudel , this is Herr Mozart . Say good morning . Gertrude giggles instead .
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Perhaps a little refreshment first ? A little coffee , or a little chocolate ?
MOZART: I 'd like a little wine , if you have it .
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Wine ?
SCHLUMBERG: Quite right . He 's going to need it . Klaus ! A bottle of wine . Prestissimo ! Now let 's go to it . I 've been waiting all day for this . He leads the way into
MOZART: Now , please play me something . Just to give me an idea . Anything will do .
GERTRUDE: I do n't want you to stay .
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: That 's all right , dear . Just go ahead , as if we were n't here .
GERTRUDE: But you are here .
SCHLUMBERG: Never mind , Strudel . It 's part of music , getting used to an audience . Are n't I right , Herr Mozart ?
MOZART: Well , yes ! on the whole . I suppose . How long have you been playing , Fraulein ?
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Just one year .
MOZART: Who was your teacher ?
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: I was . But she quite outgrew the little I could show her .
MOZART: Thank you , Madame . Come on now - courage . Play me something you know .
SCHLUMBERG: Nonsense . Strudel 's not shy . She 's just willful ! You give into her now , you 'll be sorry later . Strudel - play .
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: Michael !
MOZART: Perhaps if I were to play a little first , it might encourage the Fraulein . Why do n't you let me try the instrument ? All right ?
SCHLUMBERG: Stop that , Dudelsachs ! Stop it at once ! Do n't let him disturb you . He 'll be all right . He 's just a little willful too . Please , please - play . I beg you .
MOZART: Well , I 'm a good teacher . The next time you wish me to instruct anothe of your dogs , please let me know . Goodbye , Fraulein , goodbye , Madame ! goodbye , Sir !
FRAU SCHLUMBERG: What a strange young man .
SCHLUMBERG: Yes . He is a little strange .
MOZART: Papa ! PAPA ! Both men embrace . The music slowly fades .
LEOPOLD: Am I not welcome ?
MOZART: Of course , welcome ! Welcome ten thousand times . Papa ! my Papa ! He kisses his hands .
LEOPOLD: You 're very thin . Does she not feed you , this wife of yours ?
MOZART: Feed ? Well , of course she feeds me . She stuffs me like a goose all day long . She 's the best cook in the world . I mean , since Mama . Just wait , you 'll see .
LEOPOLD: Is she not here ?
MOZART: I do n't know . Stanzi ? Stanzi !
LEOPOLD: Do you always live like this ?
MOZART: Oh , yes . Oh , I mean no - not exactly like this . I mean today - just today , Stanzi - I remember now . She had to go - yes ! She had to help her mother . Yes , she 's like that . Her mother 's a very sweet woman , you 'll see .
LEOPOLD: Do n't you have a maid ?
MOZART: Oh we could , if we wanted to , but Stanzi wo n't hear of it . She wants to do everything herself .
LEOPOLD: How is your financial situation ?
MOZART: It could n't be better .
LEOPOLD: That 's not what I hear .
MOZART: What do you mean ? It 's wonderful . Really , it 's - it 's marvelous ! People love me here .
LEOPOLD: They say you 're in debt .
MOZART: Who ? Who says that ? Now that 's a malicious lie !
LEOPOLD: How many pupils do you have ?
MOZART: Pupils ?
LEOPOLD: Yes .
MOZART: Yes .
LEOPOLD: How many ?
MOZART: I do n't know . It 's not important . I mean , I do n't want pupils . They get in the way . I 've got to have time for composition .
LEOPOLD: Composition does n't pay . You know that .
MOZART: This one will . He picks up some pages of manuscript .
LEOPOLD: What 's that ?
MOZART: Oh , let 's not talk about it .
LEOPOLD: Why not ?
MOZART: It 's a secret .
LEOPOLD: You do n't have secrets from me .
MOZART: It 's too dangerous , Papa . But they 're going to love it . Ah , there she is !
CONSTANZE: Stop it , Wolfi . I look dreadful . Welcome to our house , Herr Mozart .
MOZART: He 's not Herr Mozart . Call him Papa .
LEOPOLD: I see that you 're expecting .
CONSTANZE: Oh , yes .
LEOPOLD: When , may I ask ?
CONSTANZE: In three months ! Papa .
MOZART: Is n't that marvelous ? We 're delighted .
LEOPOLD: Why did n't you mention it in you letters ?
MOZART: Did n't I ? I thought I did . I 'm sure I did . He gives a little giggle of embarrassment .
CONSTANZE: May I offer you some tea , Herr Mozart ?
MOZART: Tea ? Who wants tea ? Let 's go out ! This calls for a feast . You do n't want tea , Papa . Let 's go dancing . Papa loves parties , do n't you ?
CONSTANZE: Wolfi !
MOZART: What ? How can you be so boring ? Tea !
CONSTANZE: Wolfi , I think your father 's tired . I 'll cook us something here .
LEOPOLD: Thank you . That 'll be fine . Do n't spend any money on me .
MOZART: Why not ? Oh , come , Papa ! What bette way could I spend it than on you ? My kissable , missable , suddenly visible Papa !
SCHIKANEDER: No , no ! You both lost . You both lost . You both have to forfeit . And the penalty is you must exchange you wigs .
LEOPOLD: No , please ! This is ridiculous ! No , please !
MOZART: This is just a game , Papa .
CONSTANZE: This is just a game , Papa !
BYSTANDERS: This is just a game , Papa !
MOZART: Oh no , Papa , please ! Do n't spoil the fun . Come on . Here , take mine .
SCHIKANEDER: Herr Mozart , why do n't you name you son 's penalty ? Applause .
MOZART: Yes , Papa , name it . Name it . I 'll do anything you say !
LEOPOLD: I want you to come back with me to Salzburg , my son .
SCHIKANEDER: What did he say ? What did he say ?
MOZART: Papa , the rule is you can only give penalties that can be performed in the room .
LEOPOLD: I 'm tired of this game . Please play without me .
MOZART: But my penalty . I 've got to have a penalty . All the bystanders are watching .
SCHIKANEDER: I 've got a good one . I 've got the perfect one for you . Come over here .
MOZART: Oh , that 's really too easy . Any child can do that . Amused sounds of disbelief .
SCHIKANEDER: And a fugue in the manner of Sebastian Bach .
GUESTS: Another ! Do another ! Someone else .
MOZART: Give me a name . Who shall I do ? Give me a name .
GUESTS: Gluck ! Haydn ! Frederic Handel !
CONSTANZE: Salieri ! Do Salieri !
MOZART: Now that 's hard . That 's very hard . For Salieri one has to face the right way around .
OLD SALIERI: Go on . Mock me . Laugh , laugh !
CONSTANZE: Wolfi ! Wolfgang ! The music breaks off .
MOZART: What is it ? He opens the door .
CONSTANZE: There 's a young girl to see you .
MOZART: What does she want ?
CONSTANZE: I do n't know .
MOZART: Well , ask her !
CONSTANZE: She wo n't talk to me . She says she has to speak to you .
MOZART: Oh , damn !
LORL: Are you Herr Mozart ?
MOZART: That 's right .
LORL: My name is Lorl , sir . I 'm a maidservant . I was asked to come here and offer my services to you .
MOZART: What ?
LORL: They 'll be paid for by a great admire or yours who wishes to remain anon - anonymous .
CONSTANZE: What do you mean ? What admirer ?
LORL: I ca n't tell you that , ma'am .
MOZART: Are you saying that someone is paying you to be our maid and does n't want us to know who he is ?
LORL: Yes . I can live in or out just as you wish . Mozart turns to his father .
MOZART: Papa , is this your idea ?
LEOPOLD: Mine ?
MOZART: Are you playing a trick on me ?
LEOPOLD: I never saw this girl in my life . Is this a kind of joke ?
LORL: Not at all , sir . And I was told to wait for an answer .
LEOPOLD: Young woman , this wo n't do at all . My son ca n't possibly accept such an offer , no matter how generous , unless he knows who is behind it .
LORL: But I really ca n't tell you , sir .
LEOPOLD: Oh , this is ridiculous .
CONSTANZE: What is ridiculous ? Wolfi has many admirers in Vienna . They love him here . People send us gifts all the time .
LEOPOLD: But you ca n't take her without eference . It 's unheard of !
CONSTANZE: Well , this is none of your business . Whoever sent you is going to pay , no ?
LORL: That 's right , ma'am .
LEOPOLD: So now we are going to let a perfect stranger into the house ?
CONSTANZE: Who is we ? Who is letting who ? Could you please wait outside ?
LORL: Yes , ma'am .
CONSTANZE: Look , old man , you stay out of this . We spend a fortune on you , more than we can possibly afford , and all you do is criticize , morning to night . And then you think you can -
MOZART: Stanzi !
CONSTANZE: No , it 's right he should hear . I 'm sick to death of it . We ca n't do anything right for you , can we ?
LEOPOLD: Never mind . You wo n't have to do anything for me ever again . I 'm leaving !
MOZART: Papa !
LEOPOLD: Do n't worry , I 'm not staying here to e a burden .
MOZART: No one calls you that .
LEOPOLD: She does . She says I sleep all day .
CONSTANZE: And so you do ! The only time you come out is to eat .
LEOPOLD: And what do you expect ? Who wants to walk out into a mess like this every day ?
CONSTANZE: Oh , now I 'm a bad housekeeper !
LEOPOLD: So you are ! The place is a pigsty all the time .
CONSTANZE: Do you hear him ? Do you ? Explosively she opens the door .
LORL: Right away , ma'am .
CONSTANZE: Good ! Come in . You 'll start with that room there . It 's filthy !
LEOPOLD: Sorry , sorry ! I 'm sorry I spoke ! I 'm just a provincial from Salzburg . What do I know about smart Vienna ? Parties all night , every night . Dancing and drinking like idiot children !
LORL: They 're out every night , sir . Till all hours .
SALIERI: Do any pupils come to the house ?
LORL: Not that I 've seen .
SALIERI: Then how does he pay for all this ? Does he work at all ?
LORL: Oh , yes , sir , all day long . He neve leaves the house until evening . He just sits there , writing and writing . He does n't even eat .
SALIERI: Really ? What is it he 's writing ?
LORL: Oh , I would n't know that , sir .
SALIERI: Of course not . You 're a good girl . You 're very kind to do this . Next time you 're sure they 'll be out of the house , let me know , will you ?
LORL: Oh , thank you , sir ! She accepts them , delighted .
SALIERI: Yes what ?
LORL: He kept seven snuff boxes in here . I could swear they were all gold . And now look there 's only one left . And inside , sir , look - I counted them - tickets from the pawnshop . Six of them . Salieri turns to look around him .
SALIERI: Where does he work ?
LORL: In there , sir .
JOSEPH: Bravo , Mozart . Most charming . Yes , indeed . Clever man .
MOZART: Thank you , Sire !
VON SWIETEN: Well done , Mozart . Really quite fine .
MOZART: Baron !
JOSEPH: What is it ?
MOZART: May I introduce my father ? He is on a short visit here and returning very soon to Salzburg . He would so much like to kiss your hand . It would make his whole stay so memorable fo him .
JOSEPH: Ah ! By all means .
LEOPOLD: Your Majesty . Constanze curtsies .
JOSEPH: Good evening . We have met before , Herr Mozart .
LEOPOLD: That 's right , Your Majesty . Twenty years ago . No , twenty-two ! twenty- three ! And I remember word for word what you said to me . You said - you said He searches his memory .
JOSEPH: Bravo ?
LEOPOLD: No ! Yes , 'bravo , ' of course 'bravo ' ! Everybody always says 'bravo ' when Wolfi plays . Like the King of England . When we played for the King of England , he got up at the end and said , 'Bravo ! Bravo ! Bravo ! ' three times . Three bravo 's . And the Pope four ! Four bravo 's from the Holy Father , and one 'bellissimo . ' All the courtiers around are looking at him .
MOZART: Father -
LEOPOLD: Hush ! I 'm talking to His Majesty . Your Majesty , I wish to express only one thing - that you who are the Father of us all , could teach ou children the gratitude they owe to fathers . It is not for nothing that the Fifth Commandment tells us 'Honour your Father and Mother , that your days may be long upon the earth . '
JOSEPH: Ah-ha . Well . There it is .
SALIERI: I 've just learned something that might be of interest to you , He Director .
BONNO: Aie !
SALIERI: And that 's not all . He has chosen for his subject , Figaro . The Marriage of Figaro .
BONNO: What is this Marriage of Figaro ?
SALIERI: I 've seen the manuscript .
VON STRACK: I know we banned this play , but frankly I ca n't remember why . Can you refresh my memory , Herr Director ?
LACKEY: Herr Mozart .
JOSEPH: Sit down , gentlemen , please .
MOZART: Yes , Sire .
JOSEPH: Yet we hear you are making an opera from it . Is this true ?
MOZART: Who told you this , Majesty ?
JOSEPH: It is not your place to ask questions . Is it true ?
MOZART: Well , yes , I admit it is .
JOSEPH: Would you tell me why ?
MOZART: Well , Majesty , it is only a comedy .
JOSEPH: Mozart , I am a tolerant man . I do not censor things lightly . When I do , I have good reason . Figaro is a ad play . It stirs up hatred between the classes . In France it has caused nothing but bitterness . My own dea sister Antoinette writes me that she is beginning to be frightened of he own people . I do not wish to see the same fears starting here .
MOZART: Sire , I swear to Your Majesty , there 's nothing like that in the story . I have taken out everything that could give offense . I hate politics .
JOSEPH: I think you are rather innocent , my friend . In these dangerous times I can not afford to provoke our nobles or our people simply over a theatre piece .
MOZART: But , Majesty , this is just a frolic . It 's a piece about love .
JOSEPH: Ah , love again .
MOZART: But it 's new , it 's entirely new . It 's so new , people will go mad fo it . For example , I have a scene in the second act - it starts as a duet , just a man and wife quarreling . Suddenly the wife 's scheming little maid comes in unexpectedly - a very funny situation . Duet turns into trio . Then the husband 's equally screaming valet comes in . Trio turns into quartet . Then a stupid old gardener - quartet becomes quintet , and so on . On and on , sextet , septet , octet ! How long do you think I can sustain that ?
JOSEPH: I have no idea .
MOZART: Guess ! Guess , Majesty . Imagine the longest time such a thing could last , then double it .
JOSEPH: Well , six or seven minutes ! maybe eight !
MOZART: Twenty , sire ! How about twenty ? Twenty minutes of continuous music . No recitatives .
VON SWIETEN: Mozart -
MOZART: Sire , only opera can do this . In a play , if more than one person speaks at the same time , it 's just noise . No one can understand a word . But with music , with music you can have twenty individuals all talking at once , and it 's not noise - it 's a perfect harmony . Is n't that marvelous ?
VON SWIETEN: Mozart , music is not the issue here . No one doubts your talent . It is your judgment of literature that 's in question . Even with the politics taken out , this thing would still emain a vulgar farce . Why waste your spirit on such rubbish ? Surely you can choose more elevated themes ?
MOZART: Elevated ? What does that mean ? Elevated ! The only thing a man should elevate is - oh , excuse me . I 'm sorry . I 'm stupid . But I am fed up to the teeth with elevated things ! Old dead legends ! How can we go on foreve writing about gods and legends ?
VON SWIETEN: Because they do . They go on forever - at least what they represent . The eternal in us , not the ephemeral . Opera is here to ennoble us . You and me , just as much as His Majesty .
BONNO: Bello ! Bello , Barone . Veramente .
MOZART: Oh , bello , bello , bello ! Come on now , be honest . Would n't you all ather listen to your hairdressers than Hercules ? Or Horatius ? O Orpheus ? All those old bores ! people so lofty they sound as if they shit marble !
VON SWIETEN: What ?
VON STRACK: Govern your tongue , sir ! How dare you ? Beat . All look at the Emperor .
MOZART: Forgive me , Majesty . I 'm a vulga man . But I assure you , my music is not .
JOSEPH: You are passionate , Mozart ! But you do not persuade .
MOZART: Sire , the whole opera is finished . Do you know how much work went into it ?
BONNO: His Majesty has been more than patient , Signore .
MOZART: How can I persuade you if you wo n't let me show it ?
VON STRACK: Herr Mozart -
MOZART: May I just do that , Majesty ? Show you how it begins ? Just that ? A slight pause . Then Joseph nods .
JOSEPH: Please . Mozart falls on his knees .
MOZART: Look ! There 's a servant , down on his knees . Do you know why ? Not from any oppression . No , he 's simply measuring a space . Do you know what for ? His ed . His wedding bed to see if it will fit . He giggles .
SALIERI: Incredible .
BONNO: Si , si ! Veramente .
SALIERI: Well , gentlemen , so be it . In that case I think we should help Mozart all we can and do our best to protect him against the Emperor 's anger .
MOZART: Certainly , Herr Director . He signals to the cast to break off .
SERVANT: Herr Mozart .
MOZART: Please ! Please . I 've no one else to turn to . Please ! He grabs Salieri .
SALIERI: Wolfgang , what is it ? Sta calmo , pe favore . What 's the matter ?
MOZART: It 's unbelievable ! The Director has actually ripped out a huge section of my music . Pages of it .
SALIERI: Really ? Why ?
MOZART: I do n't know . They say I 've got to e-write the opera , but it 's perfect as it is . I ca n't rewrite what 's perfect . Ca n't you talk to him ?
SALIERI: Why bother with Orsini-Rosenberg ? He 's obviously no friend of yours .
MOZART: Oh , I could kill him ! I mean really kill him . I actually threw the entire opera on the fire , he made me so angry !
SALIERI: You burned the score ?
MOZART: Oh no ! My wife took it out in time .
SALIERI: How fortunate .
MOZART: It 's not fair that a man like that has power over our work .
SALIERI: But there are those who have powe over him . I think I 'll take this up with the Emperor .
MOZART: Oh , Excellency , would you ?
SALIERI: With all my heart , Mozart .
MOZART: Thank you ! Oh , thank you . He kisses Salieri 's hand .
SALIERI: No , no , no , Herr Mozart , please . It 's not a holy relic . Mozart giggles with relief and gratitude .
OLD SALIERI: I 'm sure I do n't need to tell you I said nothing whatever to the Emperor . I went to the theatre ready to tell Mozart that His Majesty had flown into a rage when I mentioned the allet , when suddenly , to my astonishment , in the middle of the third act , the Emperor - who neve attended rehearsals - suddenly appeared .
JOSEPH: What is this ? I do n't understand . Is it modern ?
BONNO: Majesty , the Herr Director , he has emoved a balleto that would have occurred at this place .
JOSEPH: Why ?
SALIERI: It is not a question of liking , You Majesty . Your own law decrees it , I 'm afraid .
JOSEPH: Well , look at them .
MOZART: Oh yes , certainly . Certainly , He Director !
JOSEPH: What I hoped by that edict , Director , was simply to prevent hours of dancing like in French opera . There it is endless , as you know .
OLD SALIERI: So Figaro was produced in spite of me . And in spite of me , a wonder was evealed . One of the true wonders of art . The restored third act was bold and brilliant . The fourth was a miracle .
MOZART: Nine performances ! Nine ! That 's all it 's had - and withdrawn .
SALIERI: I know ; it 's outrageous . Still , if the public does n't like one 's work one has to accept the fact gracefully .
MOZART: But what is it they do n't like ?
SALIERI: Well , I can speak for the Emperor . You made too many demands on the oyal ear . The poor man ca n't concentrate for more than an hou and you gave him four .
MOZART: What did you think of it yourself ? Did you like it at all ?
SALIERI: I think it 's marvelous . Truly .
MOZART: It 's the best opera yet written . I know it ! Why did n't they come ?
SALIERI: I think you overestimate our dea Viennese , my friend . Do you know you did n't even give them a good bang at the end of songs so they knew when to clap ?
MOZART: I know , I know . Perhaps you should give me some lessons in that .
SALIERI: I would n't presume . All the same , if it would n't be imposing , I would like you to see my new piece . It would be a tremendous honour for me .
MOZART: Oh no , the honour would be all mine .
SALIERI: Grazie , mio caro , Wolfgang !
MOZART: Grazie , a lei , Signor Antonio ! He bows too , giggling .
OLD SALIERI: Would he actually tell me my music had moved him ? Was I really going to hear that from his own lips ? I found myself actually hurrying the tempo of the finale .
MOZART: Well ?
SCHIKANEDER: Sublime ! Utterly sublime !
MOZART: That kind of music should be punishable by death . Schikaneder laughs .
JOSEPH: I believe that is the best opera yet written , my friends . Salieri , you are the brightest star in the musical firmament . You do honour to Vienna and to me .
SALIERI: Mozart . It was good of you to come .
MOZART: How could I not ?
SALIERI: Did my work please you ?
MOZART: How could it not , Excellency ?
SALIERI: Yes ?
MOZART: I never knew that music like that was possible .
SALIERI: You flatter me .
MOZART: Oh no ! One hears such sounds and what can one say , but - Salieri ! Salieri smiles .
CONSTANZE: Wolfi .
MOZART: Yes , my love ?
CONSTANZE: These gentlemen are from Salzburg .
MOZART: Salzburg . We were just talking about Salzburg . If you 've come from my friend the Fartsbishop , you 've arrived at just the right moment . Because I 've got good news for him . I 'm done with Vienna . It 's over , finished , done with ! Done with ! Done with !
CONSTANZE: Wolfi ! Your father is dead .
MOZART: What ?
CONSTANZE: Your father is dead .
THE COMMENDATORE: Don Giovanni !
OLD SALIERI: Now a madness began in me . The madness of a man splitting in half . Through my influence I saw to it Don Giovanni was played only five times in Vienna . But in secret I went to every one of those five - all alone - unable to help myself , worshipping sound I alone seemed to hear .
EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER: Impresario de luxe
PRESENTS: The Celebrated
IN: An Evening of
PARODY: Music ! Mirth ! Magic !
EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER: who personally will appear in every scene !
SCHIKANEDER: Who is it ? One more knock .
COMMENDATORE: Don Giovannnnnnnnnni !
SCHIKANEDER: Who the devil are you ? What do you want ?
COMMENDATORE: I 've come to dinnnnnner !
SCHIKANEDER: Dinner ? How dare you ? I am a nobleman . I only dine with people of my own height .
COMMENDATORE: Are you drunk ? You invited me . And my horse . Here he is . Ottavio !
FIRST LADY: Be careful !
SECOND LADY: Be careful !
THIRD LADY: Be careful !
COMMENDATORE: Leave me alone ! Stop it ! I 'm a famous horseman .
OTTAVIO: And I 'm a famous horse !
FIRST LADY: He 's adorable !
SECOND LADY: Adorable !
THIRD LADY: Adorable !
THREE LADIES: Give me your hoof , my darling , And I 'll give you my heart ! Take me to your stable , And never more we 'll part !
OTTAVIO: I 'm shy and very bashful . I do n't know what to say .
THREE LADIES: Do n't hesitate a second . Just answe yes and neigh . Ottavio neighs loudly , and runs at the girls .
COMMENDATORE: Stop it . What are you doing ? Remembe who you are ! You 're a horse and they are whores . Boos from the audience .
SCHIKANEDER: This is ridiculous . I wo n't have any of it . You 're turning my house into a circus !
SOPRANO: Dash me ! Bash me ! Lash me ! Flay me ! Slay me ! At last I will be freed by death !
COMMENDATORE: Shut up .
SOPRANO: Kill me ! Kill me ! Kill me ! Kill me ! At last I shall be freed by death . At last I shall be freed by dea -
EIGHT DWARVES: We 're going to make a soprano stew ! We 're going to make a soprano stew ! And when you make a soprano stew ! Any stupid soprano will do ! Any stew- stew-stew-stew-stew ! Any stewpid soprano will do !
FIRST LADY: Behold !
SECOND LADY: Behold ! She sneezes .
THIRD LADY: Behold ! She hiccups . They throw them into the pot .
COMMENDATORE: How long does it take to cook a soprano ?
DWARVES: Five hours , five minutes , five seconds .
COMMENDATORE: I ca n't wait that long . I 'm starving !
OTTAVIO: So am I. Schikaneder marches in as Figaro .
SCHIKANEDER: In the pot , I have got a good dinner . Not a sausage or stew , but a singer . Not a sausage or stew but a singer . Is the treat that I 'll eat for my meat !
COMMENDATORE: Oh shut up . I 'm sick to death of that tune .
SOPRANO: Oil me ! Broil me ! Boil me !
HORSE: I ca n't eat her . Sopranos give me hiccups . I want some hay !
FIRST LADY: Hey !
SECOND LADY: Hey !
THIRD LADY: Hey !
SCHIKANEDER: Hey what ?
COMMENDATORE: Shut up .
SCHIKANEDER: Leporello ! We want some hay - prestissimo ! Leporello - where are you ?
FIRST LADY: Behold !
SECOND LADY: Behold !
THIRD LADY: Behold !
COMMENDATORE: Hey ! Hey ! Watch out !
SCHIKANEDER: Well , how do you like that ?
MOZART: Wonderful ! He liked the monkey , did n't you ?
SCHIKANEDER: Yes , well , it 's all good fun .
MOZART: I liked the horse .
SCHIKANEDER: Is n't he marvelous ? He cost me a undle , that horse , but he 's worth it . I tell you , if you 'd played Don Giovanni here it would have been a great success . I 'm not joking . These people are n't fools . You could do something marvelous for them .
MOZART: I 'd like to try them someday . I 'm not sure I 'd be much good at it .
SCHIKANEDER: 'Course you would . You belong here , my boy , not the snobby Court . You could do anything you felt like here - the more fantastic the better ! That 's what people want , you know fantasy . You do a big production , fill it with beautiful magic tricks and you 'll e absolutely free to do anything you want . Of course , you 'd have to put a fire in it , because I 've got the best fire machine in the city and a big flood - I can do you the finest water effects you ever saw in your life . Oh , and a few trick animals . You 'd have to use those .
MOZART: Animals ?
SCHIKANEDER: I tell you I picked up a snake in Dresden last week - twelve foot long - folds up to six inches , just like a paper fan . It 's a miracle . Mozart laughs .
MOZART: German !
SCHIKANEDER: Of course ! What else do you think they speak here ?
MOZART: No , no , I love that . I 'd want it to e in German . I have n't done anything in German since Seraglio .
SCHIKANEDER: So there you are . What do you say ?
CONSTANZE: How much will you pay him ?
SCHIKANEDER: Ah . Well . Ah , I see you 've got your manager with you . Well , Madame , how about half the receipts ?
MOZART: Half the receipts ! Stanzi !
CONSTANZE: I 'm talking about now . How much will you give him now ? Down payment ?
SCHIKANEDER: Down payment ? Who do you think I am ? The Emperor ? Whoops , I have to go . He rises in haste for his next number .
CONSTANZE: You 're not going to do this ?
MOZART: Why not ? Half the house !
CONSTANZE: When ? We need money now . Either he pays now , or you do n't do it .
MOZART: Oh , Stanzi .
CONSTANZE: I do n't trust this man . And I did n't like what he did with your opera . It was common .
MOZART: Well , you liked it , did n't you ? Monkey-flunki-punki .
CONSTANZE: Half the house ! You 'll never see a penny . I want it here , in my hand .
MOZART: Stanzi-manzi , I 'll put it in you hand !
CONSTANZE: Shut up ! I 'll not let you put anything in my hand until I see some money . He giggles like a child .
SCHLUMBERG: Herr Mozart . What a surprise . What can I do for you ?
MOZART: Is my pupil still anxious to learn the art of music ?
SCHLUMBERG: Well , your pupil is married and living in Mannheim , young man .
MOZART: Really ? Perhaps your dear wife might care to profit from my instruction ?
SCHLUMBERG: What is this , Mozart ? What 's the matter with you ?
MOZART: Well . Since it appears nobody is eager to hire my services , could you favour me with a little money instead ?
SCHLUMBERG: What for ?
MOZART: If a man can not earn , he must borrow .
SCHLUMBERG: Well , this is hardly the way to go about it .
MOZART: No doubt , sir . But I am endowed with talent , and you with money . If I offer mine , you should offer yours . Pause .
SCHLUMBERG: I 'm sorry . No .
MOZART: Please . I 'll give it back , I promise . Please , sir .
SCHLUMBERG: My answer is no , Mozart . CU , Mozart . His voice becomes mechanical .
MOZART: Please . Please . Please . Please . Please . Please .
VON SWIETEN: This is embarrassing , you know . You introduced Mozart to some of my friends and he 's begging from practically all of them . It has to stop .
SALIERI: I agree , Baron .
VON SWIETEN: Ca n't you think of anyone who might commission some work from him ? I 've done my best . I got him to arrange some Bach for my Sunday concerts . He got a fee - what I could afford . Ca n't you think of anyone who might do something for him ?
SALIERI: No , Baron , no . I 'm afraid Mozart is a lost cause . He has managed to alienate practically the whole of Vienna . He is constantly drunk . He never pays his debts . I ca n't think of one person to whom I dare recommend him .
VON SWIETEN: How sad . It 's tragic , is n't it ? Such a talent .
SALIERI: Indeed . Just a moment - as a matte of fact I think I do know someone who could commission a work from him . A very appropriate person to do so . Yes .
MOZART: What work ?
SALIERI: A Mass for the dead .
MOZART: What dead ? Who is dead ?
SALIERI: A man who deserved a Requiem Mass and never got one .
MOZART: Who are you ?
SALIERI: I am only a messenger . Do you accept ? You will be paid well .
MOZART: How much ?
SALIERI: Fifty ducats . Another fifty when I have the Mass . Do you accept ?
MOZART: How long will you give me ?
SALIERI: Work fast . And be sure to tell no one what you do . You will see me again soon .
CONSTANZE: Wolfi ? Wolfi !
MOZART: No one .
CONSTANZE: I heard voices . He gives a strange little giggle .
MOZART: I 'm not telling you .
CONSTANZE: Why not ?
MOZART: You 'd think I was mad . He stares at her . She stares at him .
OLD SALIERI: My plan was so simple , it terrified me . First I must get the Death Mass and then achieve the death . Vogler stares at him in horror .
VOGLER: What ?
OLD SALIERI: His funeral - imagine it ! The Cathedral , all Vienna sitting there . His coffin , Mozart 's little coffin in the middle . And suddenly in that silence , music . A divine music bursts out over them all , a great Mass of Death Requiem Mass for Wolfgang Mozart , composed by his devoted friend Antonio Salieri . What sublimity ! What depth ! What passion in the music ! Salieri has been touched by God at last . And God , forced to listen . Powerless - powerless to stop it . I at the end , for once , laughing at Him . Do you understand ? Do you ?
VOGLER: Yes .
OLD SALIERI: The only thing that worried me was the actual killing . How does one do that ? How does one kill a man ? It 's one thing to dream about it . It 's very different when you have to do it , with your own hands .
CONSTANZE: Wolfi . Wolfi !
MOZART: No . Do n't answer it !
CONSTANZE: Why ? Mozart springs up . He is clearly terrified .
MOZART: Tell him I 'm not here . Tell him I 'm working on it . Come back later .
SCHIKANEDER: Am I interrupting something ?
CONSTANZE: Not at all .
SCHIKANEDER: Where 's our friend ?
CONSTANZE: He 's not in . But he 's working on it . He said to tell you .
SCHIKANEDER: I hope so . I need it immediately . He pushes her into the room .
MOZART: Leave that alone !
SCHIKANEDER: Wolfi !
MOZART: Put it down !
SCHIKANEDER: What is this ?
MOZART: Put it down , I said ! It 's nothing for you .
SCHIKANEDER: Oh ! I 'm sorry ! I 'm sorry ! What have you got for me ? Is it finished ?
MOZART: What ?
SCHIKANEDER: What ? The vaudeville , what 'd you think ?
MOZART: Yes .
SCHIKANEDER: Can I see it ?
MOZART: No .
SCHIKANEDER: Why not ?
MOZART: Because there 's nothing to see .
SCHIKANEDER: Look , I asked you if we could start ehearsal next week and you said yes .
MOZART: Well , we can .
SCHIKANEDER: So let me see it . Where is it ?
MOZART: Here . It 's all right here , in my noodle . The rest is just scribbling . Scribbling and bibbling . Bibbling and scribbling . Would you like a drink ?
SCHIKANEDER: Look , you little clown , do you know how many people I 've hired for you ? Do you know how many people are waiting ?
CONSTANZE: Leave him alone !
SCHIKANEDER: I 'm paying these people . Do you ealize that ?
CONSTANZE: He 's doing his best .
SCHIKANEDER: I 'm paying people just to wait fo you . It 's ridiculous !
CONSTANZE: You know what 's ridiculous ? You libretto , that 's what 's ridiculous . Only an idiot would ask Wolfi to work on that stuff !
SCHIKANEDER: Oh yes ? And what 's so intelligent about writing a Requiem ?
CONSTANZE: Money ! Money !
SCHIKANEDER: You 're mad ! She 's mad , Wolfi .
CONSTANZE: Oh yes , and who are you ? He 's worked for Kings . For the Emperor . Who are you ?
SCHIKANEDER: Listen , Wolfi . Write it . Please . Just write it down . On paper . It 's no good to anyone in your head . And fuck the Death Mass .
SALIERI: Now calm yourself . Calm . What 's the matter with you ?
LORL: I 'm leaving . I 'm not working there anymore . I 'm scared !
SALIERI: Why ? What has happened ?
LORL: You do n't know what it 's like . He Mozart frightens me . He drinks all day , then takes all that medicine and it makes him worse .
SALIERI: What medicine ?
LORL: I do n't know . He has pains .
SALIERI: Where ?
LORL: Here , in his stomach . They bend him ight over .
SALIERI: Is he working ?
LORL: I 'm frightened , sir . Really ! When he speaks , he does n't make any sense . You know he said he saw - he said he saw his father . And his father 's dead .
SALIERI: Is he working ?
LORL: I suppose so . He sits there all he time , doing some silly opera .
SALIERI: Opera ? Opera !
LORL: Please do n't ask me to go back again . I 'm frightened ! I 'm very , very frightened .
SALIERI: Are you sure it 's an opera ?
MOZART: I do n't have it yet . It 's not finished . I 'm sorry , but I need more time .
SALIERI: Are you neglecting my request ?
MOZART: No , no ! I promise you , I 'll give you a wonderful piece - the best I eve can !
CONSTANZE: Oh yes , sir . He 's all right . And he 's working on it very hard .
MOZART: Give me two more weeks . Please . Salieri contemplates them both .
SALIERI: The sooner you finish , the bette your reward . Work !
CONSTANZE: Wolfi , I think you really are going mad . You work like a slave for that idiot actor who wo n't give you a penny and here . This is not a ghost ! This is a real man who puts down eal money . Why on earth do n't you finish it ? He will not look at her or reply .
MOZART: I ca n't write it !
CONSTANZE: Why not ?
MOZART: It 's killing me . He looks at her suddenly .
CONSTANZE: No , this is really awful . You 're drunk , are n't you ? Be honest - tell me - you 've been drinking . And I 'm so stupid I stay here and listen to you ! Suddenly she starts to cry .
MOZART: Go back to bed .
CONSTANZE: Please ! Let me sit here . Let me stay here with you . I promise I wo n't say all word . I 'll just be here , so you know no one 's going to hurt you . Please , please ! She sits down tearfully , staring at him .
MOZART: Stanzi ? Stanzi-marini-bini ? He looks about him , puzzled .
FRAU WEBER: She 's not coming back , you know . She 's gone for good . I did it and I 'm proud of it . 'Leave , ' I said . 'Right away ! Take he child and go , just go . Here 's the money ! Go to the Spa and get your health back - that 's if you can . ' I was shocked . Shocked to my foundation . Is that my girl ? Can that be my Stanzi ? The happy little moppet I brought up , that poor trembling thing ? Oh , you monster ! No one exists but you , do they ? You and your music ! Do you know how often she 's sat in that very chair , weeping her eyes out of her head because of you ? I warned her . 'Choose a man , not a baby , ' I said . But would she listen ? Who listens ? 'He 's just a silly boy , ' she says . Silly , my arse . Selfish - that 's all you are . Selfish ! Selfish , selfish , selfish , selfish , selfish .
VOICE: Go back ! Papageno recoils .
PAPAGENO: Merciful Gods ! If only I knew by which door I came in . Which was it ? Was it this one ? Come on , tell me !
VOICE: Go back ! Papageno recoils .
PAPAGENO: Now , I ca n't go forward and I ca n't go back . Oh , this is awful ! He weeps extravagantly .
FIRST PRIEST: Man , thou hast deserved to wande forever in the darkest chasms of the earth . The gentle Gods have remitted thy punishment , but yet thou shalt never feel the Divine Content of the consecrated ones .
PAPAGENO: Oh well , I 'm not alone in that . Just give me a decent glass of wine - that 's divine content enough for me .
FIRST PRIEST: Man , hast thou no other desire on earth , but just to eat and drink ?
PAPAGENO: Well ! Laughter from the audience .
ANDANTE: A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno 's wish . A willing , illing , lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish . Be my most tasty little dish ! Be my most tasty little dish !
ALLEGRO: Then that would be eating and drinking I 'd live like a Prince without thinking . The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman 's much better than wine ! Then that would be eating and drinking ! The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman 's much better than wine . She 's much better than wine ! She 's much better than wine !
ANDANTE: A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno 's wish . A willing , illing , lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish .
ALLEGRO: I need to net one birdie only And I will stop feeling so lonely . But if she wo n't fly to my aid , Then into a ghost I must fade . I need to net one irdie only But if she wo n't fly to my aid , Then into a ghost I must fade . To a ghost I must fade ! To a ghost I must fade !
ANDANTE: A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno 's wish . A willing , illing , lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish .
ALLEGRO: At present the girls only peck me . Their cruelty surely will wreck me . But one little beak in my own , And I 'll up to heaven be flown ! At present the girls only peck me . But one little eak in my own , And I 'll up to heaven e flown . Up to heaven be flown ! Up to heaven be flown !
SALIERI: I 'll take care of him . He steps forward .
PAPAGENO: What ? Who the devil are you ?
MOZART: What happened ? Is it over ?
SALIERI: I 'm taking you home . You 're not well .
MOZART: No , no . I have to get back . I have -
SALIERI: Thank you . Go . The porter leaves the room . Mozart stirs .
MOZART: Papa ! Papa !
SALIERI: Come now .
MOZART: Not here ! She 's not well , either . She went to the Spa .
SALIERI: You mean she 's not coming back ?
MOZART: You 're so good to me . Truly . Thank you .
SALIERI: No , please .
MOZART: I mean to come to my opera . You are the only colleague who did .
SALIERI: I would never miss anything that you had written . You must know that .
MOZART: This is only a vaudeville .
SALIERI: Oh no . It is a sublime piece . The grandest operone . I tell you , you are the greatest composer known to me .
MOZART: Do you mean that ?
SALIERI: I do .
MOZART: I have bad fancies . I do n't sleep well anymore . Then I drink too much , and think stupid things .
SALIERI: Are you ill ?
MOZART: The doctor thinks I am . But -
SALIERI: What ?
MOZART: I 'm too young to be so sick .
SALIERI: Shall I answer it ?
MOZART: No ! No , it 's him !
SALIERI: Who ?
MOZART: The man . He 's here .
SALIERI: What man ?
MOZART: Tell him to go away . Tell him I 'm still working on it . Do n't let him in ! Salieri moves to the door .
SALIERI: Finish what ?
MOZART: He knows . He knows ! Salieri leaves the room .
SCHIKANEDER: Herr Salieri .
SALIERI: Yes , I am looking after him .
SCHIKANEDER: Can we come in ?
SALIERI: Well , he 's sleeping now . Better not .
SCHIKANEDER: But he 's all right ?
SALIERI: Oh , yes . He 's just exhausted . He ecame dizzy , that 's all . We should let him rest .
SCHIKANEDER: Well , tell him we were here , wo n't you ?
SALIERI: Of course .
SCHIKANEDER: And say everything went wonderfully . A triumph-de-luxe - say that ! Tell him the audience shouted his name a hundred times .
SALIERI: Bene .
SCHIKANEDER: I 'll call tomorrow .
SALIERI: Yes . And congratulations to all of you . It was superb .
ACTRESSES: Thank you ! Thank you , Excellency ! Schikaneder produces a bag of money .
SCHIKANEDER: Oh , by the way , give him this . This is his share . That should cheer him up , eh ?
SALIERI: Yes , indeed . Goodnight to you all now . It was perfection - truly !
ACTRESSES: Goodnight , Your Excellency . Goodnight !
MOZART: What happened ?
SALIERI: He said to give you this . And if you finish the work by tomorrow night , he will pay you another hundred ducats . Mozart looks at the coins astonished .
MOZART: Another ? But that 's too soon ! Tomorrow night ? It 's impossible ! Did he say a hundred ?
SALIERI: Yes . Can I - could I help you , in any way ?
MOZART: Would you ? Actually , you could .
SALIERI: My dear friend , it would be my greatest pleasure .
MOZART: But you 'd have to swear not to tell a soul . I 'm not allowed .
SALIERI: Of course .
MOZART: You know , it 's all here in my head . It 's just ready to be set down . But when I 'm dizzy like this my eyes wo n't focus . I ca n't write .
SALIERI: Then , let us try together . I 'd regard it as such an honour . Tell me , what is this work ?
MOZART: A Mass . A Mass for the Dead .
OFFICER: What is it ?
CONSTANZE: I want to go !
OFFICER: Where ?
CONSTANZE: I want to go back to Vienna .
OFFICER: Now ?
CONSTANZE: Yes !
OFFICER: Why ?
CONSTANZE: I feel wrong . I feel wrong being here .
OFFICER: What are you talking about ?
MOZART: Where did I stop ?
SALIERI: The end of the Recordare - Statuens in parte dextra .
MOZART: So now the Confutatis . Confutatis Maledictis . When the wicked are confounded . Flammis acribus addictis . How would you translate that ?
SALIERI: Consigned to flames of woe .
MOZART: Do you believe in it ?
SALIERI: What ?
MOZART: A fire which never dies . Burning one forever ?
SALIERI: Oh , yes .
MOZART: Strange !
SALIERI: Come . Let 's begin . He takes his pen .
MOZART: We ended in F Major ?
SALIERI: Yes .
MOZART: So now - A minor . Suddenly . Salieri writes the key signature .
SALIERI: What time ?
MOZART: Common time .
SALIERI: Yes .
MOZART: Third measure , second beat starting on E. Flam-mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis . And fourth measure , fourth beat - D. Ma-le-dic-tis , flam-mis a-cri-bus ad- dic-tis . Do you have that ?
SALIERI: I think so .
MOZART: Sing it back .
SALIERI: Yes .
MOZART: Fourth measure , second beat - F. Flam-mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis , flam- mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis .
SALIERI: Please ! Just one moment .
MOZART: It could n't be simpler .
SALIERI: First bassoon and tenor trombone - what ?
MOZART: With the tenors .
SALIERI: Also identical ?
MOZART: Exactly . The instruments to go with the voices . Trumpets and timpani , tonic and dominant .
SALIERI: And that 's all ?
MOZART: Oh no . Now for the Fire . Strings in unison - ostinato on all - like this .
SALIERI: I think so .
MOZART: Show me .
SALIERI: That 's wonderful !
MOZART: Yes , yes - go on . The Voca Me . Suddenly sotto voce . Write that down sotto voce , pianissimo . Voca me cum enedictis . Call me among the blessed .
SALIERI: Sopranos up to F on the second 'Voca ' ?
MOZART: Yes , and on 'dictis ' .
SALIERI: Yes ! He writes feverishly .
MOZART: And underneath , just violins - arpeggio .
SALIERI: You go fast !
MOZART: Do you have it ?
SALIERI: Yes .
MOZART: Then let me hear it . All of it . The whole thing from the beginning - now !
SALIERI: Oh no . I 'm not tired at all .
MOZART: We 'll stop for just a moment . Then we 'll do the Lacrimosa .
SALIERI: I can keep going , I assure you . Shall we try ?
MOZART: Would you stay with me while I sleep a little ?
SALIERI: I 'm not leaving you .
MOZART: I am so ashamed .
SALIERI: What for ?
MOZART: I was foolish . I thought you did not care for my work - or me . Forgive me . Forgive me !
CONSTANZE: What are you doing here ?
SALIERI: Your husband is ill , ma'am . He took sick . I brought him home .
CONSTANZE: Why you ?
SALIERI: I was at hand .
CONSTANZE: Well , thank you very much . You can go now .
SALIERI: He needs me , ma'am .
CONSTANZE: No , he does n't . And I do n't want you here . Just go , please .
SALIERI: He asked me to stay .
CONSTANZE: And I 'm asking you -
SALIERI: No . I was assisting him . He asked me .
CONSTANZE: He 's not going to work on this anymore . It is making him ill . Please .
SALIERI: But - but - but - She turns and faces him .
CONSTANZE: Good night . He stares at her , stunned .
SALIERI: Madame , I will respect his . He asked me to stay here .
CONSTANZE: Wolfi ? Wolfi ?
VOGLER: Why ? Why ? Why ? Why add to your misery y confessing to murder ? You did n't kill him .
OLD SALIERI: I did .
VOGLER: No , you did n't !
OLD SALIERI: I poisoned his life .
VOGLER: But not his body .
OLD SALIERI: What difference does that make ?
VOGLER: My son , why should you want all Vienna to believe you a murderer ? Is that your penance ? Is it ?
OLD SALIERI: No , Father . From now on no one will e able to speak of Mozart without thinking of me . Whenever they say Mozart with love , they 'll have to say Salieri with loathing . And that 's my immortality - at last ! Our names will be tied together for eternity - his in fame and mine in infamy . At least it 's better than the total oblivion he 'd planned for me , you merciful God !
VOGLER: Oh my son , my poor son !
OLD SALIERI: Do n't pity me . Pity yourself . You serve a wicked God . He killed Mozart , not I . Took him , snatched him away , without pity . He destroyed His beloved ather than let a mediocrity like me get the smallest share in his glory . He does n't care . Understand that . God cares nothing for the man He denies and nothing either for the man He uses . He broke Mozart in half when He 'd finished with him , and threw him away . Like an old , worn out flute .
LOCAL PRIEST: The Lord giveth . The Lord taketh away . Blessed be the name of the Lord .
OLD SALIERI: Why did He do it ? Why did n't He kill me ? I had no value . What was the use , keeping me alive for thirty-two years of torture ? Thirty-two years of honours and awards .
ATTENDANT: Good morning , Professor ! Time fo the water closet . And then we 've got your favourite breakfast for you - sugar-rolls . He loves those . Fresh sugar-rolls .
OLD SALIERI: Goodbye , Father . I 'll speak for you . I speak for all mediocrities in the world . I am their champion . I am their patron saint . On their behalf I deny Him , your God of no mercy . Your God who tortures men with longings they can never fulfill . He may forgive me I shall never forgive Him .
FRED: Actually . I knew that the moment I met ol ' George . He sips his drink . She says nothing .
AMELIA: That why I get so many chances to not do it ?
FRED: Well . Natural curiosity .
AMELIA: He thought I hated him . He neve knew I was fascinated .
GEORGE: The first time I met her she sat in that chair .
GEORGE: Miss Earhart ?
AMELIA: Mr. Putnam ? GEORGE I asked you to sit .
GEORGE: A Ah . Well , stand if you like . melia sits .
AMELIA: I do .
GEORGE: In the 12 months since Lindbergh , 55 people in 18 planes have tried . Three planes made it . Fourteen people have died .
AMELIA: I 'll make it .
GEORGE: Three women died trying . Two others escaped with their lives . If you do make it , you 'd be the first . Whichis the real attraction for both of us , I suspect . She nods . No smile .
AMELIA: Always nice to know what the real attraction is .
GEORGE: The plane was bought from Adm. Byrd y Amy Guest , a socialite who wanted the record for herself . He family would n't tolerate the danger . She has asked for a eplacement He gestures . Perhaps you .
AMELIA: Why would that matter ?
GEORGE: Because she wants the world to pay attention . And pretty girls command more attention .
AMELIA: Was that your advice ?
GEORGE: Sure . My role is selling this event to the public . There will be a contract for the girl 's story with the New York Times . Also a ook to be published over her name . Understood ? G
AMELIA: Except for the part that goes to you .
GEORGE: Which will be as great as I can manage , I assure you .
AMELIA: You said she wants a flyer .
GEORGE: Do n't get your hopes up . The celebrated Wilmer Stultz will be the pilot . There 'll be a male co- pilot and navigator . The woman will be purely a passenger .
AMELIA: Why would anyone want a book from a passenger ?
GEORGE: Because the hook is that we 're making the woman the commander . The pilot will sign a contract saying he is under her direction and control . It 's her ship , he flight .
AMELIA: Good for my chances , you said . What are my chan
GEORGE: The job 's yours . She blinks . Stunned speechless .
AMELIA: You 're a busy man , Mr. Putnam . I can find my way .
GEORGE: I honestly feel an apology is in order .
AMELIA: Fine . What have I done ? She watches his smile .
GEORGE: I mean an apology . For what 's coming . His voice softens .
AMELIA: We .
GEORGE: That 's right . If you 're not in there selling with me , it wo n't work . The smile turns friendly .
AMELIA: Spoken like a gentleman .
MELIA: Girls , this is Mr. Samuel Chapman . Sam , say hullo to the Octopus Club .
AMELIA: They are , actually .
SAM: And it 's a secret .
AMELIA: Has to be . Competition , you know . Millionaire heiresses , hot shot girl pilots . If George knew I told you , he 'd have me publicly flogged .
SAM: And no one else knows .
AMELIA: Marion . She 's giving me a leave of absence .
SAM: I would think so . Your name will e in all the papers , and not just Boston . Denison House stands to come in for funding , national attention .
AMELIA: Specially if I do n't make it .
SAM: Do n't joke about that . She was n't joking at all .
AMELIA: Well , I 'll have impressive credentials as a long-distance passenger . That 's not exactly a career in aviation . She looks up at his eyes .
SAM: And where does that leave us ?
AMELIA: You do love to look on the dark side . Whatever did you see in a sunny character like me ?
SAM: It 's not as if I 'd been putting pressure on you .
AMELIA: What love means to you . What it equires . Is the pressure . He stops walking .
SAM: I love you . Is that such a terrible problem ? She gazes at him . Can he even hear this ?
AMELIA: The problem is what it 's always een . The problem is me .
MABEL: Okay , boys . I 'll take any questions you wan na throw my way . Except about what 's behind this sweater . The boys ROAR . Mabel keeps her smile tight .
GEORGE: Boys , I 'd like to introduce you commander , Miss Amelia Earhart .
AMELIA: We felt ` commander ' was less grandiose than , say , ` empress . ' Bill does n't smile . The other man does
GEORGE: Say hello to Slim Gordon you navigator .
GEORGE: Nope , those are new , personally suggested by the old man himself . Bill nods on that . Sure were .
AMELIA: Hmmn . What does that do to ou fuel ?
BILL: Costs us at least 400 gallons . Do n't bother bringing clothes fo Paris , we 'll be lucky to hit the nearest beach in Ireland . Real lucky .
GEORGE: The Admiral estimates the pontoons only cut our range by 200 miles .
BILL: The Admiral is the Admiral . He gets to estimate any damn thing he wants . All we have to do is figure out how to fly without petrol . She turns to George with challenging eyes .
AMELIA: I wonder if it can keep them up there . Not that I 've ever had enough to try .
GEORGE: What I ought to try . Is listening to you once in awhile .
AMELIA: Careful . I could get to like it .
GEORGE: Simpkin .
AMELIA: It 's in a book . Oh , that 's right . You read the ones you publish .
AMELIA: What are you boys doing over there ?
GEORGE: Trying to make you look like a girl .
EORGE: he more we can make you look like a girl , the better .
AMELIA: Oh god , is it worth the effort ?
GEORGE: Wondering who should play you in the film of all this . I 'm thinking Chaplin .
AMELIA: Valentino 's not available ?
GEORGE: Amelia Earhart , this is Dorothy Binney Putnam .
DOROTHY: Great to meet you . George talks so much about you . In fact , lately , you 're all he does talk about .
PHOTOGRAPHER: Hold those smiles for one more , please .
AMELIA: Popping off letters . For my dad , my mom , my sis . You know . In case .
GEORGE: I 'm honored . That you 'd leave these with me .
AMELIA: Who else ? If I do pop off , it 's your fault .
GEORGE: I 'll call them once you 're safely on your way .
AMELIA: Sam will handle that . They trust him . That registers .
GEORGE: I 've figured out the Simpkin thing , you know .
AMELIA: Have you .
GEORGE: Sure . There are so few books I have n't published , it was easy to find . Well ?
AMELIA: But why is he you ? Oh .
GEORGE: He 's brilliant , charismatic
AMELIA: So you have n't actually read it . Do you actually read ?
GEORGE: neurotic , compulsive , manipulative . Am I getting warmer ? She sighs .
AMELIA: Hi there , boys . How are the ham and eggs ?
BILL: Do n't blame us , lady . I think somebody 's starting to sell books .
EPORTER: Say , Amelia . What have you got fo Mabel Boll to chew on ?
AMELIA: Now why would a famous gal like Mabel give a thought to someone like me ? I do n't have a single sweater made out of gold .
BILL: The ham 's a little tough , Commander . But the bacon 's swell .
MABEL: Well , how would any woman feel about some tart who steals her man ?
EPORTER: Mabel , are you implying Miss Earhart used her feminine charms on your pilot ?
MABEL: I do n't know , Charlie , I never seen her . Has she got any ?
REPORTER: What makes you so cocky that she wo n't leave first ?
MABEL: Rusty , we can carry enough fuel to go to China . That thing they 're flying ca n't load enough gas to make Yonkers . Tell that to Putnam 's girlie . And while you 're at it She snuggles the gleaming fox fur around her .
BILL: Christ , what time is
AMELIA: Time to fly . Get up , get dressed , we 're going now .
BILL: Where 's the weather report ?
AMELIA: Great . Maybe Mabel will think so , too . Because if she does n't , she 's going to Paris and you 're going home . Today .
ILL: It 's not good enough .
AMELIA: It 's fine , there 's a tail wind all the way , we 'll off-load to 700 gallons , which gets us off the water and the wind gets us to Ireland .
BILL: We 've had better than this and we have n't gone .
AMELIA: But this is the day Mabel 's ready , so we 're going now . The weathe is going to get better and we 'll e there to enjoy it .
BILL: You 're serious .
AMELIA: Just as serious as you 're hung over . You go now , get the late weather , we 'll meet you at the plane .
QUIET: Slim , get out . I 've got this .
AMELIA: Good . Slim , start the engines .
BILL: Have a nice flight .
AMELIA: Thanks .
SLIM: Hey , I 'm scared shitless of this dame . She climbs up after him . One look back
AMELIA: Read tomorrow 's papers , Bill . We 'll both be in them .
BILL: Mr. Putnam phoned . He says there 's fella coming from London . Hilton Railey .
AMELIA: Oh , yeh . Very important man . More important than any of us . Really ? Yep .
BILL: He says ya must n't come ashore til he gets here . No matter what .
AMELIA: Public relations . Goes back to work . DISSOLVE TO
SHERIFF: Sorry Ma'am . Shoulda brought more men .
AMELIA: No , really , this is very sweet , it 's an honor . I 'm actually enjoying it .
SHERIFF: That 's a good thing . She looks at him as they are jostled along .
AMELIA: Hullo , Hilton .
AILEY: Amelia , say hullo to Allen Raymond of the New York Times .
AMELIA: I believe you 've come for these .
REPORTER: But you can fly , ca n't you ?
AMELIA: This flight was solely to the credit of Bill and Slim . Women should know , however , that I have had 500 hours solo flying and once held the women 's altitude record .
REPORTER: So you could have done it yourself !
AMELIA: This particular flight , under these conditions , I wonder if anyone but Bill Stultz could have pulled it off . But certainly , one day a woman will do this . As easily , as skillfully , as professionally as any man .
AMELIA: Guess you can burn those letters . Dorothy wonders . Letters ?
GEORGE: I saved them for your book .
AMELIA: The book 's yours . The letters are mine . He smiles . Bows in submission .
GEORGE: ou 're the boss .
DOROTHY: Hey , that 's my job . Do you think there 's enough of him to boss for the two of us ? Amelia still looking at George . Laughs .
AMELIA: Barely enough for one .
REPORTER: Miss Earhart , can you tell us some- thing about your future plans ?
AMELIA: Well , being a social worker by trade and passion , I 'll be going ack to work at Denison House when all this fun is over .
REPORTER: Mr. Putnam , sir . How did a social worker like Miss Earhart become comfortable as a celebrity so quickly ?
GEORGE: The truth is , she was a celebrity on smaller stages all her life .
GEORGE: Lucky Strike endorsement . I wrote the copy myself .
AMELIA: What does it say ? ` I do n't smoke ut you should ? '
GEORGE: It says Lucky Strikes were the only cigarettes aboard the Friendship . That 's true .
AMELIA: True and misleading . Why would I sign that ?
GEORGE: So Bill and Slim get paid .
AMELIA: It 's so good to meet you . I 've een following your career with a great deal of admiration .
ELINOR: Um . Thanks , and . You , too .
AMELIA: Feel like a drink ?
GEORGE: Amelia ! What would her mothe say ?
AMELIA: Relax , George . I meant a Coke .
ELINOR: They 're saying you get $ 500 a week on the lecture circuit .
AMELIA: All depends . On whether you want the sell or the real .
ELINOR: Oh , I do n't underestimate the value of selling . It 's why I 'm here .
GEORGE: A 16-year-old girl sets an altitude ecord , then makes headlines illegally flying under the fou idges of the East River . You do n't seem to need much help selling yourself .
ELINOR: Well , actually Mr. Putnam , I was hoping you could do to me what you 've done to her .
GEORGE: Just so we 're clear , young lady . What is your primary ambition ? ELINOR To take Amelia 's place as the number one female pilot .
AMELIA: Well , good for you ! I would have expected nothing less . You want a tip ?
ELINOR: I do .
AMELIA: Keep doing what you 're doing . The girl nods , seriously . Okay .
GEORGE: Lovely party , huh ?
DOROTHY: Depends on your point of view . I 've been listening to some idiot ag about his girlfriend . Still walking . She never looks at him .
GEORGE: Well , in that case , for you information , it is a lovely party indeed . Anything on your mind ?
DOROTHY: It 's not so much that my husband is having an affair with his meal ticket . It 's just a pity we ca n't have one honest conversation about it .
GEORGE: What 's wrong with this one ? A promising start , I 'd say , in the honesty department .
OROTHY: If this is what you call an honest talk , I 'd say you need some practice .
GEORGE: Great . Let 's try one about you and Fred Upton .
AMELIA: For a long , long time .
GEORGE: It 's different now . She looks at him . Squints . How ?
AMELIA: I ca n't do that .
GEORGE: If you give it a chance , you 'll learn to love me .
AMELIA: I already love you . That 's why I ca n't marry you . GEORGE Well , that explains it . For a minute there , I thought you were stuck for an excuse .
AMELIA: I know me . And you do n't . Not eally .
GEORGE: What if I promise not to learn ?
AMELIA: The day will come . When I will run away . And when it does He stops her with a kiss .
GEORGE: If you love me . I 'll take my chances .
ELINOR: Wish I was important enough fo you to manage .
GEORGE: Well , I 've just got one client . And most days she 's more than I can manage .
ELINOR: Get in line behind the boys she smacked around on the Derby . He grins back . You bet .
GEORGE: And both of those things . Are the S reasons I called you . trange words . He has her attention .
ELINOR: I 'm not sure she has much of a chance , Mr. Putnam .
GEORGE: Well , the one shot would be putting her in a far more powerful plane than anything she 's flown . We 're thinking the Lockheed Vega . The girl 's shock . He really means this .
ELINOR: Sir , I 've test piloted the Vega . It 's way more than she could eve handle . It would n't be safe , let alone successful . He smiles .
GEORGE: That 's why I 'm thinking of you flying with her . You could handle the cross-country flying , the more difficult bits , and I 'd pay you $ 75 a week . Elinor WHISTLES low .
ELINOR: Well , I think that 's the most generous opportunity I 've eve een offered . He stares at her .
GEORGE: There 's just one thing . Obviously , it has to appear that Amelia did all the flying . So when pictures are taken , you 'll stand off to one side . Her eyes narrow . He 's completely serious .
ELINOR: In that case , I 'll get my own plane and win the race myself .
GEORGE: You have n't changed .
ELINOR: That 's a threat .
GEORGE: I 'm an intensely loyal person , Elinor . And this is what my loyalty requires . She 's glaring . Reeling . Trapped .
ELINOR: She 's the one who said I should n't let anybody turn me around .
GEORGE: She probably meant me . So honest , the words confuse her .
ELINOR: Obviously , she does n't see me as a threat .
GEORGE: Oh , sure she does . A straight smile
GEORGE: he told you that I shut her out of the Derby . And that 's true .
AMELIA: And when were you going to tell me ? GEORGE Never . I knew you 'd go crazy . And I felt it needed to be done . She can scarcely believe this .
GEORGE: I did n't say that .
AMELIA: Because I 'm no angel . Business is competition and competition is ough , and I thank my stars that you 're there making this life happen for me , but
GEORGE: ou 're making your life hap
AMELIA: But this is different . It is .
GEORGE: rom here on , I 'll just stab men in he back . A
MELIA: You did n't do this for business , anyway . G
EORGE: I did it for fun ?
AMELIA: You did it because you love me . That stops him .
GEORGE: did . I do .
AMELIA: Well , then . His eyes moving over her face .
GEORGE: What about what you said ? The day S will come when you run away . he nods . It will .
AMELIA: You 'll be destroyed . And part of me will , too . And I think we both know it . And yet .
GEORGE: y Amelia . Brutal in her frank- ness . Beautiful in her honesty .
READING: ` pure suicide for any woman todayit is madness for them to attempt it and ' He looks up to her .
MELIA: I might fly to Paris . Silence .
GEORGE: Which is actually across the Atlantic .
AMELIA: Hence , the article . Ah . He nods .
GEORGE: Not at all . When would you like to go ?
AMELIA: I 'm surprised you 're all right with this
GEORGE: Really .
AMELIA: Mmm-hmmn . I was braced for the lecture . Five years since Lindbergh , no one 's made it solo , so many of them died .
GEORGE: ell , they were only men . This is different .
AMELIA: I was waiting to hear that I 'm only doing this because I was just a passenger last time , and I 'd rathe die than go on living as a fraud..
GEORGE: Of course not . But if I did
AMELIA: I think luck has rules . And I try to respect them . My favorite is She glances up .
GEORGE: Do you have money ?
AMELIA: No .
EORGE: Sure .
AMELIA: Thank god , I thought you were going to tear it in half .
GEORGE: I spent our money on ocean line passage to go bring you back . It 's non-refundable . So try to do you part .
AMELIA: I put it in a letter . Which you 'll get if I do n't make it . Somixed emotions , huh ? He shakes his head . GEORGE Either way , something to look forward to .
AMELIA: Excuse me , sir . Where am I ? A blink . The truth
MAN: In Gallagher 's pasture .
AMELIA: When I left , I was aiming fo Paris . Oh . MAN Ya missed , y'know .
GEORGE: ell , I 'm glad someone besides me finally noticed .
AMELIA: Well , it reminds me how much I owe to the men of this world . Keeps me humble .
GEORGE: ood . And remembering how little you owe me keeps me humble . And softly
AMELIA: That 's not enough .
GEORGE: Most of them are women . And fo them , it 's very much enough . She shakes her head .
AMELIA: The World Telegram said , ` a magnificent display of useless courage . '
GEORGE: The question is . Can any magnif- icent display of courage be use- less ? A
MELIA: The point is . Men do it every day . And no one throws a parade . Ah . Well
GEORGE: One day closer , then . To the day when they wo n't think to throw one for you . She does n't turn . She does n't smile .
AMELIA: Reasoning with me . A magnificent display of useless courage . He nods to himself .
GEORGE: And . It 's fun . From the stage
AMELIA: Ladies .
GEORGE: Do n't tell me Gene wants to esurrect Transcontinental ?
AMELIA: No , he 's starting a shuttle service . Washington , New York , Boston
GEORGE: Gene 's a dashing guy . He could talk anyone into anything . Their look holds .
GENE: Transcontinental was too ambitious . Too many hops , too tough on the ladies . But the shuttle
AMELIA: What on earth would you need me for ?
PAUL: Has n't George taught you anything ? Lady Lindy , the queen of the air , the best known woman in the entire U.S. of A ?
GENE: I 'm rattling on here , and you 've got a morning train .
AMELIA: How 's Nina doing ?
GENE: Oh , fine . Really ? He smiles , gently .
AMELIA: If you two get bored , I could tag along sometimes .
GENE: You suggesting you 're less boring than I am ?
AMELIA: Well , yeh .
GENE: Gore would love that . He has a little crush , I 'm afraid .
AMELIA: At seven ?
GENE: He 's eight .
AMELIA: Are you kidding , it 's a godsend . No matter how hard George and I work , how many lectures we cram in , there 's never enough money for the next adventure .
GENE: The next adventure . What is it ? She shrugs . No idea .
AMELIA: Wish you 'd do something about that .
GENE: I 'm serious , Amelia . Her soft smile .
AMELIA: I know . Always .
GENE: The only way you can stay where you are . And be who you are Serious indeed .
AMELIA: We do n't have to .
GENE: With all respect . Yes , you do .
AMELIA: For understanding .
MELIA: So he has n't actually forbidden you .
ELEANOR: Franklin does n't forbid . He just feels it 's a waste of my valuable ime to learn . Since I ca n't afford to buy a plane .
AMELIA: The wrong Roosevelt got elected .
ELEANOR: And it will take at least fou years to correct the mistake . Keeps eating .
AMELIA: I think the structure may be less important than the man chosen to un it . Said casually , looking at her plate .
ELEANOR: My hearing is failing . I missed the words ` or woman , ' which you undoubtedly added after , or per- haps before , the word ` man . '
AMELIA: his could be one of those rare instances . When the most accomplished candidate . Turns out to be male . Glances up for the reaction .
ELEANOR: How exciting . I love finding the exception that proves the rule . Is t a name I know ? Amelia 's straight gaze . Her small smile .
AMELIA: How do you feel about flying at night ?
ELEANOR: I 've never done it . Franklin finds t dangerous .
AMELIA: Outstanding .
ELEANOR: Dear God .
AMELIA: I feel like a Coke . Can I get you something ?
ROOSEVELT: Today , we proudly announce an appointment critical to America 's commerce , and to its role as technology 's leader in the Twentieth Century .
AMELIA: Have I told you what a perfect jo ou did on the peonies ? They 're miraculous .
AMELIA: Sorry .
GEORGE: It 's all right . You 've been distracted lately . No spin on that . If G anything , the tone is kind .
AMELIA: When are you leaving ?
GEORGE: Thing is . I 'd like you to come .
AMELIA: I do n't really see how I can .
GEORGE: I 've talked to the promoters , they 'll switch some lecture dates for us .
AMELIA: Well , it 's not just that . There 's y work on the shuttle , we 're at a critical stage , andI 've just started as Gene 's consultant at the Aeronautics Branch
GEORGE: Normally , I 'd be worried about leaving you here alone . But I suppose that wo n't be a problem , will it ?
AMELIA: What are you trying to say ?
GEORGE: I think I 've just said it .
AMELIA: I ca n't think of anything helpful . He nods . Well , then . Rises slowly
BEAT: Yeh . What 's today been like ? You still okay ?
EORGE: I found something you 'd written . Draws a breath . Reads
AMELIA: I suppose I thought . It was too evealing .
GENE: If you do n't drink , why do you come o bars ?
AMELIA: Must be the ambience . And the nuts .
GENE: What worries me is , in some of these bars the nuts are the ambience . Specially when they make a pass at you .
AMELIA: Any guy would have to be nuts to do that . I 'm considerable trouble , if you have n't noticed .
GENE: You keep advertising that , but I 'm still waiting to see it .
AMELIA: You 'll see it .
GENE: Well , here 's your chance . I 'm taking Gore to the conference in Bermuda . He wants you to come .
AMELIA: Gore , huh ?
GENE: Sure . I 'm completely indifferent .
AMELIA: I wish . Do you ?
GENE: That 's a wonderful idea . Especially now . Something in the way he said that .
AMELIA: What 's special about now ?
GENE: A good time for some positive press about you as a role model . Her eyes harden . Whatever do you mean ?
AMELIA: Not unless someone makes me .
GENE: Well , someone should . Because they 're all saying you took ecklessly dangerous solo flights for no earthly purpose except publicity . Meaning , money . Dead . Silence . G
AMELIA: How thoughtless of me to be doing ll this in a society where no one else is interested in making money . Present company included . He 's not afraid of her .
GENE: Look , George had you taking money om the sugar cartel for the Hawaii flight , the Mexican Government for theirs , he 's selling commemorative stamps which you carried on the flights
AMELIA: If this is about George , just say o . Because we made those calls , nd we includes me .
GENE: I 'm sorry I said it that way . This s actually about you , because I 'm picking a fight , apparently a useless one , for the benefit of someone I care about .
AMELIA: And what 's your point ? Women are eld to some higher standard ? Bankers and industrialists are ad- mired for succeeding , but women are just considered selfish and grasping ? ENE Of course they are .
GENE: If you want to make money , my guess s that people viewing you as Lady Lindy , America 's Sweetheart of the Skies , the wife/mother/daughte they all wished they had . Would be helpful .
AMELIA: Thanks for the tip .
GENE: Thanks for not being defensive . Full beat .
AMELIA: Well , I 'm an open-minded girl . And o prove it , I 'm hereby resigning as your consultant at the S Aeronautics Branch .
AMELIA: He says he 's the man in your life .
GIRLS: They love when we say ` yes . ' Laughter .
BEAT: Me , too .
AMELIA: Are you going to tell me you surprise , or do I have to get physical ?
GEORGE: Boy , that is the last thing I 'd want . Well , then ?
AMELIA: Except it would have to be an Electra , and they cost
GEORGE: $ 36,000 . After a generous discount from Lockheed .
AMELIA: May as well be a billion .
GEORGE: not to mention at least anothe 36 to get it modified and ready .
AMELIA: And your surprise is , you robbed a ank .
GEORGE: Actually . A university . They stop . What on earth ?
AMELIA: Think I could help ? He looks in her eyes .
GEORGE: Nah . She grins .
AMELIA: Cat food . A whole case .
AMELIA: As President Elliot has said , it would be a shining adventure , eckoning with new experiences . Making me more useful to the program here at Purdue . She looks into the eyes of each in turn
GORE: So you 'd be the first one , right ? ou always like that . First one ?
AMELIA: Well , there 's Magellan , 400 years go . Actually , he did n't make it . And he died . And he used a boat .
GORE: So it 's almost the same , except it 's completely different .
AMELIA: Pretty much . He glowers at her . She glowers back .
GENE: There are men who say they flew around the world , but they did n't ly around all of it .
GORE: Because at higher latitudes , it 's short trip . At the North Pole , ou just spin in a circle and you 've gone around the world .
AMELIA: So why are you asking ? Just to show how smart you are ?
GORE: Pretty much .
AMELIA: No one 's tried it . You think I should ? No answer .
GORE: Okay .
AMELIA: Okay . Is she serious ? She seems to be .
GENE: Ask her about the Pacific . The maximum range of the Electra is 4000 miles . And the closest land est of Honolulu is farther than that . Gore looks to her . Well ?
AMELIA: I 'll have to refuel .
GORE: Where ?
AMELIA: In the air . One plane to another . The boy is staring at her now . Staring .
GORE: You 're really going to do all this , are n't you ?
AMELIA: Well , do n't you think I can ? A beat .
GORE: I guess we 'll find out .
AMELIA: Pretty much . HOLD on Gene . He smiles at his kid
GENE: Go out to the car and get Sara . Ask if she 'll take you for an ice cream . Okay ?
AMELIA: We 'll play some cards before you leave .
ENE: You ca n't refuel in the air . Just like that .
AMELIA: s that an opinion or an order ? His rueful smile .
GENE: The only good thing about losing our former relationship is I feel a little freer to tell you when you 're being completely crazy .
AMELIA: Oh , I bet there are more advantages than just that . No one 's backing down on this .
GENE: You 're not a good enough pilot to o mid-air refueling . You will not be able to control the Electra or that docking maneuver for that amount of time .
AMELIA: I 've taken bigger risks .
GENE: I 've noticed . Do n't be so proud of it .
AMELIA: It 's your vacation home .
GENE: We 're colonizing it , because when the Japanese make their move , we 're going to need a refueling strip there . She blinks . The Japanese .
AMELIA: Hullo , Fred . It 's good to meet you .
FRED: I hear you like your coffee black .
AMELIA: This time of day , I like it with acon and eggs . His slight grin . A handsome guy .
FRED: Be right back .
AMELIA: Over easy on the eggs . Your jo could depend on it .
FRED: Are we sizing me up ?
AMELIA: I 'm told that mid-air refueling would be beyond my abilities .
FRED: Maybe , maybe not . 20 % it works . 0 % you crash . 60 % you do n't get he fuel , so you 're cooked anyway .
AMELIA: Better odds of hitting that island ?
RED: How do you feel about 100 % ?
AMELIA: Even with cloud cover ?
FRED: I 've crossed the Pacific by air 18 times . Pan Am told you I 'm the est celestial navigator they 've ever seen .
AMELIA: They did .
FRED: Someone else told you I have a drinking problem . Which is a big art of why we 're here , yes ? No answer .
AMELIA: My dad drank . He lied all the time . Rest his soul .
FRED: You trusted Bill Stultz . That worked out . Rest his soul .
AMELIA: Bill just had to find Europe . We 're looking for something less than two miles long , with nothing higher on it than 18 feet . He shakes his head .
FRED: That 's what you 're looking for . I 'm looking for coordinates on a map . And if it does n't work He spreads his large hands
AMELIA: Did I pressure the navy to build a landing strip at Howland Island ? How exactly would I do that ? L Threaten not to enlist ? aughter in the room . More flashes .
REPORTER #1: Amelia , what do you say to the charges that your husband is pulling the strings , pressuring you nto this around-the-world flight o make a financial killing ?
GEORGE: Wait a minute , you 're flying around the world ? Do n't you know a woman 's place is in the home ? ? The press ROARS with laughter .
REPORTER #2: George , why do n't you go along this time ? Watch over the little woman .
GEORGE: I begged to go . But it seems that etween 185 pounds of husband and
REPORTER #3: Experts are saying that this ` flying laboratory ' is a sham . There 's nothing to be learned fo aviation , and you 're just in this for the money . The place gets really quiet .
AMELIA: Who am I to argue with ` experts ? ' I 'll just give you my plain old common-sense thinking on this
FRED: Lovely . We 've got so much fuel we ca n't possibly get off the ground . Much safer than flying .
AMELIA: Well , we need enough for a third pass at Howland . After you miss it the first couple times around . Ah .
FRED: Good thinking . he runway lights go ON , and
FRED: Good reaction , cutting the switch . You saved our ass .
GEORGE: Three weeks , she 'll be good as new . It 's a remarkable crew . The best
AMELIA: the best that money can buy . I just ca n't believe I 've done this o us . All the money wasted that 's never coming back .
GEORGE: You cut the engines . It would have cost a bundle more to replace a urned-up plane . Not to mention pilot . She shakes her head . No .
AMELIA: I overreacted . The plane was too heavy , I should have used the udder pedal instead of the throttle .
GEORGE: t 's only money , we 'll figure it out . We always do .
AMELIA: I 'll make it back and more , I promise . The book sales , the lectures , this flight will keep us going another three years .
GEORGE: Maybe . Or
AMELIA: No , it will . Our prices , ou sales , are going to double .
SNIFFLES: They thought I was competent . GEORGE I meant . Or maybe we can quit . She looks over . Not sure if
AMELIA: You mean after .
GEORGE: Or . Even now . A strong smile . He nods . We could .
AMELIA: So my exit would be a stupid crash . nd withdrawing from a world- publicized attempt to finally do something no man had done before .
GEORGE: Yeh . That . And it would be fine ith me . Her eyes overwhelmed A his offer . y Her voice soft with
MELIA: But that 's because you 're an idiot .
GEORGE: Lucky for you . A held beat .
AMELIA: And what if it 's not something I have to show the world ? Hmmn ?
GEORGE: Have fun .
AMELIA: Who let you off the hook on this ?
GENE: Thanks for letting me come .
GEORGE: She 'd outvote you all by herself . he does it to me every day .
AMELIA: I do n't have a choice . I have to everse my route and fly east . If go west now , I 'm risking hurricanes in the Caribbean and monsoons in Africa
GENE: But you 're flying Howland last , when you 're exhausted . She knows this . In the silence
EORGE: Gene , this way our first leg is Oakland to Miami . It 's a shakedown o make sure the plane is right . That 's crucial .
GENE: Maybe I 'm obsessing on Howland ecause it was my bright idea , and I 'd feel responsible if
AMELIA: Well , if I do pop off , I 'll try to make it somewhere that 's not your fault .
GENE: I 'd appreciate that . Draws a breath .
AMELIA: But I 'll have Fred so I wo n't miss . In fact , I 'm taking Fred along fo this whole trip .
GENE: You and Fred alone for a month
AMELIA: If you 're worried about his drinking , I 'll deal with it . Straight look .
GENE: How do you feel ?
GEORGE: Tip-top . Every little girl needs a man around . Even strong girls like ours , hmmn ?
AMELIA: I 'll be flying sky no one 's eve een in . You made that happen . She looks down to his easy smile .
GEORGE: Hate to think where you 'd be without me .
AMELIA: I 'll try to make you proud .
GEORGE: You did that long , long ago . Only ne person left to prove yourself o . Just make sure you do it .
AMELIA: And then what ?
GEORGE: Then the best part . The future . She stares in his eyes . Leans to him . AMELIA Oh yeh . That .
AMELIA: If you 'll fly the plane . Make it twenty . And then
GEORGE: We 're saying he 's cruel ?
AMELIA: No .
GEORGE: Controlling ?
AMELIA: Insecure .
GEORGE: Especially the mice .
AMELIA: Exactly . Each poor mouse thinks it 's all about her . Staring at each other .
GEORGE: And one of them . Is right . AMELIA She knows . And then
AMELIA: Do n't you know I could n't ? Even if part of me wanted to . Very , very much . The look holds .
GEORGE: Well , I love you back .
AMELIA: Thanks .
ASS GUESS.': Held look .
AMELIA: That 's more like it . She starts to TURN the plane around .
RED: Black eagles . If one of those clips a propeller . Or flies into the engine Her tired features form a smile .
AMELIA: 've got an idea . Let 's neve land . Better safe than sorry .
FRED: Cream , no sugar .
FRED: Howland Island .
GEORGE: Mrs. Earhart ? Mr. Earhart , here . He looks elegant in crisp suit and tie .
AMELIA: Oh , my goodness . Simpkin , is it eally you ?
GEORGE: It gets worse , I bought a brand-new suit and tie . Got a date with my wife .
AMELIA: We ca n't possibly afford this .
GEORGE: ure , we can . It 's Tuesday 's call o Lae that we ca n't afford . AMELIA You hang up the phone this minute . You 'll bankrupt us and I 'll have to walk home .
AMELIA: ..and it 's fun . HOLD on her face . And MATCH DISSOLVE TO
FRED: A touching love story , really .
AMELIA: An honest one . It 's what you wanted . He nods . That 's right .
FRED: I wonder if it 's honest enough fo George . If it 's what he wanted . ou know .
AMELIA: If you mean Gene , we 're not together anymore . In that way . Not for a long time .
FRED: Whose choice was that ?
AMELIA: It was mine .
FRED: Well , is n't it always ? You choose in , you choose out . Makes things easy .
AMELIA: Anything but easy . Are you disapproving of the way I live ?
FRED: Hell , no . It 's just like me . In fact , it 's like most guys I know . His smile .
MELIA: If you have a point , Fred . Make it .
FRED: Oh , I believe I have .
AMELIA: Allow me to cut you a deal , my friend . Steel in the spine of that .
BALFOUR: Ready , Mum .
AMELIA: or something ? Oh . The monsoon beats down .
BALFOUR: If you need help , I 'll be right outside . In the rain .
AMELIA: Thank you . I 'll only be a moment .
EORGE: You should be sleeping .
AMELIA: You should be working .
GEORGE: I 'm running a big adventure here , 'm a very important fellow .
AMELIA: You told me I was the star . And you were no one at all . GEORGE I thought I was lying . Guess the joke 's on me . Silence .
GEORGE: Do n't keep me waiting .
AMELIA: I wo n't dare . You 're a very important feline . Uh , fellow .
GEORGE: Talk to me about Fred .
AMELIA: Fred is fine . He 's calculating head-wind speed versus fuel as we speak . CLOSE on his face .
GEORGE: You would n't sell a salesman would you ?
AMELIA: He 's fine .
GEORGE: So what 's that I hear in you voice ? A beat .
AMELIA: I can handle it . And then
GEORGE: After the Fourth . We 're going home .
AMELIA: Where 's that ?
GEORGE: For me ? Anywhere you are .
AMELIA: I 'm going to like it there .
GEORGE: Well . If you insist . She nods . She does .
AMELIA: t 's late here . Guess I 'll go curl up under a teacup .
GEORGE: I 'll go tell the world you 're on your way .
FRED: You 're finding the range . But it might be easier to just shoot me .
AMELIA: Traveling light , that 's all .
FRED: Got room for 190 pounds of asshole ?
AMELIA: It 's fine . Her eyes come up .
FRED: I can run into town before we go . et that in the post for you . She shakes her head slowly .
AMELIA: It 's for my husband . I 'm going to hand it to him . So I can watch his face as he reads it . She sniffles slightly .
GEORGE: ire back . Tell him to forget the Morse Code . They did n't bring the eceiver . The young man looks concerned .
CIPRIANI: The direction finder . How long has this been on ? The seaman turns back at the door . What ?
BELLARTS: That 's her on 3105 . She said ` cloudy and overcast . '
DALTEN: She 's got to stay on longer . Bellarts dictating as O'Hare types
BELLARTS: Earhart signal strength 4 , but on
BELLARTS: Tommy , intercom top deck , double check the smoke stack
THOMPSON: You 've got her signal , dammit . What about the direction finder ?
BELLARTS: Cipriani reports the battery 's dead , sir . It was left on all night . Full beat . THOMPSON I do n't believe this is happening .
O'HARE: Um . An hour . And two minutes , sir . HOLD on this room . DISSOLVE TO
JANE: I need a father who 's a role model , not some horny geek-boy who 's gon na spray his shorts whenever I bring a girlfriend home from school . What a lame-o . Somebody really should put him out of his misery . Her mind wanders for a beat .
JIM #1: Hush , Bitsy . You hush . What is wrong ?
JIM #2: What in the world is wrong with her ? She had a walk this morning .
JIM #1: And a jerky treat .
JIM #2: You spoil her . Bitsy . No bark . Come inside . Now .
CAROLYN: Good morning , Jim !
JIM #1: Morning , Carolyn .
CAROLYN: I just love your tie ! That color !
JIM #1: I just love your roses . How do you get them to flourish like this ?
CAROLYN: Well , I 'll tell you . Egg shells and Miracle Grow .
JANE: Yes .
CAROLYN: Well , congratulations . You 've succeeded admirably .
JANE: Nice going , Dad .
LESTER: Hello , this is Lester Burnham from Media Monthly magazine , I 'm calling for Mr. Tamblin , please ? Well , we 're all unde a deadline here , uh , but you see , there is some basic information about the product launch that is n't even covered in your press release and I Yeah . Can I ask you a question ? Who is Tamblin ? Does he exist ? 'Cause he does n't ever seem to come in Yeah , okay , I 'll leave my number
BRAD: Hey Les . You got a minute ? Lester turns around , smiling perfunctorily
LESTER: For you , Brad ? I 've got five .
BRAD: I 'm sure you can understand our need to cut corners around here .
LESTER: Oh , sure . Times are tight , and you got ta free up cash . Got ta spend money to make money . Right ?
BRAD: Exactly . So Brad stands , ready to usher Lester out .
LESTER: Like the time when Mr. Flournoy used the company MasterCard to pay for that hooker , and then she used the card numbers and stayed at the St. Regis for , what was it , like , three months ?
BRAD: That 's unsubstantiated gossip .
LESTER: That 's fifty thousand dollars . That 's somebody 's salary . That 's somebody who 's gon na get fired because Craig has to pay women to fuck him !
BRAD: Jesus . Calm down . Nobody 's getting fired yet . That 's why we 're having everyone write out a job description , mapping out in detail how they contribute . That way , management can assess who 's valuable and
LESTER: Who 's expendable .
BRAD: It 's just business .
LESTER: I 've been writing for this magazine fo fourteen years , Brad . You 've been here how long , a whole month ?
BRAD: I 'm one of the good guys , Les . I 'm trying to level with you . This is your one chance to save your job . Lester stares at him , powerless .
CAROLYN: there is no decision , you just write the damn thing !
LESTER: You do n't think it 's weird and kinda fascist ?
CAROLYN: Possibly . But you do n't want to be unemployed .
LESTER: Oh , well , let 's just all sell our souls and work for Satan , because it 's more convenient that way .
CAROLYN: Could you be just a little bit more dramatic , please , huh ?
LESTER: Well , they were still mad at you fo cutting down their sycamore .
CAROLYN: Their sycamore ? C'mon ! A substantial portion of the root structure was on ou property . You know that . How can you call it their sycamore ? I would n't have the heart to just cut down something if it was n't partially mine , which of course it was .
JANE: Mom , do we always have to listen to this elevator music ?
CAROLYN: No . No , we do n't . As soon as you 've prepared a nutritious yet savory meal that I 'm about to eat , you can listen to whatever you like . A long beat . Lester suddenly turns to Jane .
LESTER: So Janie , how was school ?
JANE: It was okay .
LESTER: Just okay ?
JANE: No , Dad . It was spec-tac-ular . A beat .
LESTER: Well , you want to know how things went at my job today ?
JANE: Well , what do you expect ? You ca n't all of a sudden be my best friend , just ecause you had a bad day . She gets up and heads toward the kitchen .
LESTER: Oh , what , you 're mother-of-the-year ? You treat her like an employee .
CAROLYN: What ? ! Lester is quiet , staring at his plate .
LESTER: I 'm going to get some ice cream . Carolyn watches him go , irritated .
JANE: Oh , great . So now it 's my fault ?
LESTER: I did n't say that . It 's nobody 's fault . Janie , what happened ? You and I used to e pals .
CAROLYN: I will sell this house today .
WOMAN #1: The ad said this pool was `` lagoon-like . '' There 's nothing `` lagoon-like '' about it . Except for maybe the bugs .
WOMAN #2: There 's not even any plants out here .
CAROLYN: What do you call this ? Is this not a plant ? If you have a problem with the plants , I can always call my landscape architect . Solved .
WOMAN #2: I mean , I think `` lagoon , '' I think waterfall , I think tropical . This is a cement hole . A beat .
CAROLYN: I have some tiki torches in the garage .
ANGELA: Who are you looking for ?
JANE: My parents are coming tonight . They 're trying to , you know , take an active interest in me .
ANGELA: Gross . I hate it when my mom does that .
JANE: They 're such assholes . Why ca n't they just have their own lives ?
LESTER: What makes you so sure she wants us to be there ? Did she ask us to come ?
CAROLYN: Of course not . She does n't want us to know how important this is to her . But she 's been practicing her steps fo weeks .
LESTER: Well , I bet money she 's going to resent it . And I 'm missing the James Bond marathon on TNT .
CAROLYN: Lester , this is important . I 'm sensing a eal distance growing between you and Jane .
LESTER: Growing ? She hates me .
CAROLYN: She 's just willful .
LESTER: She hates you too .
ANNOUNCER: And now , for your half-time entertainment , Rockwell High 's award- winning Dancing Spartanettes !
LESTER: We can leave right after this , right ?
JANE: Oh shit , they 're still here .
LESTER: Janie !
CAROLYN: Hi ! I really enjoyed that !
LESTER: Congratulations , honey , you were great .
JANE: I did n't win anything .
LESTER: Hi , I 'm Lester . Janie 's dad .
ANGELA: Oh . Hi . An awkward beat .
JANE: This is my friend , Angela Hayes .
LESTER: Okay , good to meet you . You were also good tonight . Very precise .
ANGELA: Thanks .
CAROLYN: Nice to meet you , Angela . Honey , I 'm so proud of you . I watched you very closely , and you did n't screw up once . Okay , we have to go .
LESTER: So , what are you girls doing now ?
JANE: Dad .
ANGELA: We 're going out for pizza .
LESTER: Oh really , do you need a ride ? We can give you a ride . I have a car . You wan na come with us ?
ANGELA: Thanks but I have a car .
LESTER: Oh , you have a car . Oh . That 's great ! That 's great , because Janie 's thinking about getting a car soon too , are n't you , honey ?
JANE: Dad . Mom 's waiting for you .
LESTER: Well , it was very nice meeting you , Angela . Any , uh , friend of Janie 's is a friend of mine .
JANE: Could he be any more pathetic ?
ANGELA: I think it 's sweet . And I think he and your mother have not had sex in a long time .
LESTER: It 's the weirdest thing .
JANE: I 'm sorry my dad was so weird tonight .
ANGELA: It 's okay . I 'm used to guys drooling ove me . It started when I was about twelve , I 'd go out to dinner with my parents . Every Thursday night , Red Lobster . And every guy there would stare at me when I walked in . And I knew what they were thinking . Just like I knew guys at school thought about me when they jerked off .
JANE: Vomit .
ANGELA: No , I liked it . And I still like it . If people I do n't even know look at me and want to fuck me , it means I really have a shot at being a model . Which is great , ecause there 's nothing worse in life than being ordinary . An awkward beat . Jane stares at the floor .
JANE: I really think it 'll happen for you .
ANGELA: Oh , I know . Because everything that was meant to happen , does . Eventually .
JANE: Asshole .
ANGELA: Hello ? Hello ?
JANE: Hello ?
ANGELA: Why 'd you call me ?
JANE: I did n't .
ANGELA: Well , my phone just rang and I answered it and somebody hung up and then I sta sixty-nined and it called you back .
JANE: I was in the shower .
RICKY: Be right there .
BARBARA: Hello . As she attempts to serve him bacon
RICKY: I do n't eat bacon , remember ?
BARBARA: I 'm sorry , I must have forgotten .
RICKY: What 's new in the world , Dad ?
COLONEL: This country is going straight to hell .
BARBARA: No . No .
JIM #1: Hi .
JIM #2: Welcome to the neighborhood .
JIM #1: Just a little something from our garden .
JIM #2: Except for the pasta , we got that at Fallaci 's .
JIM #1: It 's unbelievably fresh . You just drop it in the water and it 's done . The Colonel stares at them , suspicious .
COLONEL: Colonel Frank Fitts , U.S. Marine Corps .
JIM #1: Nice to meet you . And this is my partner
JIM #2: Jim Berkley , but people call me J.B .
COLONEL: Let 's cut to the chase , okay ? What are you guys selling ?
JIM #2: Nothing . We just wanted to say hi to ou new neighbors
COLONEL: Yeah , yeah , yeah . But you said you 're partners . So what 's your business ?
JIM #1: Well , he 's a tax attorney .
JIM #2: And he 's an anesthesiologist .
COLONEL: How come these faggots always have to ru it in your face ? How can they be so shameless ?
RICKY: That 's the whole thing , Dad . They do n't feel like it 's anything to be ashamed of . The Colonel looks at Ricky sharply .
COLONEL: Well , it is .
RICKY: Yeah , you 're right . The Colonel 's eyes flash angrily .
COLONEL: Do n't placate me like I 'm your mother , oy . Ricky sighs , then looks at his father .
RICKY: Forgive me , sir , for speaking so bluntly , ut those fags make me want to puke my fucking guts out .
COLONEL: Me too , son . Me too .
ANGELA: I 'm serious , he just pulled down his pants and yanked it out . You know , like , say hello to Mr . Happy .
JANE: Oh my God . That 's the pervert who filmed me last night .
ANGELA: Him ? Jane . No way . He 's a total lunatic .
JANE: You know him ?
ANGELA: Yeah . We were on the same lunch shift when I was in ninth grade , and he would always say the most random , weird things , and then one day , he was just like , gone . And then , Connie Cardullo told me he his parents had to put him in a mental institution .
JANE: Why ? What did he do ?
ANGELA: What do you mean ?
JANE: Well , they ca n't put you away just fo saying weird things .
ANGELA: You total slut . You 've got a crush on him .
JANE: What ? Please .
ANGELA: You were defending him ! You love him . You want to have like , ten thousand of his abies .
JANE: Shut up .
RICKY: Hi . My name 's Ricky . I just moved next door to you .
JANE: I know . I kinda remember this really creepy incident when you were filming me last night ?
RICKY: I did n't mean to scare you . I just think you 're interesting .
JANE: Thanks , but I really do n't need to have some psycho obsessing about me right now .
RICKY: I 'm not obsessing . I 'm just curious .
ANGELA: What a freak . And why does he dress like a Bible salesman ?
JANE: He 's like , so confident . That ca n't be eal .
ANGELA: I do n't believe him . I mean , he did n't even like , look at me once .
RICKY: Hey .
BARBARA: I 'm sorry , what ?
RICKY: Mom . Nobody said anything .
BARBARA: Oh . I 'm sorry .
CAROLYN: everyone here is with their spouse o their significant other . How would it look if I showed up with no one ?
LESTER: Well , you always end up ignoring me and going off
CAROLYN: Now listen to me . This is an important usiness function . As you know , my usiness is selling an image . And part of my job is to live that image
LESTER: Just say whatever you want to say and spare me the propaganda .
CAROLYN: Hi , Shirley ! Listen , just do me a favor . Act happy tonight ?
LESTER: I am happy , honey . Carolyn 's jaw tightens , then
CAROLYN: Oh ! Buddy !
BUDDY: It 's so good to see you too , Catherine .
CAROLYN: Carolyn .
BUDDY: Carolyn ! Of course . How are you ?
CAROLYN: Very well , thank you . Hello , Christy .
CHRISTY: Hello .
CAROLYN: My husband , Lester
BUDDY: It 's a pleasure .
LESTER: Oh , we 've met before , actually . This thing last year . Or the Christmas thing at the Sheraton .
BUDDY: Oh , yes .
LESTER: It 's okay . I would n't remember me either .
CAROLYN: Honey . Do n't be weird .
LESTER: All right , honey . I wo n't be weird . I 'll be whatever you want me to be .
BUDDY: I see . Carolyn 's smile is frozen on her face .
LESTER: Well . I do n't know about you , but I need a drink .
RICKY: Excuse me . Do n't you live on Robin Hood Trail ? The house with the red door ?
LESTER: Yeah .
RICKY: I 'm Ricky Fitts . I just moved into the house next to you .
LESTER: Oh . Hi , Ricky Fitts . I 'm Lester Burnham .
RICKY: Hi , Lester Burnham .
LESTER: Excuse me ?
RICKY: Do you get high ?
CAROLYN: You know , I probably would n't even tell you this if I were n't a little tipsy , ut I am in complete awe of you . I mean , your firm is , hands down , the Rolls Royce of local Real Estate firms , and your personal sales record is , is , is very intimidating . You know , I 'd love to sit down with you and just pick you ain , if you 'd ever be willing . I suppose , technically , I 'm the `` competition , '' but I mean , hey , I do n't flatter myself that I 'm even in the same league as you
BUDDY: I 'd love to .
CAROLYN: Really ?
BUDDY: Absolutely . Call my secretary and have her schedule a lunch .
CAROLYN: I 'll do that . Thank you .
LESTER: did you ever see that movie , where the ody 's walking around holding its own head ? And then the head goes down on that abe ?
RICKY: Re-Animator .
CATERING BOSS: Look . I 'm not paying you to do whatever it is you 're doing out here .
RICKY: Fine . So do n't pay me .
CATERING BOSS: Excuse me ?
RICKY: I quit . So you do n't have to pay me . Now , leave me alone .
CATERING BOSS: Asshole .
LESTER: I think you just became my personal hero . Does n't that make you nervous , just quitting your job like that ? Well , I guess when you 're all of , what ? Sixteen ?
RICKY: Eighteen . I just do these gigs as a cover . I have other sources of income . But my dad interferes less in my life when I pretend to be an upstanding young citizen with a espectable job .
LESTER: Honey , this is Ricky Fitts . This is Ricky Fitts .
RICKY: I 'm Ricky Fitts , I just moved in the house next to you . I go to school with your daughter .
LESTER: With Jane ? Really ?
RICKY: Yeah . Jane .
CAROLYN: Hi . I 'm ready to go . I 'll meet you out front . And she goes back inside .
LESTER: Uh-oh . I 'm in trouble . Nice meeting you , Ricky Fitts . Thanks for the , uh , thing .
RICKY: Any time . Lester goes inside .
JANE: Oh , shit . They 're home . Quick , let 's go up to my room . Jane switches off the TV .
ANGELA: I should say hi to your dad . I do n't want to be rude .
JANE: Mom , you remember Angela .
CAROLYN: Yes , of course !
JANE: I forgot to tell you , she 's spending the night . Is that okay ?
LESTER: Sure !
JANE: I 'm sorry about my dad .
ANGELA: Do n't be . I think it 's funny .
JANE: Yeah , to you , he 's just another guy who wants to jump your bones . But to me he 's just too embarrassing to live .
ANGELA: Your mom 's the one who 's embarrassing . What a phony . Jane glances at Angela , irritated .
JANE: Shut up .
ANGELA: Oh , come on . Like you 've never sneaked a peek at him in his underwear ? I bet he 's got a big dick .
JANE: You are so grossing me out right now .
ANGELA: If he built up his chest and arms , I would totally fuck him .
JANE: Yeah , it was the sound of you being a huge disgusting pig .
ANGELA: I 'm serious .
JANE: Shit . I bet he 's filming us right now .
ANGELA: Really ?
LESTER: Shit . Shit !
RICKY: Welcome to America 's Weirdest Home Videos .
COLONEL: I need a urine sample .
RICKY: Wow . It 's been six months already . Can I give it to you in the morning ? I just took a whiz .
COLONEL: Yeah , I suppose . Well . Good night , son .
ANGELA: I 've been waiting for you .
CAROLYN: What are you doing ? A beat .
LESTER: Nothing . Carolyn switches on the bedside LIGHT .
CAROLYN: You were masturbating .
LESTER: I was not .
CAROLYN: Yes , you were .
LESTER: All right , so shoot me . I was whacking off .
CAROLYN: That 's disgusting .
LESTER: Well , excuse me , but I still have blood pumping through my veins !
CAROLYN: So do I !
LESTER: Really ? I 'm the only one who seems to be doing anything about it .
CAROLYN: Lester . I refuse to live like this . This is not a marriage .
LESTER: This has n't been a marriage for years . But you were happy as long as I kept my mouth shut . Well , guess what ? I 've changed . And the new me whacks off when he feels horny , because you 're obviously not going to help me out in that department .
CAROLYN: Oh . I see . You think you 're the only one who 's sexually frustrated ?
LESTER: I 'm not ? Well then , come on , baby ! I 'm eady .
CAROLYN: Do not mess with me , mister , or I will divorce you so fast it 'll make your head spin !
LESTER: On what grounds ? I 'm not a drunk , I do n't fuck other women , I do n't mistreat you , I 've never hit you , or even tried to touch you since you made it so abundantly clear just how unnecessary you conside me to be . But . I did support you while you got your license . And some people might think that entitles me to half of what 's yours .
JIM #2: Lester , I did n't know you ran .
LESTER: Well , I just started .
JIM #1: Good for you .
LESTER: I figured you guys might be able to give me some pointers . I need to shape up . Fast .
JIM #1: Well , are you just looking to lose weight , or do you want have increased strength and flexibility as well ?
LESTER: I want to look good naked .
COLONEL: What is this , the fucking gay pride parade ?
LESTER: Hey ! Yo ! Ricky ! My entire life is passing before my eyes , and those two have barely broken a sweat .
COLONEL: COLONEL Frank Fitts , U.S. Marine Corps .
LESTER: Whoa . Welcome to the neighborhood , sir .
RICKY: Re-Animator .
LESTER: Yeah !
RICKY: You want to borrow it ? Okay , it 's up in my room . Come on .
LESTER: Sure .
RICKY: I do n't think my dad would try to come in when somebody else is here , but you neve know .
LESTER: What is this ?
RICKY: Urine . I have to take a drug test every six months to make sure I 'm clean .
LESTER: Are you kidding ? You just smoked with me last night .
RICKY: It 's not mine . One of my clients is a nurse in a pediatrician 's office . I cut her a deal , she keeps me in clean piss .
LESTER: You like Pink Floyd ?
RICKY: I like a lot of music .
LESTER: Man , I have n't listened to this album in years .
RICKY: How much do you want ?
LESTER: I do n't know , it 's been a while . How much is an ounce ?
RICKY: Well , this is totally decent , and it 's three hundred .
LESTER: Wow .
RICKY: But this shit is top of the line . It 's called G-13 . Genetically engineered by the U.S. Government . Extremely potent . But a completely mellow high , no paranoia .
LESTER: Is that what we smoked last night ?
RICKY: This is all I ever smoke .
LESTER: How much ?
RICKY: Two grand .
LESTER: Jesus . Things have changed since 1973 .
RICKY: You do n't have to pay now . I know you 're good for it . A beat .
LESTER: Thanks .
RICKY: There 's a card in there with my beepe number , call me anytime day or night . And I only accept cash .
LESTER: Well , now I know how you can afford all this equipment . When I was your age , I flipped burgers all summer just to be able to buy an eight track .
RICKY: That sucks .
LESTER: No actually , it was great . All I did was party and get laid . I had my whole life ahead of me
RICKY: My dad thinks I pay for all this with catering jobs . Never underestimate the power of denial . Lester smiles . This kid 's cool .
LESTER: Uh-oh , mom 's mad .
CAROLYN: What the hell do you think you 're doing ?
LESTER: Bench presses . I 'm going to wail on my pecs , and then I 'm going to do my back .
CAROLYN: I see you 're smoking pot now . I 'm so glad . I think using illegal psychotropic substances is a very positive example to set for our daughter .
LESTER: You 're one to talk , you bloodless , money- grubbing freak .
CAROLYN: Lester . You have such hostility in you !
LESTER: Do you mind ? I 'm trying to work out here . Unless you want to spot me .
CAROLYN: You will not get away with this . You can e sure of that !
LESTER: That 's . What . You . Think .
BRAD: `` my job consists of basically masking my contempt for the assholes in charge , and , at least once a day , retiring to the men 's room so I can jerk off , while I fantasize about a life that does n't so closely resemble hell . '' Well , you obviously have no interest in saving yourself .
LESTER: Brad , for fourteen years I 've been a whore for the advertising industry . The only way I could save myself now is if I start firebombing .
BRAD: Whatever . Management wants you gone by the end of the day .
LESTER: Well , just what sort of severance package is `` management '' prepared to offer me ?
BRAD: What do you want ?
LESTER: One year 's salary , with benefits .
BRAD: That 's not going to happen .
LESTER: Well , what do you say I throw in a little sexual harassment charge to boot ? Brad LAUGHS .
BRAD: Against who ?
LESTER: Against you . Brad stops laughing .
BRAD: Man . You are one twisted fuck .
LESTER: Nope . I 'm just an ordinary guy with nothing to lose .
BUDDY: Carolyn .
CAROLYN: Buddy .
BUDDY: I 'm so sorry I kept you waiting . Christy left for New York this morning , and let 's just say things were very hectic around the house .
CAROLYN: What 's she doing in New York ?
BUDDY: She 's moving there . Yes . We are splitting up .
CAROLYN: Buddy . I 'm so sorry .
BUDDY: Yes , according to her , I 'm too focused on my career . As if being driven to succeed is some sort of character flaw . Well , she certainly knew how to take advantage of the lifestyle my success afforded her . Oh . Wow . Ah , it 's for the best .
CAROLYN: When I saw you two at the party the othe night , you seemed perfectly happy .
BUDDY: Well , call me crazy , but it is my philosophy that in order to be successful , one must project an image of success , at all times .
ANGELA: Why ?
JANE: Look . I want you to stop filming me . Ricky lowers the Digicam .
RICKY: Okay .
ANGELA: Well , whatever . This is boring . Let 's go .
JANE: Do you need a ride ?
ANGELA: Are you crazy ? I do n't want to end up hacked to pieces in a dumpster somewhere .
RICKY: It 's okay . I 'll walk . But thanks .
ANGELA: Yeah , see ? He does n't want to go anyway . C'mon , let 's go .
JANE: I think I 'm going to walk , too . Angela stops and stares at her .
ANGELA: What ? Jane , that 's like , almost a mile .
CAROLYN: Yes ! Oh , God ! I love it !
BUDDY: You like getting nailed by the king ?
CAROLYN: Oh yes ! I love it ! Fuck me , your majesty !
COUNTER GIRL: Would you like some Smiley Sauce ?
LESTER: No . No , actually I 'd like to fill out an application .
COUNTER GIRL: There 's not jobs for manager , it 's just for counter .
LESTER: Good . I 'm looking for the least possible amount of responsibility .
MANAGER: I do n't think you 'd fit in here .
LESTER: I have fast food experience .
MANAGER: Yeah , like twenty years ago .
LESTER: Well , I 'm sure there have been amazing technological advances in the industry , ut surely you have some sort of training process . It seems unfair to presume I wo n't be able to learn .
CAROLYN: That was exactly what I needed . The royal treatment , so to speak . They laugh .
BUDDY: Know what I do when I feel like that ?
CAROLYN: What ?
BUDDY: I fire a gun .
CAROLYN: Really .
BUDDY: Oh yeah , I go to this little firing range downtown , and I just pop off a few ounds .
CAROLYN: I 've never fired a gun before .
BUDDY: Oh , you 've got ta try it . Nothing makes you feel more powerful . Well , almost nothing .
JANE: So how do you like your new house ?
RICKY: I like it . A beat .
JANE: The people who used to live there fed these stray cats , so they were always around , and it drove my mother nuts . And then she cut down their tree .
RICKY: Have you ever known anybody who died ?
JANE: No . Have you ?
RICKY: No , but I did see this homeless woman who froze to death once . Just laying there on the sidewalk . She looked really sad . They watch the FUNERAL CARS pass .
JANE: Why would you film that ?
RICKY: Because it was amazing .
JANE: What was amazing about it ? A beat .
RICKY: When you see something like that , it 's like God is looking right at you , just for a second . And if you 're careful , you can look right back .
JANE: And what do you see ?
RICKY: Beauty .
BARBARA: Yes ?
RICKY: I want you to meet somebody . This is Jane .
JANE: Hi .
BARBARA: Oh , my . I apologize for the way things look around here . Jane glances around . The room is spotless .
RICKY: This is where my dad hides out . GLASS CASES filled with GUNS line the walls .
JANE: I take it he 's got a thing for guns .
RICKY: You got to see this one thing
JANE: Did you steal his keys ?
RICKY: No . One of my clients is a locksmith . He was short on cash one night , so I let him pay me in trade .
JANE: Oh my God .
RICKY: It 's like official state china of the Third Reich . There 's a whole subculture of people who collect this Nazi shit . But my dad just has this one thing .
JANE: Nothing .
RICKY: No , you 're scared of me .
JANE: No I 'm not . But she is . Ricky studies her .
RICKY: You want to see the most beautiful thing I 've ever filmed ?
JANE: Oh my God . What time is it ?
JANE: Sorry I 'm late .
CAROLYN: No , no , that 's quite all right , dear . Your father and I were just discussing his day at work . Why do n't you tell our daughter about it , honey ?
LESTER: Janie , today I quit my job . And then I told my boss to fuck himself , and then I lackmailed him for almost sixty thousand dollars . Pass the asparagus .
CAROLYN: Your father seems to think this kind of ehavior is something to be proud of .
LESTER: And your mother seems to prefer I go through life like a fucking prisone while she keeps my dick in a mason ja under the sink .
CAROLYN: How dare you speak to me that way in front of her ? And I marvel that you can e so contemptuous of me , on the same day that you lose your job !
LESTER: Lose it ? I did n't lose it . It 's not like , `` Oops , where 'd my job go ? '' I quit . Someone pass me the asparagus .
CAROLYN: Oh ! Oh ! And I want to thank you fo putting me under the added pressure of eing the sole breadwinner now
LESTER: I already have a job .
CAROLYN: No , no , do n't give a second thought as to who 's going to pay the mortgage . We 'll just leave it all up to Carolyn . You mean , you 're going to take care of everything now , Carolyn ? Yes . I do n't mind . I really do n't . You mean , everything ? You do n't mind having the sole responsibility , your husband feels he can just quit his job
LESTER: Will someone pass me the fucking asparagus ?
JANE: Okay , I 'm not going to be a part of this
LESTER: Sit down .
CAROLYN: Oh , you do n't complain ? Oh , excuse me . Excuse me . I must be psychotic then , if you do n't complain . What is this ? ! Am I locked away in a padded cell somewhere , hallucinating ? That 's the only explanation I can think of
LESTER: Do n't interrupt me , honey .
JANE: Go . Away .
CAROLYN: Me ? She stares at Jane , then starts to cry .
JANE: Aw , Christ , Mom .
CAROLYN: No , I 'm glad because you 're old enough now to learn the most important lesson in life you can not count on anyone except yourself . You can not count on anyone except yourself . It 's sad , but true , and the sooner you learn it , the better .
JANE: Look , Mom , I really do n't feel like having a Kodak moment here , okay ? Carolyn suddenly SLAPS Jane , hard .
CAROLYN: You ungrateful little brat . Just look at everything you have . When I was your age , I lived in a duplex . We did n't even have our own house .
COLONEL: You little bastard
RICKY: No , sir . I wo n't fight you . The Colonel grabs him by the collar .
COLONEL: How did you get in there ?
RICKY: I picked the lock , sir .
COLONEL: What were you looking for ? Money ? Are you on dope again ?
RICKY: No , sir . I wanted to show my girlfriend your Nazi plate . A beat .
COLONEL: Girlfriend ?
RICKY: Yes , sir . She lives next door . The Colonel glances toward the window .
COLONEL: This is for your own good , boy . You have no respect for other people 's things , fo authority , for
RICKY: Sir , I 'm sorry .
COLONEL: You ca n't just go around doing whateve you feel like , you can'tthere are rules in life
RICKY: Yes , sir .
COLONEL: You need structure , you need discipline
RICKY: Discipline . Yes , sir , thank you fo trying to teach me . Do n't give up on me , Dad .
COLONEL: Oh , Ricky But something keeps him from doing it .
ATTENDANT: I got ta say , Mrs. Burnham , when you first came here I thought you would be hopeless . But you 're a natural .
CAROLYN: Well , all I know is I love shooting this gun ! And she starts FIRING again .
LESTER: What ?
CAROLYN: Ah , whose car is that out front ?
LESTER: Mine . 1970 Pontiac Firebird . The car I always wanted and now I have it . I rule !
CAROLYN: Where 's the Camry ?
LESTER: I traded it in .
CAROLYN: Should n't you have consulted me first ?
LESTER: Hmm , let me think No . You never drove it . Have you done something different ? You look great .
CAROLYN: Where 's Jane ?
LESTER: Jane not home . We have the whole house to ourselves .
CAROLYN: Joyless ? ! I am not joyless ! There happens to be a lot about me that you do n't know , mister smarty man . There is plenty of joy in my life .
LESTER: Whatever happened to that girl who used to fake seizures at frat parties when she got bored ? And who used to run up to the oof of our first apartment building to flash the traffic helicopters ? Have you totally forgotten about her ? Because I have n't .
CAROLYN: Lester . You 're going to spill beer on the couch .
LESTER: So what ? It 's just a couch .
CAROLYN: This is a four thousand dollar sofa upholstered in Italian silk . This is not `` just a couch . ''
LESTER: It 's just a couch !
JANE: Do n't .
RICKY: Why ?
JANE: It 's weird , watching myself . I do n't like how I look .
RICKY: I ca n't believe you do n't know how eautiful you are .
JANE: I 'm not going to sit here for that shit .
RICKY: Fine .
JANE: You do n't feel naked ?
RICKY: I am naked .
JANE: You know what I mean .
RICKY: When I was fifteen , my dad caught me smoking dope . He totally freaked and decided to send me to military school . I told you his whole thing about structure and discipline , right ? Well , of course , I got kicked out . Dad and I had this huge fight , and he hit me and then the next day at school , some kid made a crack about my haircut , and I just snapped . I wanted to kill him . And I would have . Killed him . If they had n't pulled me off . That 's when my dad put me in the hospital . Then they drugged me up and left me in there for two years .
JANE: Wow . You must really hate him .
RICKY: He 's not a bad man .
JANE: Well you better believe I 'd hate my father if he did something like that to me . Wait . I do hate my father .
RICKY: Why ?
JANE: He 's a total asshole and he 's got this crush on my friend Angela and it 's disgusting .
RICKY: You 'd rather he had the crush on you ?
JANE: Gross , no ! But it 'd be nice if I was anywhere near as important to him as she is .
RICKY: How ?
JANE: Well , now , I too need structure . A little fucking discipline . They LAUGH . She lays back on the bed .
RICKY: Want me to kill him for you ? Jane looks at him and sits up .
JANE: Yeah , would you ?
RICKY: It 'll cost you .
JANE: Well , I 've been baby-sitting since I was about ten . I 've got almost three thousand dollars . 'Course , I was saving it up fo a boob job .
RICKY: You know , that 's not a very nice thing to do , hiring somebody to kill your dad .
JANE: Well , I guess I 'm just not a very nice girl , then , am I ?
RICKY: Of course .
LESTER: Remember those posters that said , `` Today is the first day of the rest of you life ? '' Well , that 's true of every day except one . The day you die .
CAROLYN: Jane , hurry up . I 've got a very important appointment
JANE: Mom , is it okay if Angela sleeps ove tonight ?
CAROLYN: Well , of course , she 's always welcome . You know , I thought maybe you two had a fight . I have n't seen her around here in a while .
LESTER: What ?
JANE: I 've been too embarrassed to bring he over . Because of you , and the way that you behave .
LESTER: What are you talking about ? I 've barely even spoken to her .
JANE: Dad ! You stare at her all the time , like you 're drunk ! It 's disgusting !
LESTER: You better watch yourself , Janie , o you 're going to turn into a real bitch , just like your mother .
COLONEL: You ready to go ?
RICKY: Oh , I do n't need a ride . I 'm going to go in with Jane and her mom .
LESTER: Yo , Ricky . How 's it going ?
RICKY: Pretty decent , Mr. Burnham .
LESTER: You need more than that , my little hombre .
CAROLYN: I think we deserve a little junk food , after the workout we had this morning .
BUDDY: I 'm flattered .
LESTER: Smile ! You 're at Mr. Smiley 's ! Carolyn almost jumps out of her skin .
CAROLYN: We were just at a seminar . Buddy , this is my
LESTER: Her husband . We 've met before , but something tells me you 're going to emember me this time .
COUNTER GIRL: Whoa . You are so busted .
CAROLYN: You know , this really does n't concern you .
LESTER: Actually , Janeane is senior drive-thru manager , so you kind of are on her turf . So . This makes sense .
CAROLYN: Oh , Lester
LESTER: Honey , it 's okay . I want you to be happy . Would you like Smiley Sauce with that ?
CAROLYN: Lester , just stop it !
LESTER: Uh-uh . You do n't get to tell me what to do . Ever again .
BUDDY: I 'm sorry . I guess we should cool it fo a while . I 'm facing a potentially very expensive divorce .
CAROLYN: Oh , no . I understand completely . In order to be successful , one must project an image of success . At all times .
LESTER: Shit .
RICKY: I have to run next door . Jane left he geometry book in my bag and she needs it to do her homework .
ANGELA: So you and psycho boy are fucking on like , a regular basis now , right ?
JANE: No .
ANGELA: Oh , come on . You can tell me . Does he have a big dick ?
JANE: Look , I 'm not gon na talk about his dick with you , okay ? It 's not like that .
ANGELA: Not like what ? Does n't he have one ? Why do n't you want to talk about it ? I mean , I tell you every single detail about every guy that I fuck .
JANE: Yeah , and maybe you should n't , all right ? Maybe I do n't really want to hear all that .
ANGELA: Oh , so now that you have a boyfriend , you 're like , above it ? We got ta get you a real man .
RICKY: You got any papers ?
LESTER: Yeah , in the cigar box , right over there . You know , put up a fight , dude ! You are such a pushover . `` No I ca n't . Really . Okay . ''
RICKY: You should learn to roll a joint .
LESTER: Oh . Hi .
JANE: Where 's Mom ?
LESTER: Do n't know .
ANGELA: Hi , Mr. Burnham .
LESTER: Hi .
ANGELA: Wow . Look at you . Have you been working out ?
LESTER: Some .
ANGELA: You can really tell . Look at those arms .
LESTER: You like muscles ?
ANGELA: II should probably go see what Jane 's up to .
RICKY: From my job .
COLONEL: Do n't lie to me . I saw you with him .
RICKY: You were watching me ?
COLONEL: What did he make you do ?
RICKY: Dad , you do n't really think me and Mr. Burnham ?
COLONEL: Do n't you laugh at me !
RICKY: Jesus , what is with you
COLONEL: I swear to God , I will throw you out of this house and never look at you again .
RICKY: You mean that ?
COLONEL: Damn straight I do . I 'd rather you were dead than be a fucking faggot . A beat . Ricky suddenly smiles . He gets up .
RICKY: You 're right . I suck dick for money .
COLONEL: Boy
RICKY: Two thousand dollars . I 'm that good .
COLONEL: Get out .
RICKY: And you should see me fuck . I 'm the best piece of ass in three states .
COLONEL: Get out ! ! I do n't ever want to see you again ! !
RICKY: What a sad old man you are .
COLONEL: Get out .
RICKY: Mom , I 'm leaving . A beat .
BARBARA: Okay , wear a raincoat .
RICKY: I wish things would have been better fo you . Take care of Dad .
TAPE VOICE: disinvesting problems of their power , and removing their ability to make us afraid . This is the secret to `` me- centered '' living .
JANE: I do n't think we could be friends anymore .
ANGELA: You are way too uptight about sex .
JANE: Just do n't fuck my dad , all right ? Please ?
ANGELA: Why not ?
JANE: Dad ! Leave us alone !
RICKY: If I had to go to New York . To live . Tonight . Would you come with me ?
JANE: Yes .
ANGELA: You guys ca n't be serious . You 're just a kid . And he 's like , a mental case . You 'll end up living in a ox on the street .
JANE: I 'm no more a kid than you are ! We can use my plastic surgery money .
RICKY: We wo n't have to . I have over forty thousand dollars . And I know people in the city who can help us get set up .
ANGELA: What , other drug dealers ?
RICKY: Yes .
ANGELA: Jane , you 'd be out of your mind to go with him .
JANE: Why do you even care ?
ANGELA: Because you 're my friend !
RICKY: She 's not your friend . She 's somebody you use to feel better about yourself .
ANGELA: Go fuck yourself , psycho !
JANE: You shut up , bitch !
ANGELA: Jane ! He is a freak !
JANE: Well , then so am I ! And we 'll always be freaks and we 'll never be like othe people . And you 'll never be a freak ecause you 're just too perfect .
ANGELA: Oh , yeah ? Well , at least I 'm not ugly .
RICKY: Yes , you are . And you 're boring . And you 're totally ordinary . And you know it .
ANGELA: You two deserve each other .
LESTER: Jesus , man . You 're soaked .
COLONEL: Where 's your wife ?
LESTER: Uh I do n't know . Probably out fucking that dorky prince of real estate asshole . And you know what ? I do n't care . The Colonel moves closer towards him .
COLONEL: Your wife is with another man and you do n't care ?
LESTER: Nope , our marriage is just for show . A commercial , for how normal we are . When we are anything but . He grins and so does the Colonel .
COLONEL: Yes
LESTER: It 's okay .
LESTER: Just tell me what you need .
TAPE VOICE: `` I refuse to be a victim . '' When this ecomes your mantra , constantly running through your head
CAROLYN: I refuse to be a victim .
ANGELA: I hope you do n't mind if I play the stereo .
LESTER: Not at all . Bad night ?
ANGELA: Not really bad , just strange .
LESTER: Believe me . It could n't possibly be any stranger than mine .
ANGELA: Jane and I had a fight . It was about you .
LESTER: Do you want a sip ?
ANGELA: I do n't know .
LESTER: You do n't know ?
ANGELA: What do you want ?
LESTER: Are you kidding ? I want you . I 've wanted you since the first moment I saw you . You are the most beautiful thing I have eve seen .
ANGELA: You do n't think I 'm ordinary ?
LESTER: You could n't be ordinary if you tried .
ANGELA: Thank you . I do n't think there 's anything worse than eing ordinary And Lester kisses her on the lips .
CAROLYN: I refuse to be a victim . I refuse to be a victim . I refuse to be a victim Lester , I have something I have to say to you
JANE: Are you scared ?
RICKY: I do n't get scared .
JANE: My parents will try to find me .
RICKY: Mine wo n't .
ANGELA: This is my first time . Lester LAUGHS .
LESTER: You 're kidding .
ANGELA: I 'm sorry .
LESTER: You are beautiful .
ANGELA: I feel so stupid .
LESTER: Do n't .
ANGELA: I 'm sorry .
LESTER: You have nothing to be sorry about .
ANGELA: Wow . I was starving .
LESTER: Do you want me to make you another one ?
ANGELA: No , no , no . I 'm fine . He turns to her and cocks an eyebrow .
LESTER: You sure ?
ANGELA: I mean , I 'm still a little weirded out , ut I feel better . Thanks . A long beat , as Lester studies her , then
LESTER: How 's Jane ?
ANGELA: What do you mean ?
LESTER: I mean , how 's her life ? Is she happy ? Is she miserable ? I 'd really like to know , and she 'd die before she 'd ever tell me about it .
ANGELA: She 's she 's really happy . She thinks she 's in love .
LESTER: Good for her . An awkward beat .
ANGELA: How are you ?
LESTER: God , it 's been a long time since anybody asked me that . I 'm great .
ANGELA: I 've got ta go to the bathroom .
LESTER: I 'm great .
JANE: Oh God .
RICKY: Wow .
BUMPY: The corner grocery 's a supermarket . Candy store 's a MacDonald 's . And this place .
BUMPY: What right do they have cutting out the suppliers , pushing all the middlemen out , uying direct from the manufacturer - Sony this , Toshiba that , all them Chinks - putting Americans out of work ?
FRANK: What is it ?
BUMPY: Forget it , Frank . No one 's in charge .
REPORTER: - whose passing has brought together a who 's who of mourners on this chilly afternoon . The Governor has come down . The mayor of New York - its Chief of Police and Commissioner - sports and entertainment luminaries -
TOSCA: White wine , please .
BANKER: How you doing , Frank ?
FRANK: All right .
BANKER: What a loss . How are you otherwise ? Things okay financially ?
BANKER: Bumpy set something up for you ?
TANGO: Hey , Frank , get me an ashtray while you 're at it .
CHARLIE: I know you 're hurting , Frank . So am I .
FRANK: Yeah .
CHARLIE: I 'm sure Bumpy never told you , but he made me promise , anything ever happened to him , I 'd make sure you did n't go without .
FRANK: I 'll be fine , Charlie . Half the people here owed Bumpy money when he died . A lot of money . If they think I 'm going to forget to collect , they 're wrong .
CHARLIE: That 's the spirit . Go get them .
PROFESSOR: Mr. Roberts , Give us U.S. vs. Meade -
RICHIE: You know the Number 1 fear of most people is n't dying ; it 's public speaking . They get physically ill . They throw up .
RIVERA: And that 's what you want to do for a living .
RICHIE: I do n't like being like that . I want to eat it .
CLERK: Hey -
RIVERA: Who 's going to do this ?
RICHIE: He knows me , he 'll take it from me . I 've known him since high school .
RIVERA: Just throw it in , he does n't take it . That 's good service .
CAMPIZI: I swear to God , Richie , I did n't know it was you . I would never slam a door on your hand . Knowingly .
RICHIE: You bit my fuckin hand -
CAMPIZI: What can we do , Richie ? You do n't want to do this . For old times sake , what can we do ? Who do you want ? Who can I give you ? You want Big Sal 's bookie ? You want his accountant ? I 'll give him to you .
TRUPO: Now just enough for the reagent test .
ROSSI: They basically control the market with it . What the fuck has happened to the world , Frank ?
FRANK: Fuckin crooks .
ROSSI: Sad about Bumpy .
FRANK: It 's chaos . Every gorilla for himself .
ROSSI: Who can live like that ? There has to e order . That would never happen with Italians . More important than any one man 's life - is order .
FRANK: Thank you , Charlene . Last one .
CHARLENE: It 's all right with me , Frank , you can stay all day if you want , but I would n't . It 's nice outside .
FRANK: Then maybe I 'll have to go for a walk . Just cause you said so .
RED TOP: On the house for our men in uniform .
SERVICEMAN 1: Why , thank you , sugar , that 's very kind .
RED TOP: Thank Frank .
FRANK: How 's Nate ? You seen him ?
SERVICEMAN 1: All the time . Nate is everywhere . He 's good . Got himself a club now .
FRANK: Where , Saigon ?
SERVICEMAN 1: Bangkok .
SERVICEMAN 2: I do n't think he 's ever coming home .
FRANK: You 're gon na have to boot it a couple times . Cops keep cutting it , selling it , cutting it -
SERVICEMAN 1: I do n't want to say anything cause the price is right - but the shit in Nam is way , way , way , way , way -
CAMPIZI: That 's him .
RICHIE: All right . Get lost . Get out .
RIVERA: We gon na stay with him or the car ?
RICHIE: Let 's see who comes for the car .
RIVERA: Think he made us ?
RICHIE: You called for the warrant ? Where are they ?
RIVERA: I just called . I called and walked back here and ten seconds has gone by .
RICHIE: We saw him with the slips , Javy .
RIVERA: You saw policy slips ? You saw grocery ags . You do n't know what 's in them .
RICHIE: Yes , I do , and so do you , do n't give me that bullshit -
RIVERA: What 's the rush ? Half an hour the warrant 'll be here -
RICHIE: I got night school .
RIVERA: Guess you 're going to miss it . You know , what you were saying before - about throwing up in front of people - money will take that feeling away .
RICHIE: Not when it 's less .
RIVERA: Less than what .
RICHIE: Than what I make now .
RIVERA: No lawyer on earth makes less than a cop .
RICHIE: They do in the Prosecutor 's Office . Three thousand less .
RIVERA: You 're fuckin kidding me .
RICHIE: Fuck this -
RIVERA: Richie -
RICHIE: Check inside .
RIVERA: It 's the same thing . In principle .
RICHIE: We 're talking about principle ?
RIVERA: Richie , a cop who turns in this kind of money says one thing He 'll turn in cops who take money . We 'll be pariahs .
RICHIE: We 're fucked either way .
RIVERA: Not if we keep it . Only if we do n't . Then we 're fucked , you 're right . But not if we keep it .
RICHIE: Yes , we are .
RIVERA: Goddamn it , did we ask for this ? Did we put a gun to someone 's head and say , Give us your money ? Cops kill cops they ca n't trust . We ca n't turn it in . They regard each other again in silence
TOBACK: How much .
RICHIE: Nine hundred and eighty thousand .
TOBACK: What happened to the rest ?
TANGO: Did n't you see the jar , Frank ? I think you walked right past it .
TANGO: Bumpy do n't own 116th Street no more , Frank . Bumpy do n't own no real estate in Harlem no more . I 'm the landlord now and the lease is twenty-percent .
FRANK: Twenty percent ?
TANGO: Of every dollar . Every VIG , every truckload , every girl , every ounce . In the jar .
FRANK: Twenty percent 's my profit . If I 'm giving it to you then what am I doing ? Twenty percent puts me , and everyone you know , out of business , which puts you out of business . There are ways to make money legitimately , and then there 's this way . Not even Bumpy took twenty percent .
TANGO: Bumpy 's fuckin dead .
FRANK: There . That 's twenty-percent .
BUMPY: He 's got the stick - the cane - and he 'll use if he has to .
BUMPY: What right do they have cutting out the suppliers , the middlemen , buying direct , putting Americans out of work This is the way it is now , Frank .
FRANK: Get yourself a new suit .
RICHIE: I 'm sorry .
LAURIE: I do n't know , Richie .
RICHIE: It could n't be avoided . Next weekend I 'll be able to take him .
LAURIE: I 'm moving . He looks back , not sure he heard right .
RICHIE: What ? Where ?
LAURIE: To the St. Regis , what do you care . My sister 's .
RICHIE: Your sister 's . In Vegas ?
RICHIE: Hey , you want to shut up over there ?
LAURIE: You ?
RICHIE: When am I supposed to see my son ?
LAURIE: Last weekend !
RICHIE: Laurie , you ca n't raise a kid in Las Vegas .
LAURIE: Oh , like this is a good environment . Around your friends . There are less creeps in Vegas .
RICHIE: What 's he going to grow up to be in a mobbed up place like that ? What are you thinking ?
LAURIE: I 'm thinking - Richie - of him !
RICHIE: Goddamn it -
RICHIE: Pick up the fuckin glass !
NATE: Frank - ?
THAI: He say how much he wants ?
NATE: He said `` a lot . '' What that means , I do n't know . Four or five keys ?
THAI: He 's your cousin .
NATE: My cousin-in-law . My ex-wife 's cousin .
THAI: Ask him how much he wants .
NATE: How much you gon na want , Frank ?
FRANK: A hundred kilos .
NATE: No one I know can get that much . It 'd have to be pieced together from several suppliers and none of it 's gon na be 100- percent pure .
FRANK: That 's not what I want .
NATE: I know that . But that means dealing with the Chiu-Chou syndicates in Cholon or Saigon - if they 'll deal with you -
FRANK: No , even then it 's too late . It 's been chopped . I want to get it where they get it . From the source .
NATE: You 're gon na go get it .
FRANK: Why not .
NATE: You 're gon na go into the fuckin jungle -
FRANK: I 've lived in jungles all my -
NATE: No . This is the jungle . Tigers . Vietcong . The fuckin snakes alone will kill you .
FRANK: They ai n't Chinese .
GENERAL: How would you get it into the States ?
FRANK: What do you care ?
GENERAL: Who do you work for in there ?
FRANK: What do you care ?
GENERAL: Who are you really ?
FRANK: It says right there . Frank Lucas .
GENERAL: I mean , who you represent ?
FRANK: Me . The man does n't believe it , but lets it go .
GENERAL: You think you 're going to take a hundred kilos of heroin into the US and you do n't work for anyone ? Someone is going to allow that ?
FRANK: Then there 'd be more . On a regular basis . Though I 'd rather not have to drag my ass all the way up here every time .
GENERAL: Of course not .
COLONEL: Where 's it now ?
NATE: Bangkok . I can bring it here or anywhere in between .
COLONEL: A hundred kilos . I never seen that much dope in one place .
NATE: It 's bigger than an Amana refrigerator- freezer .
FRANK: Give them a hundred .
NATE: Fifty , to cover them all .
FRANK: A hundred . And it 's all I got left . So if that dope does n't arrive , for whateve eason - Cousin or no cousin - do n't let me down .
NATE: I 'll let you know when it 's in the air .
RICHIE: Who .
DISPATCHER: There are no cars in that area , Detective Roberts .
RICHIE: Bullshit . I got a man in trouble and I need back-up .
DISPATCHER: I missed that - you 're breaking up -
RICHIE: I said , put the fucking call out again -
DISPATCHER: I just did . No one responded . I 'll try again , but -
RICHIE: Fuck you , too . He slams the mic down .
PARAMEDIC: You got no back-up ? Why is that ?
RICHIE: Bandage his head .
PARAMEDIC: Detective he 's dead .
RICHIE: I know he 's fucking dead . Bandage his head , clean him up , put him on a gurney and prop it up so he 's sitting . And open his eyes .
RIVERA: Thank you -
RICHIE: You robbed him , did n't you .
RIVERA: What ? What are you talking about ?
RICHIE: This . Where 'd this come from ?
RIVERA: What . That 's my money . I 've neve taken dirty money in my life .
RICHIE: You lying piece of shit -
RIVERA: Maybe the occasional gratuity . Like anybody else . You 're going to tell me that 's wrong ?
RICHIE: Yeah .
RIVERA: No , it is n't . It 's part of the salary for getting shot at . For that , certain courtesies are shown . In gratitude -
RICHIE: It 's wrong .
RIVERA: Then goddamn it , pay me fifty grand a year , you son of a bitch . Pay me what I deserve for getting shot at . No ? Fine . Next time four guys come into your place with sawed-off shotguns , you take care of it .
RICHIE: You robbed him , and then you shot him , and I helped you get out of there . How many more you shot ?
RIVERA: You know what , Richie ? Fuck you , you make that kind of accusation against you own kind . And you know why .
RICHIE: You 're a disgrace .
RIVERA: I 'm a leper . Because I listened to you and turned in a million fucking dollars . You know who 'll work with me after that ? Same as you . No one .
RICHIE: Do n't look down there . Look here . You ever fuckin threaten me again , I 'll kill you .
ARMY CAPTAIN: Open the trunk .
CHEMIST: Typically what I see is 25 to 45 percent pure . I 've never seen anything like this . No alkaloids , no adulterants , no dilutents . It 's a hundred percent . May I ?
FRANK: Take it with you . I do n't want to have to call the coroner .
CHEMIST: Store it in a cool , dark place .
JIMMY: Yeah for you .
TEDDY: Who is it ?
SHEILA: I 'm not talking about your proclivities , Richie . Those I only know too well . I 'm talking about being a cop .
RICHIE: About taking money ? I do n't care about money . I do n't do that .
SHEILA: Because it 'll come out . You 're going to have to sit down with shrinks and social workers , her lawyers , the judge , lots of questions .
RICHIE: What 's going on there ?
SHEILA: Scheduling .
RICHIE: No , the money .
SHEILA: Scheduling . What about your friends from the neighborhood ? You still hang out with them ?
RICHIE: I play softball on Sundays with some guys .
SHEILA: Wise guys . That 's going to look good .
RICHIE: I grew up with them , big deal .
SHEILA: What about Anthony Zaca ?
RICHIE: What about him ?
SHEILA: Richie , I 'm just trying to understand things your wife has said . If they 're not true , tell me .
RICHIE: Yeah , Tony 's one of them .
SHEILA: Is he also your son 's godfather ?
RICHIE: Not enough . But she wants to make it never .
SHEILA: Yeah , all right . Give me a twenty . Well , I 'm not going to sit here all day .
BAILIFF: All rise -
TURNER: He got an arm on him . Major League arm , ai n't that right .
FRANK: You show me after supper .
TURNER: You ca n't catch him . He 'll take you head off . We 're talking 95-mile-an-hour . You know how fast that is ? You see the all leave his hand , and that 's the last you see it before it knocks you down .
FRANK: Is that right .
MRS. LUCAS: How did you
FRANK: I had it made . From memory .
MRS. LUCAS: You were five when they took it away . How could you remember it ?
FRANK: I remember .
MRS. LUCAS: It 's perfect . It 's all perfect . I 'm so proud of you .
FRANK: I was with him every day for fifteen of them , looking after him , taking care of things , protecting him , learning from him .
TEDDY: What are we selling , Frank ?
REDTOP: Hi , Frank .
FRANK: Honey , these are my brothers .
TANGO: The fuck you want , Frank -
FRANK: Yeah , that 's right .
DETECTIVE: Did you know his girlfriend ? Good- looking girl . One of his informants .
RICHIE: Beth .
DETECTIVE: Should 've seen their place . Like animals lived there .
RICHIE: I have seen it .
DETECTIVE: Chose a good night , huh ? Grand Central Station in here .
MEDICAL EXAMINER: It 's been like this . I 'm lucky I get home before midnight ; lots of careless- ness .
RICHIE: But it 's federal . I 'd have to answe to who ? FBI ?
TOBACK: Me and the U.S. Attorney . No one else . No FBI . Hoover knows better than to mix his men with dope . Too much temptation for the feeble-minded .
RICHIE: You know why I do n't have it .
TOBACK: Does n't matter .
RICHIE: No , they 're all on the take and I 'm not and it does n't matter to anyone . Instead of giving you a medal for turning in money , they bury you .
TOBACK: It 's fucked up . You 're right . Maybe this 's an opportunity away from all that . They regard each other . Eventually -
RICHIE: I 'll do it , but only like this I do n't set foot in a police station again . I work out of a place of my own . And I pick my own guys . Guys I know would n't take a nickel off the sidewalk .
TOBACK: Done .
RICHIE: This is the only floor we 'll be using .
FRANK: No loan , no contingencies . Cash sale .
SINGER: Mr. Joe Louis , ladies and gentlemen .
FRANK: Who 's the beauty queen ?
CHARLIE: She is a beauty queen . No kidding . Miss Puerto Rico .
FRANK: What is this ? He turns Teddy so he 's facing a mirror .
TEDDY: What . These are clothes . This is a very nice -
FRANK: I 'm wearing clothes . These are clothes . Those - - are a costume . With a sign on it that says Arrest me . You look like fuckin Jackie Fox .
TEDDY: What 's wrong with Jackie . I like Jackie .
FRANK: You like Jackie ? You want to be Superfly ? Go work for him , end up in a cell with him .
TEDDY: He wants to talk to you by the way . I told him I 'd tell you .
FRANK: You and Jackie were talking about me ?
TEDDY: Not about you . We were talking . He said he wanted to talk to you about something .
FRANK: I 'm taking you shopping tomorrow .
TEDDY: I went shopping today .
FRANK: You go shopping every day . Like a girl .
JOE LOUIS: It 's a tax thing . It 's a mistake my lawyers will straighten out , but for the time being it 's a headache -
FRANK: How much you owe ?
JOE LOUIS: It 's nothing , like - fifty grand .
FRANK: Sure . Do n't worry about it .
JOE LOUIS: Thank you . I 'll pay you back soon as -
FRANK: Joe . It 's a gift . Not a loan . You do n't owe me nothing .
ANA: Hi . I 'm Ana .
FRANK: I 'm Frank .
ANA: You 're Frank and this is your place . Why 's it called Small 's ? Why do n't you call it Frank 's ?
FRANK: Because I do n't have to .
RICHIE: I 'm reluctant to bring anyone in I do n't personally know .
SPEARMAN: You know me , and I vouch for them .
RICHIE: Where are they ?
SPEARMAN: That 's Jones . With the skinny white woman .
SPEARMAN: Both are good with wires . Have good informants . They 're honest . And they 're fearless . They 'll do anything . They 're insane , Richie , like you .
FRANK: I got it .
ANA: This is your father ?
FRANK: You really do n't know who that is ? It 's Martin Luther King .
ANA: It is not .
FRANK: You 're right . He was as important as Dr. King , though .
ANA: What 'd he do ?
FRANK: A lot of things . He had a lot of friends . He served New York and it served him .
ANA: What was he to you ?
FRANK: Teacher .
ANA: What 'd he teach you ?
FRANK: How to take my time how if you 're going to do something , do it with care do it with love . And it 's working here . It 's seductive .
ANA: Anything else ?
FRANK: How be a gentleman .
ANA: That 's what you are ?
FRANK: I got five different apartments in the city I could 've taken you to . I brought you here instead -
FRANK: To meet my mother .
MRS. LUCAS: Is this her ? Oh , she 's beautiful , Frank . Look at her . She 's an angel come down from heaven . Mrs. Lucas embraces Ana like family .
RICHIE: Our mandate is to make major arrests . No street guys - we want the suppliers - the distributors .
JONES: There 's a story about you . About turning in some money . A lot of money . Is it true ?
RICHIE: It 's not true .
JONES: Stuff 's ten percent pure . Strong enough to smoke for all those suburban white kids afraid of needles .
RICHIE: You paid ten bucks for it ?
JONES: And it 's all that 's out there .
RICHIE: Now , how is that possible ? Who can afford to sell shit twice as good fo half as much ?
TEDDY: We 're going to be here all night if we count every bill .
BANKER: You got a stockbroker , Frank ?
FRANK: I deal with enough crooks as it is .
BANKER: This one could n't be more honest . Ask around . He 's got a lot of clients in the usiness . You ca n't leave all your money in safety deposit boxes ; give him a call .
CHARLIE: Frank . This is Mike Sibota .
FRANK: Mr. Sibota . What can I get you ?
SIBOTA: A left-hander from what Charlie tells me . Your nephew ?
FRANK: It 's been his dream all his life to play for the Yankees - and he 's good enough .
SIBOTA: So I hear . You have him come see me . We 'll give him a try-out .
DETECTIVE: What 's this ? Oh , that 's it , I 'm taking you in .
JIMMY: You ca n't take me in for that , I got a license for that , motherfucker .
DETECTIVE: This then - But first -
TEDDY: Let him go . This is for you .
DETECTIVE: What is that , a bribe ? Oh , now you 're all under arrest .
JIMMY: What is that ?
DETECTIVE: I 'm taking you all in .
JIMMY: I said , what the fuck was that ?
DETECTIVE: What was what ?
JIMMY: Oh , he 's all right . I just shot him in the leg . You got a health plan , what are you complaining about . He 's fine . Here - Five hundred all right ? Six ? Look , he 's feeling better all the time .
FRANK: I ca n't have this kind of stupidity .
TEDDY: It was an accident . He feels terrible about it .
FRANK: He does n't feel shit , coked up all the time . Get rid of him .
TEDDY: Frank . He 's your cousin . What 's he gon na do ? Go back home ? I 'll talk to him . I 'll straighten him out .
FRANK: Gim me those glasses .
TEDDY: What ? Why ?
JONES: Ice Pick Paul goes here -
ABRUZZO: No , he 's under Benny Two-Socks -
JONES: No , you 're thinking of Benny the Bishop . Benny Two-Socks is Tosca 's deadbeat son- in-law .
SPEARMAN: Jonesy 's right .
JONES: What 're you doing ? We just -
RICHIE: For a cop the uppermost thing is the arrest . For a prosecutor , the arrest is nothing without the evidence to convict . We do n't have any real evidence on anyone on this board , so they 're coming down . We 're starting over from the street .
ABRUZZO: What are you , a prosecutor all of a sudden ?
PHONE VOICE: Those snow tires you give me last time come in yet ? I 'm going to want some more of them , gim me one and a half more of them . The detectives laugh .
TOBACK: This is more than a year 's salary , Richie . If it disappears , I wo n't be able to get it for you again .
RICHIE: It 'll never be out of my sight .
MECHANIC: Yeah , yeah , it 's ` Blue . ' You can pick it up here tomorrow . Where 's the rest of the money ?
RICHIE: That 's half . I 'll give you the othe half tomorrow when you give -
MECHANIC: No , no , no , I do n't do that . Go fuck yourself .
SPEARMAN: He 's going into New York . Are we ?
RICHIE: What are they going to do , arrest us ?
SPEARMAN: They could . New York cops . They can do worse than that .
RICHIE: We 're not losing that money . Go .
RICHIE: Get out .
TAXI DRIVER: What ?
RICHIE: Get the fuck out of the car !
RICHIE: That 's my money .
TRUPO: When 's the last time I was in Jersey ? Let me think . Never . What 're you doing coming over here without letting anybody know ? You do n't know you can get hurt doing that ?
TOBACK: Richie - cops are like -
RICHIE: Yeah , I know , like everyone else . Some of them will steal no matter what . There can be a camera on them they 'll do it . Some 'll never do it . The rest are capable of either , depending how thei department leans Only theirs is n't leaning , it 's fallen over . The patrol cars do n't even stop in Harlem , just roll down the window so the dealers can throw the money in . I saw drops made on precinct steps .
TOBACK: What were you doing there ?
RICHIE: It 's where this dope is coming from . Blue Magic . Out of New York . What am I supposed to do , ignore it ?
TOBACK: The cab driver 's filed aggravated assault and grand theft charges -
RICHIE: He would n't stop . Motherfucker almost an me over .
TOBACK: - which he may reconsider depending on the amount the State of New Jersey offers to settle -
RICHIE: I told him I was a cop . I showed him my identification .
TOBACK: You stole his cab and broke his arm .
RICHIE: I was chasing your 20 thousand dollars .
TOBACK: I do n't want to hear about you going into New York anymore .
RICHIE: Then my investigation 's over .
TOBACK: You 're not listening to me . I said I do n't want to hear about it You do whatever you have to do , go wherever you have to go to find out who 's bringing this shit into the country Just do n't tell me . Get some sleep .
VIDA: Mr. Roberts ? I 'm here for ou appointment .
TONY: When you asked me to be your son 's godfather , I took it very seriously .
RICHIE: I know .
TONY: I said yes , I 'd take on this esponsibility , take care of your son , God forbid something happened to you -
RICHIE: Tony , the things she 's telling Child Social Services make me look very bad Out all night . Lowlife informants hanging around . Women -
TONY: Old friends like me .
RICHIE: Thank you .
TONY: What .
RICHIE: You do n't have to talk about it , you do n't want . What do you hear about Blue Magic ? Anything ?
TONY: A lot of sorrow and misery from guys eing put out of business . That 's all .
RICHIE: Nothing about who 's bringing it in ?
TONY: Guys down south is all I heard .
RICHIE: Down south , Florida ? Cubans ? What .
TONY: I do n't know . All I can tell you is whoever it is , they 're upsetting the natural order of things .
TOSCA: Pull -
MRS. TOSCA: The whole place was imported brick by ick from Gloucestershire .
ANA: It 's very nice .
FRANK: Pull - The shotgun booms -
TOSCA: She 's a lovely girl . You should marry her .
FRANK: Too many things to look after right now to think about that .
TOSCA: Frank . That 's a mistake . If I may say . Do n't take her for granted , girl like that .
FRANK: Bumpy was interested in a lot of things .
TOSCA: I always wonder if people know when history 's being made . And what they 're doing at the time . This , for instance , could be a historic moment , and you 're sipping a glass of ice water .
FRANK: He did n't have what you needed . You had what he needed . We 've always had to come to you .
TOSCA: Yes . Until now .
TOSCA: Monopolies are illegal in this country , Frank , because no one can compete with a monopoly . If they let the dairy farmers do that , half of them would go out of usiness tomorrow .
FRANK: I 'm just trying to make a living .
TOSCA: Which is your right . Because this is America . But not at the unreasonable expense of others . That 's un-American . You know the price you pay for a gallon of milk does n't represent its true cost of production . It 's controlled . Set .
FRANK: I set a price I think is fair .
TOSCA: It 's very unfair , in fact . You customers are happy , but what about you fellow dairy farmers ? You 're not thinking of them .
FRANK: I 'm thinking of them as much as they eve thought of me .
TOSCA: All right . I can see you 're getting excited . Do n't get excited . That 's not why I invited you to my home . To get excited .
FRANK: I do n't need it . I already got everything from 110th Street to Yankee Stadium , river to river .
TOSCA: Which is a little mom and pop store compared to what I 'm talking about . I could make you bigger than K-Mart . L.A. , Chicago , Detroit , Vegas . I 'm speaking nationwide . And I 'd guarantee you peace of mind . You know what I mean by that .
FRANK: You pay what a kilo now , 75 , 80 ? I 'd consider 50 . And I can get you as much as you want .
TOSCA: You see , I was right . This is a historic moment . You 're going to be igger than Bumpy himself .
ANA: Why would you trust these people , the way they look at you ?
FRANK: They look at me like it 's Christmas and I 'm Santa Claus .
ANA: They looked at us like we 're the help .
FRANK: No . They 're working for me now .
ANA: Yes .
FRANK: What is it ?
ANA: Come on . You look great . You want to miss the fight ? Come on .
JOE LOUIS: Excuse me -
RICHIE: Mr. Louis - Joe looks back as Richie approaches him -
TOSCA: Hey , Frank , you keep that hat on , I 'm gon na miss the fight -
RICHIE: That 's is the plate number on the limo . Check with the company , who rented it .
SPEARMAN: He 's a supplier at most . Or just a pimp . We'd 've heard of him otherwise .
RICHIE: No , he 's bigger than that . His seats were phenomenal ; better than Al Tosca 's . Joe Louis and Ali shook his fuckin hand .
RICHIE: Five brothers , he 's the oldest , lots of cousins , all living here now , spread out around the boroughs and Jersey . The others are -
TOBACK: Not your typical day in the life of a dope man , Richie .
RICHIE: Neither was Bumpy Johnson 's and he owned Harlem .
TOBACK: You think Frank Lucas took over for Bumpy Johnson ? His driver ? That 's a little far-fetched .
RICHIE: Is it ? Everything he does , he does like Bumpy .
TOBACK: Bumpy never wore a chinchilla coat in his life .
RICHIE: We have n't seen that again . That apparently has been retired to the closet .
CHARLIE: She 's the most beautiful bride I eve saw , Frank .
FRANK: I wish Bumpy could 've met her . I wish she could 've met him .
TOBACK: What do you got on him you can use in court ? Because this is n't it . You try this without informants and powder , no one 's going to jail .
RICHIE: Wo n't get any informants . Not inside . It 's like a Sicilian family . Like he 's structured his own family the same way to protect himself .
FRANK: Stay in the ca
TRUPO: Hello , Frank .
FRANK: Detective .
TRUPO: You sure you done the right thing ? She 's a beautiful girl - there 's no question - but she 's got an attitude on -
FRANK: Listen to me . Before you say anothe word - about her - or me - remember that you 're saying it on the most important fuckin day of my life .
TRUPO: Man walks around in a fifty thousand dollar chinchilla coat and he never even ought me a cup of coffee ? Something wrong there .
FRANK: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
TRUPO: You pay your bills , Frank ?
FRANK: You want to keep talking , talk to my lawyer , here 's his card . You call him , ecause we 're done here -
TRUPO: Do you pay your bills , I asked you .
FRANK: If you 're not getting your share , it 's not my fault , go ask the chief of police .
TRUPO: What 's my share ? You do n't even know me . Maybe I 'm special .
FRANK: No , you 're all the fuckin same .
TRUPO: What does that say ? Special - Investigations - Unit . See that word there ? `` Special . '' Ten grand , first of each month , delivered here .
FRANK: Detective There are some things you do n't do . This is one of them . Not on a man 's wedding day .
TRUPO: Have a nice honeymoon .
JIMMY: Where is it ?
DARYLYNN: Fuck you , I 'm not telling you .
JIMMY: Where is my fuckin dope ? You and you girlfriends take it again ? I 'll fuckin kill you .
SHEILA: Richie , yes , fuck me like a cop , not a lawyer - Oh , God , Richie , no - do n't answer it - No , no , no -
RICHIE: Yeah -
JIMMY: The fuck is this place ?
RICHIE: Let 's say you beat it somehow . What do you think Cousin Frank 'll think of that ? He knows you had to sit here listening to something like this . And then you beat an attempted murder ? Is he stupid ? He 'll assume you talked .
RICHIE: You fucked up , Jimmy . But nobody knows . Frank does n't know . Yet . Do you want him to read about it in the paper ? Or do you want to walk out of here - no bail , no trial - just walk out , now .
FRANK: Stevie . Come over here . I heard you did n't show up .
STEVIE: I do n't want to play pro ball , I decided .
FRANK: What 're you talking about ? This is you dream since you were their age - Maybe I can set it up again .
STEVIE: It 's not what I want . I want to do what you do , Uncle Frank . I want to be you .
TEDDY: We got a problem .
FRANK: You tested it . You 're sure .
JACKIE: Frank . Welcome .
FRANK: We need to talk .
JACKIE: Great . Girls , get out .
FRANK: That 's not why I 'm here . Everybody 's happy , Jackie . Charlie , Baz , the cops , the Italians , everybody . Everybody except you .
JACKIE: I 'm happy .
FRANK: Then I do n't understand . Why do you have to take something that 's perfectly good the way it is , and wreck it ? Jackie does n't seem to understand .
JACKIE: What the fuck are you talking about , Frank ?
FRANK: What you 're doing , as far as I 'm concerned , when you chop my dope down to five percent , is trademark infringement .
JACKIE: With all due respect , Frank , if I buy something , I can do whatever I want with it .
FRANK: That 's not true . That 's where you 're wrong .
JACKIE: If I buy a car , I can paint it , God damn it .
FRANK: Jackie , you do n't need to . You do n't need to make more money than you can with Blue the way it is . No one does . At a certain point it 's just greed .
JACKIE: What do you want , Frank ? You want me to call it something else ?
FRANK: I have to insist . You call it Blue Magic , that 's misrepresentation .
JACKIE: Fine . I 'll call it Red Magic , even though it does n't sound as good .
FRANK: That 's all I 'm saying . Wrap it in red cellophane and -
JACKIE: Pink Magic . Black Magic -
FRANK: Whack it down to nothing , tie a bow around it and call it Blue Dogshit if you want , just do n't let me catch you doing this again . Jackie regards Frank for a long moment
JACKIE: Catch me ? Insist ? Infringement ? I do n't like these words as much as please - thank you - sorry to bother you , Jackie . These are better words to use you come into my place without an invitation .
TEDDY: Give me the keys ; take a cab home .
FRANK: You do n't go over there any more .
TEDDY: Frank ? Some of it 's in the trunk .
TRUPO: Hello , Frank .
FRANK: Detective . How 's it going ? You have a nice Thanksgiving ?
TRUPO: I did not , as a matter of fact . Get out of the car . The Lucases climb out .
FRANK: Where 's the Shelby ?
TRUPO: The Shelby 's gone , Frank .
FRANK: We 're gon na shut the trunk and say good night , forget you pulled us over .
TRUPO: I got a better idea .
TRUPO: Or would you rather I took it all and threw you and your brother in the fuckin iver ?
FRANK: I do n't know , would you rather it 's you fuckin house blows up next time ?
TRUPO: I loved that car .
FRANK: I know .
TRUPO: Let 's go .
FRANK: Do n't you ever put me in a car with dope in it .
RICHIE: Yeah . Tony . How 's it going ?
TONY: It 's a scientific force like atomic energy . It rearranges the molecules .
RICHIE: Of what .
TONY: Of anything . Of popcorn . You do n't want to put your head in there .
RICHIE: No , thanks . I do n't want one .
TONY: Aspen . Just got back . Had a great time .
RICHIE: I 'd like to ski Aspen some day .
TONY: Know who we met ? Burt Reynolds . I 'm not kidding . Lot of people from Hollywood go up there now , buying up everything .
RICHIE: This is your place ?
TONY: Are you kidding ? You know what it 's worth ? Ski-in-ski-out , five bedrooms , sauna , everything . We were guests . No No , that 's your place .
TONY: Is n't there something we can do - about leaving the big guy alone ? You know who I mean .
RICHIE: If I do n't report what you just said to me , you know I could be in a lot of trouble . If I do , then it 's you .
TONY: I 'm hoping you wo n't do that .
RICHIE: From who , your uncle ? Why would you do this ? Why would you isk our friendship ?
TONY: Because I care what happens to you .
RICHIE: You should n't have done it .
TONY: I had to . I had no choice . Neither do you . Leave Frank Lucas alone .
RICHIE: He 's not important enough for you to do this .
TONY: Yes , he is .
RICHIE: Tell Marie I 'm sorry I had to leave . You can tell her why .
TOBACK: That 's because they all think you 're on the take and you think they are .
RICHIE: They do n't want this to stop . It employs too many people . Cops , lawyers , judges , probation officers , prison guards . The day dope stops coming into this country , a hundred thousand people lose their jobs .
SPEARMAN: Richie . Excuse me .
RICHIE: Who took it out ? If there 's a contract on me , it would be nice to know who took it out .
FBI AGENT: We ca n't say without compromising ou source . You understand .
RICHIE: No . I do n't . Not when it 's my life .
FBI AGENT: If you want , we can assign someone to you .
RICHIE: Who ? FBI ? You 're going to protect me ?
MAN: Do n't shoot ! For God 's sake .
RICHIE: Talk .
MAN: Are you Richard Roberts ? I got a subpoena .
RICHIE: Laurie . I 'm sorry I could n't give you the kind of life you wanted . I 'm sorry it was never enough . But do n't punish me for being honest . Do n't take my son away .
LAURIE: What are you saying ? That because you were `` honest '' and did n't take money like every other cop , I left you ? The bailiff looks over , but she does n't care .
BAILIFF: All rise -
SHEILA: Your honor , a lot has been said here today about how unsavory Mr. Roberts ' environment is for a child . How dangerous it is . I 'm sorry , but this is our world . This is where we live and we tell him , Protect us . We give him that esponsibility , and then say , Oh , but we do n't trust you to raise a child . We do n't think you 're fit for that .
RICHIE: I 'm not .
RICHIE: You 're right . This is no place for him . Around me . Take him . The further away the better . For him .
DOC: Frank -
FRANK: Yeah , I see them .
CHARLIE: They 're fucking crooks . No code of ethics .
FRANK: Someone 's been following me . Besides cops . I see cars where they should n't e. Guys I do n't know -
CHARLIE: Me , too .
FRANK: Bumpy hardly ever went out at a certain point . He stayed in - read - watched TV - played chess . I thought he chose to lead a quiet life . He did n't . He could n't go out without something happening .
ANA: We can still go out .
FRANK: Where ? With who ? Everyone I know is under surveillance . I ca n't even be with my family at Christmas anymore .
ANA: Why do n't you just pay who you have to pay ?
FRANK: I do pay them , I pay them all . Cops , accountants , lawyers , who do n't I pay ? Everybody . I pay them a fortune , it does n't matter . It does n't satisfy them . The more you pay , the more they expect .
FRANK: Put on something nice , we 're going out .
DOC: Around back ?
FRANK: Fuck that . I 'm not going to sneak into my own club . Just drive .
ANA: I 'm going to wait in the car .
DOC: Go ahead , Frank . I 'll wait for it .
FRANK: You can carry it all ? We ordered a lot .
FRANK: Do n't forget the yellow sauce .
ANA: The lights give me a headache , you go .
FRANK: I 'm not leaving you on the street .
ANA: Get the keys , Frank , it 's cold .
DOC: Gim me some of that yellow sauce .
FRANK: What the fuck was that ?
TEDDY: Was it Jackie ? I 'll fuckin kill him whether it was o not , you tell me to . What do you want us to do , Frank ? We ca n't just sit here and -
FRANK: Who did n't like Charlie ? Everybody liked Charlie
ANA: Who shot at us ? It does n't matter . We 're leaving .
FRANK: Go home . Go see your kids .
ANA: We 're leaving from here . Money 's in the car .
FRANK: What money ?
ANA: Everything from your mother 's house .
FRANK: In your car ?
ANA: Yes .
FRANK: Where 's the car ?
ANA: Out front .
FRANK: With ten million dollars in it ?
ANA: I did n't count it .
FRANK: Are you crazy ? Take it back to Teaneck . What are you doing driving around without security ? Doc 'll take you back .
ANA: We 're not going there , we 're going to the airport . We 're leaving the country .
FRANK: To go where ? No , we 're not .
ANA: Frank , Charlie 's dead . They tried to kill us . What else has to happen - ? He grabs her and holds her to calm her down .
FRANK: Shhh . Come on , now . Shhh .
ANA: We can go anywhere we want . We can live anywhere .
FRANK: We can run and hide is what you 're saying .
SPEARMAN: Said he 'll only talk to you .
TRUPO: From what I hear , it was the Corsicans . The French Connection , Fernando Rey , the exporters Frank has put out of business . Now , I can take care of him in New York , ut I do n't want to have to worry every time he drives across the bridge to Jersey someone 's gon na take another shot at him .
RICHIE: I 'm crazy . Ca n't you tell that ? I 'm crazy enough to shoot someone and make it look like an accident next time he comes over the bridge without my permission . Get the fuck out of New Jersey .
FRANK: `` I can guarantee you peace of mind , '' you said . Do I look like a man with peace of mind to you ? They shot at my wife . Who does that ?
TOSCA: I do n't know that it was any of them , Frank . Neither do you .
FRANK: Then maybe I 'll kill them all just to make a fuckin point .
TOSCA: You want to know who it was ? I can tell you . It was a junkie . Or a rival . Or some dumb ass kid trying to make a name for himself . Or someone you forgot to pay off . Or slighted without ealizing it . Or someone you put out of usiness by being too successful . Success has a lot of enemies . You success is who took a shot at you . How you gon na kill it ? By being unsuccessful ? You can be successful and have enemies , or unsuccessful and have friends . It 's the choice we make .
NATE: Hello ?
FRANK: I 'm watching the news . Where the hell 's everyone going ?
NATE: Home . The war 's over .
FRANK: Just like that ? We 're going to leave the fuckin country to the communists ?
NATE: We been here since 1961 , Frank .
FRANK: I have n't !
GENERAL: Opium plants are hearty enough to outlive any war . They 'll still be here long after the troops are gone . But what are you going to do for transportation when the last US plane goes home ?
FRANK: I 'll figure something out . You 'll see me again .
GENERAL: It 's not in my best interest to say this , Frank but quitting while you 're ahead is not the same as quitting .
FRANK: That 's what my wife thinks .
GENERAL: But you do n't think she 's right . Frank does n't say .
FRANK: Give them half !
FRANK: Tomorrow will be fine .
TEDDY: Short Term Lot 3 . This the Mustang were talking about Camero ? What 's the plate number ? Yeah , I got it I got it , Frank
ABRUZZO: There 's no Short Term Lot 3 at Newark . They 're lettered , A , B , C , D -
JIMMY: I 'm just telling you what I heard -
ABRUZZO: Then you heard wrong !
SPEARMAN: Maybe he means the time ? 3 o'clock ?
JONES: And this is n't a Jersey plate . Or New York . Not with just two letters . It 's three and three , not two and three -
JIMMY: It 's what he said -
JONES: Then what the fuck is it -
JIMMY: The fuck should I know -
ABRUZZO: You 're fuckin lying -
JIMMY: It 's what he said . I 'm sure .
SPEARMAN: KA 760 -
JIMMY: Yes !
RICHIE: None of you ever been in the service ? It 's an Air Force tail number .
RICHIE: Captain , I 'm Richard Roberts , Director of the Essex County Narcotics Bureau .
TRUPO: Your husband 's illustrious career is over . The Feds are going to come in and take it all . Everything . But not before I get my gratuity . Where 's the money ?
ANA: There was some on that dresser , but it 's gone now so I guess you -
TRUPO: The money ! The getaway money Frank and every other gangster keeps in his house !
ANA: If you leave now , there 's a chance Frank might not kill you - Trupo slaps her hard across the face -
RICHIE: Open it .
RICHIE: The warrant permits me to search the plane and its cargo .
ARMY CAPTAIN: But you do n't have my permission .
RICHIE: I do n't need it .
US ATTORNEY: That 's enough .
RICHIE: There are drugs on that plane -
US ATTORNEY: Shut the fuck up .
RICHIE: I had good information the target of my investigation was bringing dope in on that plane .
US ATTORNEY: And that target is ?
RICHIE: Frank Lucas .
US ATTORNEY: Who ? Who 's Frank Lucas ? Who 's he work for ? Which family ?
RICHIE: He 's not Italian . He 's black .
US ATTORNEY: Is that supposed to be some kind of joke ? You 're this close to the end of you career in law enforcement , you 're making jokes ?
RICHIE: I believe Frank Lucas is above the mafia in the dope business . I believe he buys direct from the source in Southeast Asia , cuts out all the middlemen , and uses US military planes and personnel to bring pure No . 4 heroin into United States .
TOBACK: Richie has a lot of experience -
US ATTORNEY: Does he . And how many arrests has he made in his so-called investigation ?
RICHIE: I was promised when I took this job , it was about real arrests .
US ATTORNEY: Does that mean ` none ? '
RICHIE: I have cases against most of Frank 's organization . Not him -
US ATTORNEY: Frank 's organization -
RICHIE: That 's right .
US ATTORNEY: No fucking nigger has accomplished what the American Mafia has n't in a hundred years !
RICHIE: Yeah , you 'd know , sitting here , having never been on the -
US ATTORNEY: Lou , get this fucking kike out of here -
TOBACK: He was out of line , Richie .
FRANK: Ten million dollars means nothing to me .
FRANK: This - is his death warrant .
MRS. LUCAS: Frankie -
FRANK: Is that where I 'm going ?
MRS. LUCAS: I never asked you where all this came from because I did n't want to hear you lie to me . Do n't lie to me . Do n't do that , too .
MRS. LUCAS: Do you really want to make things so ad for your family they 'll leave you ? Because they will . She will - I know I will .
TOBACK: Where is it ?
RICHIE: Lou . We 're ready to go in there knowing there 's a good chance we wo n't all come out . That 's what we 're willing to do . All I 'm asking you to do get me a warrant . Silence on the other end of the line
JONES: How long we gon na wait for it ?
RICHIE: It 'll be here .
SPEARMAN: I got to talk to Teddy .
SPEARMAN: What the fuck is that ? I got business with Teddy and it 's none of your fuckin usiness except to knock on the fuckin door and get him .
RICHIE: What kind of trees are these ?
FRANK: You think you got Frank Lucas . You got nothing .
JUDGE: Mr. Roberts -
RICHIE: Thank you , your Honor . Ladies and gentlemen -
FRANK: Here he is , let me talk to him alone .
FRANK: I just heard something . I said it could n't be true . You did n't really turn in a million dollars you found in the trunk of a car , did you ?
RICHIE: Maybe .
FRANK: Maybe ? No . It did . All you did was give it to them for nothing in return . Not nothing You got their contempt . Frank studies him .
RICHIE: I do n't have the time or interest to listen to -
FRANK: You did it because it was right . That 's all . Why 's that hard to say ? The question is would you do it again ? That was a long time ago . It 'd be very easy to find out . Tell me you want to find out , tell me the address , and a ca will be there , the trunk loaded . Richie knows Frank is n't kidding
RICHIE: No , thanks . Frank suddenly explodes -
FRANK: Who the fuck are you to say no to that ? You think that impresses me ?
RICHIE: Then that 's the way it is .
FRANK: You have any sort of case ? Or just that idiot drives for my brother . Is he your case ? Because if it 's just him and the powder , it 's not enough .
RICHIE: Then you got nothing to worry about .
FRANK: My brothers wo n't talk to you . My cousins . None of my family . No one but that mother fucking driver .
RICHIE: I got more than that . I got a line of people wanting to testify that stretches out the door and around the block .
FRANK: Bullshit .
RICHIE: Is it ? Tony the Bug . Benny Two-Socks . Carmine Camanetti .
FRANK: Who the fuck are they ? I do n't know them and they do n't know me .
RICHIE: They sell dope for the Mazzano crime family . Which you all but put out of usiness .
FRANK: This is who you 're going to put on the stand ? Guys who do n't know me ? Who got nothing to do with me ?
RICHIE: They have everything to do with you . And the only thing they hate more than you is what you represent .
FRANK: I do n't represent nothing .
RICHIE: You do n't ? Black businessman like you ? Of course you do . But once you 're gone , things can return to normal .
FRANK: Look at me . You looking ? Can you tell y looking it would mean nothing to me if tomorrow you turned up dead ?
RICHIE: Get in line . That one stretches around the block , too .
FRANK: What can we do ?
RICHIE: You know what you have to do .
FRANK: I could give you cops , but that 's not who you want , is it . You want organized crime names .
RICHIE: I 'll take them , too . I want them all .
FRANK: You 'll take them , too ? You 'd go afte cops ? Are you serious ? You 'd do that ? Lock up your own kind ?
RICHIE: They 're not . Not the ones in business with you . They 're not my kind any more than the Italians are yours .
FRANK: What can you promise me ?
RICHIE: I can promise you if you lie to me about one name , you 'll never get out of prison . Lie about one dollar in one offshore account , you 'll never get out . You can live rich in jail the rest of your life , or poor outside it , that 's what I can promise .
FRANK: You know , I do n't care if the feds take all my buildings , my stocks , my off-shore accounts . They can take it all , I do n't care - use it to build battleships , paint idges , whatever the fuck they want . Fight another war . But those othe motherfuckers - the cops - put my money in their pockets . Millions .
RICHIE: I believe it .
FRANK: Oh , I remember them all . That 's not the problem .
RICHIE: What is ?
FRANK: The jail 's are n't big enough .
FRANK: I used to sit here with Ana in my old car . She hated it . Now I do n't even have a car . Or her .
RICHIE: What ?
FRANK: The fuck is that ? Just do what ?
RICHIE: Sneakers . Expensive ones .
FRANK: Who the fuck would buy those ?
RICHIE: Your brothers know you 're out ?
FRANK: I have n't talked to them in years . It 's etter that way . For them . I do n't know where they are . Went back to Greensboro when they got out , I guess .
RICHIE: I told you I would n't let you starve .
FRANK: You told me but you can barely take care of yourself .
FRANK: I wo n't . I 'm just saying I could .
RICHIE: You 're welcome .
FRANK: Uh-oh . Look out . Here come the gangsters .
GANGSTA 2: What .
GANGSTA 1: Nothing . They move on . Frank glances to Richie .
FRANK: Every idiot gets to be young once .
WOLFMAN: Awwrigght , baay-haay-baay ! I got a oldie for yagonna knock ya right on de flowabaay-haay-hee-baay !
TERRY: Hey , whadaya say ? Curt ? Last night in town , you guys gon na have a little ash before you leave ?
STEVE: The Moose have been lookin ' for you all day , man .
CURT: Oh great
TERRY: Whadaya got , whadaya got ? Wowtwo thousand dollars . Two thousand doll
STEVE: Mr. Jenning could n't find you , so he gave it to me to give to you . He said he 's sorry it 's so late , but it 's the first scholarship the Moose Lodge has given out . Oh yeah , he says they 're all very proud of you . Curt hands the envelope back to Steve .
CURT: Well ah why do n't you hold onto it for a while ?
STEVE: What 's with you ? It 's yours ! Take it ! I do n't want it .
TERRY: I 'll take it .
CURT: Steve Ah , I think we 'd bette have a talk . I 've gotten-
STEVE: Your sister calls . I 'll talk to you later .
CURT: Now , Steve ! Let her wait .
STEVE: Okay , make it short and sweet .
CURT: Yeah , well Listen I I do n't think I 'm going tomorrow .
STEVE: What ! Come on , what are you talking about ?
CURT: I do n't know . I was thinking I might wait for a year go to city
STEVE: You chicken fink .
CURT: Wait , let me explain
STEVE: You ca n't back out now ! After all we went through to get accepted . We 're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your celllook , I got ta talk to Laurie . Now take it . We 're leaving in the morning . Okay ?
CURT: I just want some time to think . What 's the rush ? I 'll go next year .
STEVE: We 'll talk later .
RADIO: `` Here comes the WolfmanWolfman Jack ! ''
GIRL: Hi John !
JOHN: Not too good , huh ?
CURT: Why is it every girl that comes around here is ugly ? Or has a boyfriend ? Where is the dazzling beauty I 've een searching for all my life ?
JOHN: I know what you mean . The pickin 's are really gettin ' slim . The whole strip is shrinking . Ah , you know , I emember about five years ago , take you a couple of hours and a tank full of gas just to make one circuit . It was really somethin . '
CURT: Hey , John . Someone new in town .
JOHN: Ahhh .
CURT: You gon na go after him ?
JOHN: Hey , listen , Professor , if he ca n't find me , then he ai n't worth racin ' , ight ?
CURT: The big shot !
BUDDA: A cherry-vanilla coke and a chocolate mountain . Anything else you want , Steve ? If there is you let me know now . Just honk and I 'm yours .
STEVE: Where was I ?
LAURIE: Um , how you thought high school omances were goofy and we started going together just because you thought I was kinda cute and funny , ut then you suddenly realized you were in love with me , it was serious and ah oh , you were leadin ' up to somethin ' kinda big .
STEVE: You make it sound like I 'm giving dictation . Well , seriously , what I meant was , that ah since we do care for each other so much , and since we should really conside ourselves as adults . Now , I , ah could I have a couple of those fries ?
LAURIE: `` consider ourselves adults ''
STEVE: Right right anyway , I thought maybe , before I leave , we could ah agree that that seeing other people while I 'm away ca n't possibly hurt , you know ?
LAURIE: You mean dating other people ?
STEVE: I think it would strengthen ou elationship . Then we 'd know fo sure that we 're really in love . Not that there 's any doubt .
LAURIE: I think you 're right . I mean , we 're not kids anymore , and it 's silly to think that when we 're three thousand miles apart we should n't be able to see other people and go out .
STEVE: Laurie , now , listen , I did n't ask for that back . I think that
LAURIE: I know . I just sort of think it 's juvenile now . I 'll keep it at home . It 's less conspicuous there .
STEVE: You do n't want to wear it ?
LAURIE: I did n't say that . I understand and I 'm not upset . I mean , I ca n't expect you to be a monk or something while you 're away .
TERRY: and I have a really sharp record collection . I even have `` Pledging My Love '' by Johnny Ace . Anyway , how can you love Nelson when he 's going out with Marilyn Gator . Since he dumped on you maybe we could
BUDDA: He did n't dump on me , you little dip . Hi , Steve !
TERRY: She 's a little conceitedjust playing hard to get .
STEVE: Listen , I came over here to talk to you about
TERRY: Any time , buddy . I 'm your man . Nothing I like better than chewing the rug with a pal . You talk , I 'll listen . I 'm all ears . Shoot .
STEVE: Shut up .
TERRY: Sure .
STEVE: Terry , I 'm going to let you take care of my car while we 're awayat least until Christmas . I 'm afraid if I leave it with my
CURT: Hey , siswhat 's wrong ?
LAURIE: Nothing .
STEVE: Now listen , only 30 weight Castrol- R. I 've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment . Are you listening ?
CURT: What 's wrong , he 's crying !
TERRY: I ca n't believe it . I do n't know what to say . I 'll love and protect this car until death do us part . This is a superfine machine . This may even be better than Daryl Starbird 's superfleck moonbird . It is better than Daryl Starbird 's .
BUDDA: You 've got to be kidding !
TERRY: Would I kid you about a thing like that ? I want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything . I 've got a new
JOHN: Hey , did she do that to you ?
STEVE: Let 's get going . It seems like we 've spent most of our lives in this parking lot .
TERRY: Hey , Curt , let 's bomb around , I wan na try out my new wheels !
CURT: I 'd like to , Toad , but I 'm going with Steve and Laurie to the hop . I 'd just slow you down anyway .
TERRY: Yeah , tonight things are going to be different .
JOHN: Hey , wait a minute , you 're goin ' to the Hop ? The Freshman Hop ?
CURT: Yeah .
JOHN: Oh , come on , man . That place is fo kids . You two just got your ass out of there . Do n't go back now .
CURT: You ai n't got no emotions ?
TERRY: We 're gon na remember all of the good times , is what we 're gon na do .
JOHN: Yeah , well , go .
CURT: Why do n't you come with us ?
JOHN: Bullshit , man !
CURT: Come on . For old time 's sake .
JOHN: Yeah , yeah Well , listen . You go . Go ahead , Curtsy , baby . You go on over there and you remember all the good times you wo n't be having . I ai n't goin ' off to some goddamned fancy college . I 'm stayin ' right here . Havin ' fun , as usual .
TERRY: Jesus , Milner , you 're in a great mood tonight .
CURT: What 's the matter John ? Did I say somethin ' wrong ? I 'm sorry .
JOHN: Ah , man , it 's nothin ' .
CURT: Well , we 'll see you later , okay ?
JOHN: Right .
CURT: We 'll all do somethin ' together . You know , before Steve leaves . John looks at him suspiciously .
JOHN: Okay , wait a minute . Now , you 're not going ?
CURT: I do n't know .
MAN: This is Joe in Little Rock , way down in the Valley .
WOLFMAN: You callin ' from Little Rock , California ?
MAN: Long distance .
WOLFMAN: My , my , my listen , man , what kind of entertainment you got in that town ?
MAN: All we got is you .
JOHN: Hey , Zudo .
PAZUDO: Hey , Milner .
JOHN: Hey , man , what happened to you flathead ?
PAZUDO: Huh ?
JOHN: What happened to your flathead ?
PAZUDO: Ah , your mother !
JOHN: What ?
PAZUDO: Your mother . Hey , we been talkin ' about you .
JOHN: Yeah ?
PAZUDO: Yeah . There 's a very wicked '55 Chevy lookin ' for you .
JOHN: Yeah , I know .
PAZUDO: Watch out for the cop that 's in Jerry 's Cherry .
JOHN: Yeah . All right , thanks .
GUY: Hey , Toad .
GIRL: Hey , kid .
WOLFMAN: Ah , yeah , listen , you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes ?
MAN: Hit parade on the stethoscope ?
WOLFMAN: No . No , the secret agent spy-scope , man . That pulls in the moon , the sky and the planets and the satellites and the little bitty space men .
MAN: You must have the wrong number , partner .
WOLFMAN: 'Bye .
CURT: What ?
STEVE: We did n't say anything .
CURT: Quick ! Hang a right !
STEVE: What ? Why ?
CURT: Cut over to G Street , I 've just seen a vision ! She was a goddess . You 've got to catch her !
STEVE: I did n't see anything .
LAURIE: We 're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you .
CURT: I 'm telling you , this was the most perfect , dazzling creature I 've eve seen .
STEVE: She 's gone . Forget it .
CURT: She spoke to me . She spoke to me , ight through the window . I think she said , `` I love you . ''
JOHN: Oh , oh . Later .
GUY: Alligator .
JOHN: Hey , you 're new around here . Where 're you from ?
FIRST GIRL: Turlock .
JOHN: Turlock ? You know a guy named Frank Bartlett ?
FIRST GIRL: No . Does he go to Turlock High ?
JOHN: Well , he used to . He goes to J.C. now .
FIRST GIRL: Do you go to J.C. ?
JOHN: Yeah , sure .
FIRST GIRL: Oh , wow ! Do you know Guy Phillips ?
JOHN: Yeah , sure . I got him in a class .
FIRST GIRL: He 's so boss .
JOHN: How would you like to ride around with me for awhile ?
FIRST GIRL: I 'm sorry , I ca n't . I 'm going steady .
JOHN: Ah , come on !
FIRST GIRL: I just ca n't .
JOHN: You 're just ridin ' around with a unch of girls . Hey , how about somebody else in there ? Anybody else want to go for a ride ?
CAROL: I 'll go . I 'll go .
FIRST GIRL: Judy 's sister wants to ride with you . Is that all right ?
JOHN: Yeah , sure , Judyher sisterhe motheranybody . I 'll take 'em all . Listen , we 'll go up and stop at that light . It 'll turn red by the time we get there . All right ?
CAROL: Old enough . How old are you ?
JOHN: I 'm too old for you .
CAROL: You ca n't be that old .
JOHN: Listen , listen . I think you bette go back and sit with your sister . Hey , ah where are they , anyway ? They comin ' back or somethin ' ? This is a joke , right ? This better be a joke , 'cause I 'm not drivin ' you around .
CAROL: But you asked me . What 's the matter ? Am I too ugly ? Judy does n't want me with her and now you do n't want me with you . Nobody wants me even my mother and fathe hate me . Everybody hates me .
JOHN: No they do n't . I mean , I do n't know , maybe they do . But I do n't . It 's just that you 're a little young fo me .
CAROL: I am not ! If you throw me out I 'll scream .
JOHN: OK , OK , just stay cool . There 's no need to scream . We 'll think of something . It should n't take too long to find your sister again .
CAROL: Hey , is this what they call copping a feel ?
JOHN: NO ! Uh uh . N-O . Do n't even say that . Jesus John is beginning to sweat now .
CAROL: What 's your name ?
JOHN: Mud , if anybody sees you .
TERRY: What you got in there , kid ?
KID: More than you can handle .
OLDER MAN: Excuse me , but I think we 've had an accident .
TERRY: Well , goddamnit , I wo n't report you this time , but next time just watch it , will ya ?
SALESMAN: I 'll give you $ 525 for her on a practically new Corvette and on top of this , I 'm going to know 10 % off the low price of this beautiful Vette . I 'm talking about only $ 98 down and $ 98 a month . Now , how am I able to make you this incredible offer ? I 'll tell you ! I 'm forced to move all the sporty cars off the lot as quickly as I can . Boss 's orders . He does n't want 'em . I think it 's a mistake , but what can I do ?
PEG: Hey , why are you so depressed ? You 'll forget him in a week . Listen , afte you 're elected senior queen you 'll have so many boys after your bod
LAURIE: I do n't want to go out with anybody else .
PEG: Laurie , I know it 's a drag but you can'tremember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick ? When Mike went to the Marines ? She had a nervous eakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus .
LAURIE: I just wish I could go with him o something .
PEG: Laurie , jeez Come on .
STEVE: What 's that ?
EDDIE: What 's what ? Steve turns and pulls Eddie 's hand up .
STEVE: Hey , zit make-up ! Wait till I tellhey , everybody , Eddie
EDDIE: Come on , Stevedo n't . Just cool it .
STEVE: Let me see some of that stuff .
EDDIE: You leave tomorrow ? Steve nods .
STEVE: No , but we got it worked out . We 're still going together but we can date other people .
EDDIE: And screw aroundI hear college girls really give out .
STEVE: Come on .
LAURIE: Come on what ?
STEVE: Let 's dance .
LAURIE: No thanks .
STEVE: Laurie , I want to dance .
LAURIE: Who 's stopping you ?
STEVE: Laurie , I thought since this was ou last night together for 3 months , you might want to dance with me .
LAURIE: How sentimental . You 'll be back at Christmas .
STEVE: I want to dance now , not at Christmas . He takes her arm , which she pulls away .
LAURIE: Get your cooties off me
EDDIE: Uh , Peg , I think we should dance .
PEG: No , this is getting good .
LAURIE: I 'll dance with you , Eddie . You do n't mind , do you , Peggy ?
PEG: Joe College strikes out .
MR. WOLFE: Curtis , come here . Help me , will you ? I 'm surrounded .
GIRL: You wo n't dance ? Come on .
MR. WOLFE: No , really , I 'd like to , but I ca n't . I mean , if old Mr. Simpson came in here and saw me dancing with one of you sexy littleexcuse me one of you young ladies , he 'd have my rea end .
GIRLS: Aahhh .
MR. WOLFE: Hey , Warren . Come on , gentlemen , ack inside . Put 'em out . Let 's go .
CURT: Kids Want one ?
MR. WOLFE: All right . Hey , I thought you 'd left .
CURT: No , not yet . I have no matches .
MR. WOLFE: Brother , how do I get stuck with dance supervision ? Will you tell me that ? You going back East ? Boy , I emember the day I went off . Got drunk as hell the night before . Just
CURT: Blotto .
MR. WOLFE: Blotto . Exactly . Barfed on the train all the next day .
CURT: Cute . Very cute . Where 'd you go again ?
MR. WOLFE: Middlebury . Vermont . Got a scholarship .
CURT: And only stayed a semester .
MR. WOLFE: One semester . And after all that , I came back here .
CURT: Why ?
MR. WOLFE: Decided I was n't the competitive type . I do n't know maybe I was scared .
CURT: Well , you know I might find I 'm not the competitive type myself .
MR. WOLFE: What do you mean ?
CURT: Well , I 'm not really sure that I 'm going .
MR. WOLFE: Hey , nowdo n't be stupid . Go . Experience life . Have some fun , Curtis . Then a voice calls from the shadows .
JANE: I meanMr . Wolfe . Can I speak with you a minute . Hi , Curt .
CURT: Jane
MR. WOLFE: Anywaygood luck , Curtis . Curt shakes his hand .
CURT: Yeah I 'll see you . Thanks a lot .
CAROL: So the next night we found out where they parked and went out with ammunition .
JOHN: Do n't you have homework or something to do ?
CAROL: No sweatmy mother does it . Anyway , he thought he was had . He started the car and could n't see through the windshieldand zoomed straight into the canalit was a riot . John smiles sarcastically .
JOHN: Hey , watch it will ya ! Jesus Christ , thanks a lot . Hey , drivin ' is a serious business . I ai n't havin ' no accidents because of you .
CAROL: Spare me , killer .
JOHN: I do n't like that surfing shit . Rock ' n Roll 's been going downhill eve since Buddy Holly died .
CAROL: Do n't you think the Beach Boys are oss !
JOHN: You would , you grungy little twerp .
CAROL: Grungy ? You big weenie , if I had a oyfriend he 'd pound you .
JOHN: Sureah , shit , Holstein !
CAROL: Good , a copI 'm going to tell him you tried to rape me . John pulls the car over and stops .
JOHN: Oh , noNo . Hey
CAROL: It 's past my curfew . I 'm going to tell him how old I am , my parents do n't know I 'm out and you tried to ape me . Boy , are you up a creek . John looks at her .
JOHN: Heyah , reallydo n't say anything . She looks at him .
CAROL: If you say `` I was a dirty bird . Carol 's not grungy , she 's bitchin ' . ''
JOHN: I was a dirty bird , Carol 's not grungy , she 's bitchin . '
CAROL: OkayI 'll think about it .
HOLSTEIN: Where you going , Milner ?
JOHN: I 'm going homesir .
HOLSTEIN: Where you been , Milner ?
JOHN: Ahat the moviessir .
HOLSTEIN: Milner , you were n't around the 12th and G streets at about 8 30 , were you ?
JOHN: No , I wa at the movieslike I said sir .
HOLSTEIN: Uh-huh . Milner , the reason I stopped you was because the light on you license plate is out . I 'm gon na have to cite you for that . And Milner , the front end of this this this thing you 're driving looks a little low .
JOHN: Oh , no sir . It 's twelve and a half inches . Regulation size . Now , it 's een checked several times . You can check it if you like , sir .
HOLSTEIN: Look , Milner .
JOHN: Yes , sir .
HOLSTEIN: You ca n't fool with the law .
JOHN: Yes , sir .
HOLSTEIN: We know that was you tonight . We have an excellent description of this car . I could run you in right now and I could make it stick . But I 'm not gon na do that , Milner , you know why ? John shakes his head no .
JOHN: Thank youasshole .
CAROL: You 're a regular J.D .
JOHN: Here , file that under C.S . over there .
CAROL: C.S. ? What 's that stand for ?
JOHN: Chicken shitthat 's what it is .
CAROL: Oh
GIRLFRIEND: Ai n't he neat ?
FALFA: Hey , you know a guy around here with a piss yellow deuce coupesupposed to be hot stuff ?
TERRY: You mean John Milner ? Falfa nods slowly .
FALFA: I ai n't nobody , dork . Right ?
TERRY: Right
FALFA: Hey , you see this Milner , you tell him I 'm lookin ' for him , huh ? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road .
GIRLFRIEND: Ai n't he neat ?
TERRY: What a babe what a bitchin ' babe And Wolfman Baby , she 's all mine .
DEBBIE: For real ?
TERRY: Yeah . At a Dick Clark road show . Debbie starts slowly toward the car .
DEBBIE: You really think I look like her ?
TERRY: No shitexcuse me , I mean I 'm not just feeding you a line . You look like Connie Stevens . What 's you name ?
DEBBIE: Debbie . I always though I looked like Sandra Dee .
TERRY: Oh yeahwell , you look a lot like her too .
DEBBIE: This your car ?
TERRY: Yeah . I 'm Terry thethey call me Terry the Tiger .
DEBBIE: It 's really tough looking .
TERRY: What school do you go to ?
DEBBIE: Deweycan it lay rubber ?
TERRY: Oh yeah , it 's got a 327 Chevy mill with six Strombergs .
DEBBIE: Wowbitchin ' tuck and roll . I just love the feel of tuck and roll upholstery .
TERRY: You do ?
DEBBIE: Yeah .
TERRY: Well , come on inI 'll let you feel it . I mean , you can touch it if you want I mean the upholstery , you know .
DEBBIE: Okay .
TERRY: What ?
DEBBIE: Peel out . I love it when guys peel out .
GIRL: a great band and they came all the way from Stockton . Let 's hear it . There 's applause as the girl continues .
LAURIE: I do n't care if you leave this second .
GIRL: Now the next dance is gon na be a snowball and leading it off is last year 's class president Steven Bolander and this year 's head cheerleader , Laurie Henderson .
STEVE: What 's wrong with you ! You 're acting like a snotty
LAURIE: Oh God , come on .
STEVE: Come on what ?
LAURIE: Oh , Stevenplease , everybody 's watching . Smile or something .
STEVE: Quitquit pinchingI do n't know why I ever started taking you out in the first place .
LAURIE: You take me out ? When we first met you did n't have enough sense to take the garbage out I asked you out , emember ?
STEVE: What do you mean , you asked me out !
LAURIE: Backwards Dayremember ? If I had waited for you to ask meeven afte that you did n't call me for two weeks .
STEVE: I was busy .
LAURIE: You were scared . Dave Oboler told me . Then when you did ask me out you did n't kiss me for three dates .
STEVE: WellI was
LAURIE: ScaredJim Kaylor told me . I even asked my father why you had n't kissed me .
STEVE: Your fathergreat !
LAURIE: He said he thought you were bright and you 'd probably think of kissing me after a while . He moans .
STEVE: Out at the canyon ?
LAURIE: Oh boy ! You ca n't remember anything the first one , up at the lake . That was the first time you kissed meI practically had to throw myself at you .
STEVE: I remember .
LAURIE: Go to hell .
WENDY: What are you doin ' , stealing hu caps ?
CURT: Wellhey , Wendy .
WENDY: How 've you been ?
CURT: Fine . Great . How 've you been ?
WENDY: I 'm comingwait a sec . She 's got her car . Hey , I thought you were going away to school .
CURT: Ah , maybe maybe .
WENDY: Same old Curt . All the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing well , anyway , I got ta go .
CURT: Hey , Wendywhere are you going ?
WENDY: Nowhere .
CURT: Well , you mind if I come along ?
WENDY: Okay .
CURT: Okay . They go off toward the VW and climb in .
MR. KROOT: All right , Bolander , break it up . You know the rules . You and you panting girlfriend want to do that you 'll have to go someplace else .
STEVE: Hey , Kroot !
KROOT: What ? What did you say ?
STEVE: I said go kiss a duck , marblehead .
MR. KROOT: Bolanderyou 're suspended . You 're do n't even come Monday . You are out !
STEVE: I graduated last semester .
MAN: This is Weird Willard .
WOLFMAN: Hold on a minute , let me get my pants off you understand ?
STEVE: Why do n't we go to the canal ?
LAURIE: What for ?
STEVE: Listen , I can get tough with you too , you know .
LAURIE: Yeah , hard tough .
TERRY: I go to Dewey too , ya know .
DEBBIE: I never seen ya .
TERRY: I bug out a lot . When I graduate , I 'm going to join the Marines .
DEBBIE: They got the best uniforms . But what if there 's a war ?
TERRY: With the bomb , who 's going to start it ? We 'd all blow up together . Anyway , I 'd rather be at the front . I 'm like thatrather be where the action is , you know . Once I got in a fight with
DEBBIE: I love Eddie Burns .
TERRY: Eddie Burnsoh , yeah , Eddie Burns . I met him once , too .
DEBBIE: You really think I look like Connie Stevens ? I like herTuesday Weld is too much of a beatnik , do n't you think ?
TERRY: Yeah , beatniks are losers .
DEBBIE: Who do you like ? I mean , singers and stuff . Terry slowly maneuvers his arm around her .
TERRY: Ah hellI like most of the people you like .
DEBBIE: That 's nicewe got a lot in common .
TERRY: Sure
DEBBIE: And cherry cokes .
TERRY: Now wait a minute . What ? Huh ?
VIC: Hey , Deb . How 's my soft baby ?
DEBBIE: Beat it , Vic . I 'm not your baby . Terry nervously pretends not to hear .
VIC: Oh , come on , honey . So I never called you back . I 've been , you know , busy
DEBBIE: Three weeks besides , it only took one night for me to realize that if ains were dynamite , you could n't low your nose .
VIC: Look who 's talking . Who 's the wimp you 're hanging out with now ? Einstein ?
DEBBIE: Tiger happens to be very intelligent . Unlike you . I know every thing you dirty little mind is thinking it shows
TERRY: Hey , now I mean , hey now , buddy , the lady obviously does n't
VIC: Look , creep , you want a knuckle sandwich ?
TERRY: Ah , no thanks , I 'm waiting for a double ChubbyChuck
VIC: Then shut your smart ass mouth ! I 'll call ya , Deb , some night when I 'm hard up .
DEBBIE: I wo n't be home .
TERRY: You seem to , ahknow a lot of weird guys .
DEBBIE: That sex fiend is not a friend of mine ; he 's just horny . That 's why I like you , you 're different .
TERRY: I am ? You really think I 'm intelligent ?
DEBBIE: Yeah . And I 'll bet you 're smart enough to get us some brew .
TERRY: Brew ?
DEBBIE: Yeah .
TERRY: Brew ohyeah oh , sure Yes ! Liquor ! This place is too crowded anyway .
CAR HOP: What about your double Chubby Chuck , mexicali-chili-barb and two cherry cokes , sir ?
CURT: Theredo n't you see it ? Speed up , you 're losing her
BOBBIE: Quit shouting in my ear !
CURT: Cut around him , cut around him .
WENDY: What 's wrong with you ? You know Bobbie gets nose bleeds when she 's upset .
BOBBIE: I do not ! You shut up !
CURT: Lost her again . Ah , Wendy , my old lover , come back here and console me .
WENDY: Eat your heart out . Who was she anyway ?
CURT: I do n't know , but I 'm going to find out .
BOBBIE: I know her !
CURT: Okay , come on , who is she ?
BOBBIE: You know Mr. Beeman ? He owns Hepcat Jewelers .
CURT: Yeah .
BOBBIE: Well , she 's his wife .
CURT: But she was young and beautiful , and cruising 10th Street . You 're thinking of someone else .
WENDY: Mr. Beeman 's not so old .
CURT: What cruel fate keeps me from my true love ? How am I ever going to meet her ?
WENDY: Did you know that my ex is going to ecome a presidential aide ? It 's supposed to be a secret , but his big ambition in life is to shake hands with President Kennedy . How are you going to accomplish that at J.C. ?
CURT: Maybe I 've grown up . Maybe I 've changed my mind .
WENDY: Maybe you do n't think you can do it !
CURT: Maybe you should shut up !
WENDY: Maybe I will and maybe I wo n't .
CURT: Why do n't you move your bod into aft chamber , where we might discuss this in private .
BOBBIE: Thanks a lot .
CURT: Come on , Wendy ? She does n't say anything . They pull up to a stoplight . Wendy looks at the red stoplight and then abruptly gets out of the ca and jumps in the back .
WENDY: Well , slide over , I 'm not sitting on your lap . She gets in and the car goes off .
CURT: To the Opera , James .
BOBBIE: Drop dead .
CURT: Unless you want to go to Gallo Dam and have an orgy .
WENDY: You wish .
CURT: Maybe .
BOBBIE: Look , there 's Kip Pullman ! He 's so neat .
CURT: Huh ? Yeah , I know him .
BOBBIE: Talk to him when we go by .
CURT: What do you want me to say ?
BOBBIE: Anything I just want to meet him .
CURT: Kip , baby , what 's up ?
KIP: Henderson , long time no see . Whadaya een doing ?
CURT: Not much , just wanted to let you know that Bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps
BOBBIE: You creep , fink , son-of-a-bitch
CURT: Help , wait ! JokeJokeBobbie , emember your nose bleeds !
BOBBIE: Get outget out of my carI hate you !
CURT: Excuse meouchWendyI got to go now .
WENDY: Curt , I hope I see you at egistration . Call me if you want . It was nice seeing you again .
CURT: See ya .
CAROL: I 'm so thirsty , I could die . Just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle . It wo n't take a minute , I can drink it in the
JOHN: Why do n't you just get out and get one then ! So long , goodbye , hasta lumbago .
CAROL: Is n't it great , the way I can cry whenever I want . A lot of people ca n't do that , but Vicki showed me how . I bet you ca n't cry .
JOHN: Do n't count on it . I may surprise you any minute now .
CAROL: Thanks for nothing .
JOHN: Probably a couple of weeks past thei edtime .
CAROL: Wait , there 's Dee Dee . I hope she sees me .
JOHN: Oh Shit , Dee Dee !
AL: Hiya , John . Say , do you think if I ought my Mopar by the shop Monday you could spot weld the bumpe acket ?
JOHN: Have to be before noon .
AL: Sure . Hey , have you met Linda ?
JOHN: No . Hiahh , this is my , ahh , cousin , Carol . I 'm kinda babysitting tonight .
CAROL: Babysitting ! !
JOHN: Jesuswatch it , will yuh ? Been hittin ' me all night . Kids will e kids , you know .
CAROL: You spastic creep !
JOHN: We do n't get along too well . You know what cousins are like .
AL: Yeah well , I 'll see ya on Monday efore noon .
CAROL: Hi cousin , how 's your bod ?
DEBBIE: Do you have an ID ?
TERRY: No hey , but no sweat . What 'll it e ? Beer , little wine ?
DEBBIE: If you could get some Old Harper , I 'd give you a French kiss .
TERRY: Old Harper , rrright ! He gives her an OK sign with his fingers and goes over to the store . He starts to enter , then stops and thinks . He sees a man in a business suit approaching , and smiles .
MAN: Yes , son ?
TERRY: Could yousircould you give me the time ?
MAN: Why sure , it 's a quarter to twelve .
TERRY: Great . Quarter to twelve . Thanks a lot .
BUM: Why certainly , I lost my wife , too her name was n't Idy , though , and it was n't in a floodbut I know what ya
TERRY: Thanks , here 's enough for a pint .
MAN: Right-o . Night .
TERRY: Night .
OWNER: Yeah . He went out the back . Terry is destroyed .
TERRY: Yeahahlet me have a Three Musketeers , ah , and a ball point pen ther , a comp , a pint of Old Harper , couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky .
OWNER: Okay , got an I.D . for the liquor ?
TERRY: A what ? Oh , sure Oh nuts , I left itI left it in the car .
OWNER: Sorry , you 'll have to get it before
TERRY: Well , I ca n't . I also ah , forgot the car .
DEBBIE: Hey , did ya get it ? Ya get it , ya get it ? He hands her the bag .
TERRY: Ah , well , I needed some things and I thought as long as I was in there look , Debbie , can you loan me a dollar ?
DEBBIE: What ? Are you for real ? Come on . Girls do n't pay . Guys pay .
TERRY: Yeah , well , seeI 've only got a fifty and he does n't have change .
DEBBIE: Well , I ca n't believe this I really can not believe this . Here .
TERRY: Hiexcuse me . I was wonderingcould you , ah
GUY: Buy you a bottle of booze . Yeah , I know . You lost your I.D . What kind do you want ?
TERRY: Gee , that 's terrific . Ah , just some ahOld Harper .
JOHN: That 's Freddy Benson 's Vette he got his head on with some drunk . Never had a chance . Damn good driver , too . What a waste when somebody gets it and it ai n't even their fault .
CAROL: Needs a paint job , that 's for sure . John does n't hear her and walks on .
JOHN: That Vette over there . Walt Hawkins , a real ding-a-ling . Wrapped it around a fig tree out on Mesa Vista with five kids in it . Draggin ' with five kids in the car , how dumb can you get ? All the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later . Maybe that 's why they invented cars . To get rid of the ding-a-lings . Tough when they take someone with them .
CAROL: You never had a wreck thoughyou told me .
JOHN: I come pretty close a couple of times . Almost rolled once . So far I 've been quick enough to stay out of here . The quick and the dead .
CAROL: I bet you 're the fastest .
JOHN: I 've never been beatenlot of punks have tried . See that '41 Ford there ? Used to be the fastest wheels in the valley . I never got a chance to race old Earl . He got his in '55 in the hairiest crash ever happened around here . He was racing a '54 Chevy , ored and loaded , out on the old Oakdale Highway and every damn kid in town was out there . The Chevy lost its front wheel doing about 85 . The idiot had torched the spindles to lower the front end and it snapped ight off . He slammed bam into the Ford and then they both of them crashed into a row of cars and all those kids watchin ! Jesus , eight kids killed including both drivers , looked like a battlefield . Board of Education was so impressed they filmed it . Show it now in Drivers Education , maybe you 'll see it . Anyway , since then street racing 's gone underground . No spectators , I mean . Too bad .
CAROL: I 'd love to see you race .
JOHN: Come on ! None of that .
CAROL: Whadaya mean ? I 'm the one who 's supposed to say that . Whadaya afraid of ? I 'll keep it above the waist .
JOHN: Funny Who knows , in a few yearsbut not now , bunny rabbit .
CAROL: Bunny rabbit ! Oh brother , you are such a drip .
JOHN: Come on , open the door .
CAROL: If you say `` Carol 's not a bunny , she 's a foxy little tail . ''
JOHN: Carol 's not a rabbit , she 's a foxy little tail .
CAROL: You say the cutest things . John gets into the car .
JOE: Whadaya doin ' , creep ?
CURT: Me ?
JOE: No , I 'm talking to the other fifty creeps here . You know Gil Gonzales ?
CURT: Gil Gonzales no .
JOE: Do n't know Gil you oughta . You eally should .
CURT: Yeah why ?
JOE: No reason he 's a friend of ours and that 's his car you 're sitting on .
CURT: No place . Not going any place .
JOE: Ya must be going someplaceI mean ya left here . Bring him over here , Ants , I want to show him something .
CURT: I guess soyeah .
JOE: You scratched it , man . Where do you get off sitting on Gil 's car , huh , man ?
CURT: I 'm sorry . It 's not much of a scratch . I do n't think he 'll even
JOE: It ai n't the size that 's in question here . It 's the principle . Jeez , this is tough what should we do with ya ?
ANTS: Tie him to the car and drag him .
CURT: That 's funny Hey , you guys know Toby Juarez ? He 's a Pharoah , is n't he ?
JOE: Toby Juarez . Yeah , sure we know Toby .
CURT: He 's a friend of mine .
JOE: Sure , good old Toby . He 's a friend of yours . That 's cool we all hate his guts . Curt stops smiling again .
CURT: Ohwell , I do n't know him that much anyway .
JOE: We killed him last night .
ANTS: Tied him to a car and dragged him .
JOE: This is going to take some thinking . You better come with us maybe . Go riding with the Pharoahs
CURT: Well , I do n't think I canI got ta
JOE: I know just how ya feel .
CARLOS: Shotgun !
ANTS: No , I called it !
CARLOS: When ?
ANTS: Before we picked you up .
CARLOS: You ca n't call it for the whole night , man . I got it now . Get in the back .
WOLFMAN: Pardon me . Your name is Colette ?
OPERATOR: Yes . Collect Call .
WOLFMAN: Your name is Colette Call ?
OPERATOR: Sir , this is the Operator .
WOLFMAN: Are you French , Operator ?
OPERATOR: This is a collect call for Wolfman Jack .
WOLFMAN: I I love you , Operator .
OPERATOR: Is this Wolfman Jack ?
WOLFMAN: Is Floyd there ?
OPERATOR: It 's for a Wolfman Jack Carol looks over at John and shakes her head .
CAROL: I just love listening to the Wolfman . My Mom wo n't let me at home . Because he 's a Negro , I think anyway , he 's terrific . Do you know that he just broadcasts from a plane that flies around in circles all the time ? Do you think that 's true ?
WOLFMAN: You mean Floyd ? Hello , is this Floyd ?
CARLOS: You tell her , Wolfman . He 's my man . When I graduate , I 'm gon na be a Wolfman . Hey , you know he broadcasts out of Mexico someplace ?
JOE: No , he do n't . I seen the station ight outside of town .
CARLOS: That 's just a clearing station , man . So he can fool the cops . He blasts that thing all the way around the world . It 's against the law , man . In the back seat , Ants nods in agreement .
ANTS: Ah , manthey 'll never catch the Wolfman .
JOE: He who smelt it , dealt it . Hey , creep , scoot down . Sitting up like that , it wrecks the lines of the car , you know what I mean ?
ANTS: Hey , man , he looks like a whimp . Curt nods and tries to join in .
CURT: Probably is . Whimps get all the snatch .
CARLOS: Milner ai n't gon na beat that . His time has come . He 's getting old . He ai n't as fast as he used to be .
JOHN: You got two seconds to get your ass over in the corner .
CAROL: Do n't worry , I wo n't rape you .
GIRL: You got a bitchin ' car . John nods modestly .
JOHN: If the prize is you , honey , I 'm a eady Teddy .
GIRL: Yeah , well get bent turkey .
CAROL: All right , very funny . What a chop . Ha ha . Quit laughing ! ! John tries to control himself , but ca n't .
JOHN: Hey , wait a
CAROL: Just do what I say !
JOHN: Yezz , bozz .
TERRY: Tootie fruiti all ruti It 's Supe Cola !
DEBBIE: It 's the living end . Terry takes a smaller sip this time
TERRY: Yeaah , I guess it was n't mixed .
DEBBIE: Wow , it 's pretty tonight . It 's a perfect night to go horseback riding I was going with a guy once who had a horse . Terry chokes .
TERRY: Oh yeah ? I used to have a couple of horses myself .
DEBBIE: Really ?
TERRY: I used them for hunting . I do a lot of hunting . Deer mostly , although I got a couple of bear last year . Yep , they were good ponieshunting ponies . I had to train 'em special , you know .
DEBBIE: Do you still have 'em ? We could go for a ride .
TERRY: No , I had to sell 'em . To get these wheels and a jeep . I also have a jeep pick-up , with four-wheel drive . It 's got a gun rack . And I use that for hunting mostly .
DEBBIE: Why do you kill little animals ? I think that 's terrible .
TERRY: Oh , well , yeah , I figure with bears , though , it 's either me or them You know , I think you 're really neat .
DEBBIE: Wait a second . Terry immediately lets go of her .
TERRY: Oh , jeez , I 'm sorry . I do n't know what got into meI did n't mean to maybe it 's the booze or something .
DEBBIE: Therenow .
TERRY: I 'm sorry .
DEBBIE: Let me get my head over hereokay , now you get up
TERRY: Owmy leg , my leg . Ow , watch it !
DEBBIE: Ummm , I just love tuck ' n roll upholstery .
TERRY: Geez , it 's like Grand Central Station around here . Why do n't we go someplace else . Debbie pulls him back down on top of her .
DEBBIE: Nah , come on . They wo n't come back .
TERRY: Wait a minute . I got a blanket in the back . Why do n't we go over into the field ?
DEBBIE: All right . Okay .
WOLFMAN: How old are you ?
GIRL: I 'm thirteen , how old are you ?
WOLFMAN: I 'm only fourteen .
GIRL: Oh , boy , I love you , Wolfman .
SINGERS: `` Wolfman Jack . ''
WOLFMAN: Oh , now we gon na do the weather fo all the valleys and the mountain tops . Gon na be hot about 200 degrees in Merced , 400 degrees out in Fresno , and I know we 're gon na have about 500 degrees up around the valley somewhere . You got the Wolfman Jack Show .
CURT: Hey , terrific , I love miniature golf .
JOE: I hate it .
CURT: Well , I do n't play that often really . Ahwhat 're we doing here then ?
JOE: We 're outta gas .
CURT: They do n't sell gas here .
JOE: No but we 're outta money , too . Come on , Carl .
CURT: Curt .
JOE: All right , men .
MR. GORDON: What 're you punks doing ?
CURT: Hey , hi . Mr. Gordon , what 's up ? The man looks at Curt , surprised .
MR. GORDON: HendersonCurt Henderson ? You with these punks ?
CURT: These are my friends . We were just
MR. GORDON: Jeez , you guys had me scared .
CURT: Oh ahnono , I 'm not Mr. Gordon looks puzzled .
MR. GORDON: Tomorrow . Well , listen , Hank Anderson 's inside . Come in and say goodbye . You know , Hank 's the one that brought your name up on the floor of the Moose Hall . You got the check , did n't you ?
HANK: We are all proud of you , Curt . The Moose Scholarship could n't have gone to a better boy . And if there 's anything we can do , let us know .
MR. GORDON: Yeah , you 'll stay in touch by letter , wo n't you ?
JOE: Hey , we 're all done out here .
MR. GORDON: All done ? Whatwhat 's he mean ?
CURT: Ah , he means , we 're all done having loads of fun out here .
MR. GORDON: Oh , well
HANK: Wonderful . You can have all the fun you want . This place is for fun .
CURT: Yes . Yes , it is . Thank you . Thank you both .
MR. GORDON: Good luck now .
HANK: Before I say goodbye , Curt , I want to tell you I hope you 'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place .
CURT: I think I have .
HANK: Good . Do n't forget us .
CURT: No , I wo n't forget you and you wo n't forget me .
MR. GORDON: Okay . 'Bye .
HANK: Good-bye and good luck .
CURT: 'Bye .
JOE: It was nice to meet yuh .
CURT: Right . What he said goes for me , too .
JOE: Yeah , you just might make it as a Pharoah yet , boy .
HANK: Some day he 'll make a fine Moose .
DEBBIE: What 's wrong ?
TERRY: I thought I heard something .
DEBBIE: What ?
TERRY: The radio is gone That meansthe car is gone !
LAURIE: You know , it does n't make sense to leave home to look for a home , to give up a life to find a new life , to say goodbye to friends you love just to find new friends .
STEVE: What ? Say that again , I did n't
LAURIE: That 's what Curt said .
STEVE: Oh , figures . You must 've talked his ear off trying to get him to stay .
LAURIE: That 's not true . I did n't say anything . Curt just said at dinne tonight he realized there was no big hurry . He thought he should take it easy for a while , go to J.C. and try to figure out what he wants to do with his life .
STEVE: That sounds logical . Laurie 's expression changes .
LAURIE: You think so ?
STEVE: Sure . I think Curt 's probably right for Curt . Not for me though . Laurie , look at me . Now you know what I want out of life . And it 's just not in this town .
LAURIE: I 'm not going to the airport tomorrow .
STEVE: It 's our last night together fo three months come on .
LAURIE: We 've been through this before .
STEVE: I 'm going to miss you so much . I need something to remember you by . You do n't want me to forget you . She closes her eyes , trying not to cry .
LAURIE: No
STEVE: What 's wrong ? You 're just lying there .
LAURIE: Well go ahead , you want to .
STEVE: Not like that .
LAURIE: If you 're not going to remember me for anything else , why do n't you go ahead ?
STEVE: You want it and you know it . Do n't e so damn self-righteous with me . After those things you told me about watching your brother
LAURIE: You 're disgusting ! Get out of my car ! I told you never
STEVE: I 'm sorry .
LAURIE: Get out ! It 's not worth it . I do n't care if you 're leavingnow get out !
DEBBIE: Anyway , the Goat Killer
TERRY: Let 's talk about something else .
DEBBIE: Whenever he strikes , he leaves a loody goat 's head near the victim . Is n't that creepy ?
TERRY: Who do you think 'll take the regionals this
DEBBIE: not only were there bloody goats ' heads , but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around . You know putting her arms on him and his legs on
TERRY: Wait a second . Did you hear ?
DEBBIE: You think it 's the Goat Killer ?
TERRY: No ! I mean , no . Listen , I 'll go fo help , you stay here .
DEBBIE: Come on , we 'll hide in the field .
TERRY: I do n't want to see the whole thing . Especially if it 's us heoh , why me ? I 'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat 's head and
DEBBIE: Shhhhe 's stopped . I ca n't see him veryI think he 's coming this way . She edges off to get a better view .
TERRY: Well , as long as he 's notDebbie ! Debbie !
STEVE: Terry .
TERRY: Steve !
DEBBIE: Over there .
TERRY: Well , do n't go off again . Come on , let 's get out of here .
STEVE: What 're you doing out here ? Hey , where 's my rod ?
TERRY: Um , oh , did I introduce you ? This is Debbie . Debbie , this is Steve .
DEBBIE: Hello .
STEVE: Hi .
DEBBIE: Hi .
STEVE: Well , what about my car ?
TERRY: Um I'ts in the garage . I put it in the garage for safe keeping . I mean I do n't want to take any chances with it .
STEVE: Oh , great .
DEBBIE: Yeah . Yeah . It 's a good thing too . 'Cause somebody stole our car .
STEVE: Really ? That 's terrible . What kind was it ?
TERRY: Gee , ah , where 's Laurie , anyway ?
STEVE: I guess we broke up .
TERRY: You broke up ? Bull !
CAROL: It does n't look like a gear shift knob .
JOHN: Come on , will ya ? Give it back to me .
CAROL: Well , go ahead , cream me . What 's wrong , you 're a tough guy . Break my arm , see if I care .
JOHN: Forget it .
CAROL: I was just going to keep it for a little while . You 're an ogre , just like my father . He wo n't let me play ecords , or stay out late , o anything .
JOHN: He ahdoes n't like you to stay out late ?
CAROL: Nohe 's terrible . Once I was at a party that did n't end till late and he called the cops . Can you imagine ? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force
JOHN: Say , where do you live anyway ?
CAROL: Over on Ramona , why ? Oh no . Uh uh . You thought I 'd tell you wherenot me , not old Carol . The night is young and I 'm not hitting the rack until I get a little action .
JOHN: Grab onto something .
FALFA: Sorry if I scared ya , man .
JOHN: Takes more than that to scare me .
FALFA: Where ya been hiding ? Did n't anyone tell ya I been looking for ya ?
JOHN: Hey , I ca n't keep tracka all the punks lookin ' for me .
FALFA: They say you 're the fastest thing in the Valley . But that ca n't be you car , man . That must be your mama 's car . Hell , I feel embarrassed just getting near ya .
JOHN: Ya should , manyou 're driving a field car .
FALFA: Field car ? What 's a Field Car ?
JOHN: Field Cars drive through the fields , dropping cow shit all over the place to make the lettuce grow .
FALFA: That 's pretty good . Hey , I like that paint job you got . What they call thatsorta a cross between Piss Yellow and Puke Green , ai n't it ?
JOHN: Yeah , well , you 're car 's so ugly you must have to sneak up on the pumps to get a tank of gas .
FALFA: Well , at least I do n't have to move over to let a funeral go by , man .
CAROL: Your car 's uglier than I am .
FALFA: Come on , boy , prove it . Let 's go .
JOHN: Look kid , why do n't you go out and win a few races , then come back and see me .
CAROL: Oh , race him , you can beat him .
FALFA: Hey , that 's a tough lookin ' girl you got with you , man . What 're you doin ' ? Trying to pick up a few extra bucks abysitting ? Hey , Doll . Why do n't you come on and ide with mein about ten years ?
JOHN: Leave her out of this . This is just etween you and me .
CAROL: Wow ! He 's really fast , is n't he ?
JOHN: Yeah . But he 's stupid .
CURT: Heyany of you guys know a blonde in a white T-Bird ?
JOE: Yeah , I seen her , what about it ?
CURT: I was just wondering who she is .
JOE: She 's outta your price range , man . My brother 's been with her and he clued me in .
CURT: Price range ? You mean she 's a
JOE: Yeah , Thirty Dollar Sheri . Can you elieve that ? Thirty dollars .
CURT: We must be thinking of different londes .
CARLOS: Hey man , do n't tell Joe what he thinks .
ANTS: Thirty dollars ai n't much . I saw ten thousand once . My old man had it in a suitcase . They caught him the next morning though .
CARLOS: Fuzz ahead , watch it .
JOE: Where ?
CARLOS: Fuzz ahead , watch it .
JOE: Where ?
CARLOS: At Jerrie 's Cherries . You can just arely see the fender .
ANTS: That 's rotten , man . Hiding like that .
CARLOS: That 's shitty .
JOE: It 's dishonest .
STEVE: I think I 'm gon na go over to Burge City .
TERRY: Yeah . Yeah . Laurie 's probably ove there .
STEVE: You really think she 's got me worried about where she is , do n't you ?
TERRY: Well
STEVE: Let me tell you something . I could n't care less . Want to come along ?
DEBBIE: Yeah , I do . I do .
TERRY: No .
STEVE: Make up your minds .
TERRY: No , thanks . U'mm . You know we got to eport the car missing .
STEVE: All right . See yuh .
TERRY: Yeah . See yuh . Steve goes off and Debbie looks at Terry .
DEBBIE: Why ca n't we go to Burger City ?
TERRY: Burger City ? Burger City ! ! ? How can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car . She looks hurt and starts off .
JOE: Listen , ahCarl , I
CURT: Curt .
JOE: Curt .
CURT: Wait a minute , wait a minute , Joe . What if he hears me ?
JOE: Shhh . Listen . Look at it this way Now you got three choices . One , you chicken out . In that case , I let Ants tie you to the car and drag you around a little bit . And you do n't want that , right ?
CURT: No .
JOE: Two , you foul up and Holstein hears you and well , ah you do n't want that , right ?
CURT: No , I do n't .
JOE: Three , you are successful and you join the Pharoahs with a carcoat , and the blood initiation and all that , huh ?
CURT: Waitwait a minute . Wait a minute ! What blood initiation ?
DEBBIE: Hey , why do n't we go get your jeep ?
TERRY: What ? What are you talking about ?
DEBBIE: You know , your jeep . The one you sold the hunting ponies for . The one with the four-wheel drive .
JOE: Hey , you sure you got enough slack ?
CURT: Yeah , yeah . No sweat . Let 's get out of here .
CURT: Stand by for Justice !
CAROL: Why are we stopping here ?
JOHN: Carol
CAROL: What ?
JOHN: II do n't think that I can control myself any longer .
CAROL: You ca n't ?
JOHN: No Carol , I 've got to have you .
CAROL: Me ?
JOHN: All night you 've been sitting there and you 've been so sexy and it 's een so hotand I ca n't wait any more
CAROL: Wellwell , a lot of that 's an act , you know . Like like my crying . It was just an act .
JOHN: Well , it 's been building up inside of me like a volcano , all night . Maybe if I knew where you lived I could fight itI could take you homebut since you wo n't tell me , and since here we areI 've got to have you . It 's too late
CAROL: It 's not too late ! It 's never too late ! 231 Ramonatwo three one
JOHN: Two three one
CAROL: I 'll show you ! It 's easy to find .
BUDDA: Hi . You mind if I sit down ?
STEVE: Hi Budda . No , have a seat .
BUDDA: I got five minutes outa the rat race , and I saw you all alone . For a change .
STEVE: I do n't know .
BUDDA: I thought the two of you 'd be going strong , this being your last night and everything
STEVE: We broke up . Budda looks surprised .
BUDDA: Wow what happened ?
STEVE: Nothing . We were out at the canal and we had a fight . Budda smiles and he looks at her strangely .
BUDDA: Nothing . Just thinking . A girl like LaurieI mean , she goes to school and is cute and popular and all , but we 're not so different . We know what we want . I 've seen her after you fo two years now .
STEVE: She 's not like that .
BUDDA: Maybe not . She does have a different approach . Hers is `` Never surrender , '' me I lay down my arms at the drop of a hat
STEVE: I do n't know
BUDDA: Why do n't you ? I never got a chance to talk to you . You 're leaving tomorrow . Listen , I gave up a long time ago , so it 'd be just for fun . No problems .
STEVE: Budda , Budda wait .
BUDDA: She 's got you so brainwashedwell , hell . Some day I 'm gon na win . Do n't ya think ?
STEVE: Sure .
JOE: Oh mother , it 's been a glorious night .
CARLOS: That was the bitchinest thing I eve seen in my whole life .
ANTS: I seen a little kid attacked by pigs once , but this was even better .
JOE: Oh boy , I 'll tell you something , that car must 've jumped five feet in the air ! Curt nods , feeling pretty good .
CURT: Yeah , there 's some things I got to do . I still want to find that blonde .
JOE: I think she was an optical delusion , man . Psychology-wise it ai n't good to dwell on it . You 'll alter you ego or something . Anyway , catch ya tomorrow night ?
CURT: Yeah , I guess so .
JOE: Guess so ? Man , we do n't admit a lot of guys to the Pharoahs . You understand we 're going to have to swipe your jacket and allyou got ta make up your mind .
CURT: HeyI 'll see you guys .
JOE: Surelisten , remember , Rome was n't uried in a night .
WOLFMAN: Yeah .
VOICE: Would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together ?
WOLFMAN: Are you separated ?
VOICE: Well , see , we 're havin ' a little problem .
WOLFMAN: I 'll bring you right together . Hold on a minute , man . Hi ya , hi ya , hi , hi , hi . Everything 's gon na be all ight now , man , you understand ? Now , let me play the record for you .
FALFA: Hey Hey Hey , baby , what do you say ?
LAURIE: Just do n't say anything and we 'll get along fine .
JOHN: This the first time you 've been quiet all night .
CAROL: I had fun . Goodbye .
JOHN: Yeah . I like you . You 're all right .
CAROL: But I mean , do you like me ?
JOHN: I , ah I like you . Okay ?
CAROL: Could n't I have something to remembe you by ?
JOHN: 'Bye , kid .
CAROL: Gee , thanks . It 's just like a ring or something .
JOHN: Yeah .
CAROL: It 's like we were going steady . Wait 'll I tell Marcia .
JOHN: Wait a minute , now .
CAROL: Wait 'll I tell everybody .
JOHN: Do n't go overboard with this thing .
CAROL: Well , I 'll see you around .
CURT: Hold that up .
STEVE: I 've been thinkingmaybe you 're ight . Why should I leave home to find a new home . Why should I leave friends that I love to find new friends ?
CURT: Wait a minute , wait a minute . I 've heard this already . Are n't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime ?
STEVE: I realize that . I realize
CURT: Nono realizing . You 've been telling me all summer that it 's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big , beautiful world out there . Gim me this thing .
STEVE: I do n't knowI
CURT: I feel like a mid-wife .
STEVE: I guess I was wrong . I may have been wrong .
CURT: Wrong nothing . You 've been talking about getting out of this town fo eight weeks . And nowgoddamnit ! you 're justyou 're just mentally playing with yourself . If you can just relax , we 'll talk about it at the airport .
STEVE: Where are you going ? It 's awfully early in the morning .
CURT: I have a dental appointment .
STEVE: Come on , Curt
CURT: Just relax , wil ya ? I 'll see you at the airport .
GUY: I never seen a guy lose so much . He must n't have been used to drinking .
DEBBIE: Oh no , he really likes to drink . He told me .
OLD MAN: Gettin ' late I knew a man once who got this sick . Billy Webber . That was ten years ago . What do you think that was there , that he had for dinner ?
OLD WOMAN: Staying on his hands and knees like that He looks like a dog , does n't he ? Looks like old Ginger .
OLD MAN: Sicker than a dog , that 's for sure .
TERRY: Ohh rats , I feel like Wait a second hey !
DEBBIE: Maybe we oughta call the police .
TERRY: Never get here in time . I got a bette idea . We 'll just steal it back . See if you can find some wire around . We only need a foot to hot-wire it okay ?
ATTENDANT: Took the header plugs off . Expectin ' some action ?
JOHN: Yeah . Think so . There 's some punk lookin ' for me .
ATTENDANT: Why the hell do they bother ? You 've een number one as long as I can emember .
JOHN: Yeah it 's been a long time , ai n't it ? I 'll see ya . Thanks .
TERRY: Ah , hithis is my car . What I mean is , somebody stole my carI mean I lost my car and I want to thank you two guys for
DEBBIE: Stop it , stop it , stop it ! Help ! Police ! You creeps !
TERRY: Go , John !
DEBBIE: Hit him !
JOHN: Hey , man , you all right ?
TERRY: Yeah . I 'll die soon and it 'll all be over .
DEBBIE: Wowyou 're just like the Lone Ranger .
JOHN: Yeah . Listen , are you with the Toad , or were you with them ? Terry manages to raise his head .
TERRY: You 're talking to the woman I love His head falls back again .
JOHN: What happened , man ?
STEVE: Hi , Karen , Judy .
JUDY: Hi , Steve . Have you seen Laurie lately ? Steve shakes his head no .
STEVE: Oh yeah . So what ?
JUDY: So nothing . She was just with a really cute guy in a boss car . We wondered who he was .
STEVE: I would n't know .
JUDY: We do . His name 's Bob Falfa . The name registers with Steve .
TERRY: Help I mean , I want two cherry cokes with lots of ice . Never mind , forget the cokes , just bring the ice , pronto .
STEVE: Out ! OUT !
TERRY: What ? ?
STEVE: I need the carnow .
TERRY: What 's going on ?
STEVE: I 'm about to find out .
DEBBIE: I do n't believe it ! You practically get killed trying to get your ca ack , then you let him have it .
TERRY: It 's not my car .
DEBBIE: What ?
TERRY: What ?
DEBBIE: Well , where is your car ? Terry is upset now .
DEBBIE: You don'tno car at all . What about your jeep ? Terry shakes his head .
CAR HOP: Where 's your car ? I got ta hook 'em to your car .
JOHN: What 's wrong , Toad ? You lose the ca again ?
TERRY: No Steve took it .
DEBBIE: You know , I had a pretty good time tonight .
TERRY: Oh come on , you 're just
DEBBIE: No , no , really . I really had a good time . I mean , you picked me up and we got some hard stuff and saw a hold-up , and then we went to the Canal , you got your car stolen , and then I got to watch you gettin ' sick , and then you got in this really itchin ' fight I really had a good time .
TERRY: You think so ? Yeahwell I guess I have pretty much fun every night .
DEBBIE: Anyway if you 're not doing anything tomorrow night , why do n't you come over ?
TERRY: Yeahwell , I might be busy , you know . But we couldwell , I got a little Vespa I just play around with .
DEBBIE: Really ? Why that 's almost a motorcycle . And I just love motorcycles .
TERRY: Ow .
DEBBIE: Goodnight .
TERRY: See ya .
CURT: It'sI want to talk to the Wolfman .
VOICE: The Wolfman ai n't here .
CURT: I know , but I got to get in touch with him . I got something to give him before
VOICE: We do n't take no deliveries afte eight . Come back tomorrow .
CURT: No , I ca n't . I want to ask him something that
VOICE: Dedications by phone is Diamond 75044 . Wolfman Top 40 is Box 13 , Chula Vista . Wolfman Sweatshirts is Wolf Enterprises , Bakersfield . 'Bye .
CURT: Listen , I got a right to talk to him . I listened to him every night for as longfor twelve years almost . I know him and it 's personal and it 'll only take a minute and I bet Wolfman would be upset if he knew a friend could n't get in touch with
MANAGER: What do you want ?
CURT: I 'm looking for a girl .
MANAGER: Are n't we all . She ai n't here . Come on back to the booth .
CURT: No . Thanks . Listen , ah
MANAGER: Have a popsicle .
CURT: Are you the Wolfman ?
MANAGER: No , man . I 'm not the Wolfman .
WOLFMAN: How 're you doin ' , Diane ?
DIANE: All right .
MANAGER: That 's the Wolfman .
CURT: He 's on tape . The man is on tape .
MANAGER: The Wolfman is everywhere .
CURT: But I got to give him this note .
MANAGER: Here , let me see the note . Hell , that 's just a dedication . All I got ta do is relay it . And it 'll be on the air tomorrow , or Tuesday at the latest .
CURT: No , no . See , this is very important . I may be leaving town tomorrow , and it 's very important that Idamn it , that I reach this girl right now .
MANAGER: You do n't know whether you 're gon na leave town or not ?
CURT: Well , I 'm supposed to go to college ack East tomorrow . And I do n't know if I 'm gon na go .
MANAGER: Wait a minute . Have a popsicle .
CURT: No , thank you .
MANAGER: Sit down a minute .
CURT: Why do n't you leave ?
MANAGER: Well , I 'm no kid anymore . I been here a long time . And the Wolfman well , the Wolfman gave me my start and he 's sorta become my life . I ca n't leave him now . Got ta be loyal to the Wolfman , you understand .
CURT: That 'd be great . Thanks . Really .
MANAGER: Sorry , sticky little mothers ai n't they ? Bye .
CURT: 'Bye .
TERRY: Hey , John , let me go with you . Come on .
JOHN: Naw , man . I ca n't take you when I 'm acin ' somebody .
TERRY: Ah , come on . Just let me go . So I can watch . Or , I 'll flag you , okay ?
JOHN: All right . Go ahead .
FALFA: All right now , where 's this Paradise Road ?
LAURIE: You just follow this street straight out of town Listen , if you 're gon na race John Milner , you can let me out right when we get there .
FALFA: Why do n't you shut up , baby ? You ai n't said one word all night long . What a weird broad . But you 're gon na appreciate me soon . You 're gon na be hangin ' on for mercy , when I get this sucker rollin ' .
DALE: You heading out to Paradise Road ?
STEVE: Paradise Road , I 'm not
DALE: Some guy named Falfa going up against Milner .
STEVE: John 's racing Falfa ?
DALE: Yeah . Figured something was up , saw them going out of town real cautious and then
JOHN: HeyLaurie , what in the hell are you doing in there ? Is she gon na ide with you ?
LAURIE: Mind your own business , John .
FALFA: Yeah , she 's with me . You worry about yourself , man .
TERRY: Everybody ready ?
STEVE: You stupid sonofabitch , she was in that car ! Why did you have
LAURIE: I said I didn'tyou lousy greasy jerk ! You coulda killed mewhat 's wrong with you . You clubfoot
STEVE: Laurie , please .
LAURIE: Oh , Steven ! Oh , Steven , please , do n't leave me . Do n't leave me , Steven .
STEVE: I wo n't .
LAURIE: I could n't bear it .
STEVE: I wo n't .
LAURIE: Please .
STEVE: Believe me .
JOHN: Come on , before she blows .
TERRY: Jeez , did you show him ! He 'll probably never even get in a car again .
JOHN: He was faster .
TERRY: It was beautiful , John . Just beauti what ?
JOHN: I was losin ' , man .
TERRY: What ?
JOHN: He had me , man . He was pullin ' away from me just before he crashed .
TERRY: You 're crazy .
JOHN: You saw it .
TERRY: No , you creamed him , from right off the line . The guy never had a chance .
JOHN: Shit , Toad . The man had me . He was eating me .
TERRY: John , I do n't know what you 're talking about . It was the most beautiful thing I 've ever seen . That guy , he might as well get a wheelchair and oll himself home . Man , you got you got the bitchinist car in the Valley . You 'll always be number one , John . You 're the greatest .
JOHN: Look at your glasses , man . Okay , Toad . We 'll take 'em all .
TERRY: Right .
JOHN: We 'll take em let 's get out of here .
TERRY: Jesus , what a night .
CURT: Hello , hello , hello !
VOICE: Who were you expecting ?
CURT: Do you drive a white T-Bird ?
VOICE: A white '56 . I saw you on Third Street .
CURT: You know me .
VOICE: Of course !
CURT: Who are you ? How do you know me ?
VOICE: It 's not important .
CURT: It 's important to me . You 're the most perfect , beautiful creature I 've ever seen and I do n't know anything about you . Could we meet someplace ?
VOICE: I cruise Third Street every night . Maybe I 'll see you again tonight .
CURT: No I do n't think so .
VOICE: Why ?
CURT: I 'm leaving in a couple of hours . Where are you from ?
VOICE: Curt
CURT: What 's your name ? At least tell me your name ?
VOICE: Goodbye , Curt .
CURT: Wait a second ! Wait a second !
STEVE: Good luck .
CURT: Yeah , same to you . And I better see you there next year .
STEVE: Oh yeah , I 'll be there .
CURT: Sure .
LAURIE: 'Bye 'bye , Curt . Curt goes to Terry and John .
CURT: So long , guys .
TERRY: Well , stay cool , man .
CURT: Yeah .
TERRY: Ahdo n't do anything I would n't do .
CURT: I 'll see ya , buddy .
JOHN: I know , you probably think you 're a ig shot , goin ' off like thisbut you 're still a punk .
CURT: Okay , John . So long .
THE END: < /pre
DANNY: Holy shit .
DEREK: What ?
STACEY: Fucking pervert , Dan !
DANNY: There 's a black guy outside Der eaking into your car .
DEREK: How long has he been out there ?
DANNY: Not long .
DEREK: Nobody . Relax .
STACEY: Who 's out there , Derek ?
DEREK: Not right now , honey . How many ?
DANNY: OneI think .
DEREK: Is he strapped ?
DANNY: Hunh ?
DEREK: Does he have a fucking gun , Dan ?
DANNY: I 'm not sure .
DEREK: Is there a driver ? Danny nods his head yes .
STACEY: Derek ? Be careful . He looks at his girlfriend and walks off .
DEREK: Fuck you ! The force propels the man six feet backwards .
DORIS: STAY DOWN , HONEY ! DANNY ? !
SWEENEY: Captain Rasmussen ?
DESK SERGEANT: Briefing room . Down that hallthird door on the left .
RASMUSSEN: All right . Moving on Good Morning , Doctor .
SWEENEY: Good morning .
RASMUSSEN: Gentlemen , this is Dr. Bob Sweeney . He 's Principal over at Venice High and for some time now he 's done a load of outreach work with gangsin and out of the can .
YOUNG COP: He was a skinhead , right ?
SWEENEY: Derek was more likethe skinhead . He and Cameron Alexander .
RASMUSSEN: Cammeron Alexander is probably the iggest writer and distributor of white power literature in LA County . He promotes white power bands , writes eviews , columns , all at the ripe age of forty .
YOUNG COP: He 's forty ? Jesus .
RASMUSSEN: Pretty clean recordruns everything out of his house down by the beach .
SWEENEY: There were n't any organized white gangs around Venice before those two hooked up . Very few , if any . It was mostly just black and Mexican . But it was tiny . They hit it off though and Alexander hit the jackpot with Derek .
RASMUSSEN: We got some uncut footage here . Courtesy of NBC .
REPORTER: Earlier this eveningLA County Firefighter Dennis Vinyard was shot and killed while putting out a fire in a suspected Compton drug den .
RASMUSSEN: This being February of '90 .
REPORTER: To my right I have Lieutenant Vinyard 's oldest son Derek . How do you feel about all this , son ?
DEREK: How do I feel ? How do you think I feel ? It 's typical .
REPORTER: Typical how , Derek ?
DEREK: Welllook at our country . It 's a haven for criminals . Blackbrown yellowwhatever .
REPORTER: So you 're saying the murder of you father is `` race '' related ?
DEREK: Every problem in this country is `` race '' related . Every problem , not just crime . These problems are rooted in the black community , the Hispanic community , the Asianevery non- Protestant group in our society . Look at the shit . Immigration welfareAIDSthey 're all the problems of the non-white . Look at the statistics .
REPORTER: Most of these issues you 're referring to though son are related to
DEREK: No no no ! Do n't say poverty right now cause that 's not it . They 're not a product of our fucking environment either ! Minorities do n't give two shits about this country ! They 're here to exploitnot embrace .
REPORTER: What does any of this have to do with your father ?
DEREK: Because my father was doing his fucking job ! Saving a nigge neighborhood he did n't give two shits about ! And he got killed by some drug dealer who still collects a fucking welfare check .
RASMUSSEN: Vinyard was quietly released from Chino on Saturday after three and some odd years . And I think it 's something we might want to keep an eye on for a few days .
SWEENEY: I do n't wan na be an alarmist . But payback is out there . I know it is . And in this particular caseif Vinyard gets poppedmore people will get popped .
RASMUSSEN: It 's not exactly LAPD policy but I want 24-hour surveillance on Vinyard for a few days .
COP #2: Twenty-four hour surveillance , sir ?
RASMUSSEN: Just for a few days .
ANOTHER COP: He does n't sound like Mr. Lovely here , Captain . You want us to bust him o protect him ?
SWEENEY: I do n't think Vinyard 's gon na be the one to start anything . It 's his following .
RASMUSSEN: Either waylet 's keep it low .
LIZZY: Hi Danny .
DANNY: Hey Lizzy .
LITTLE HENRY: Tellin ' Baker I 'm fuckin ' cheatin ' ? I 've never cheated in my life .
BUDDY #1: Beat his ass , Henry !
LITTLE HENRY: Why you trippin ' on me ?
DARYL: I did n't say anything , Henry . I swear .
BUDDY #2: He 's lying , man ! I was right there !
LITTLE HENRY: Next time , man .
OFFSCREEN VOICE: Vinyard ! ?
OLDER TEACHER: You 're late .
OLD TEACHER: But it looks like you got bigge problems .
DANNY: Oh , man ! Come on . Get a job . The teacher stares at him .
MURRAY: This paper is a travesty , Bob ! Arguing for Hitler as a civil rights hero ? ! You 've got ta draw a line .
SWEENEY: Murrayit says in your syllabus that they could do their report on any book elated to the struggle for Civil Rights .
MURRAY: Oh come on , Bob !
SWEENEY: Let me finish ! He needs helpI 'm not disputing that . But I read it and I 'm not going to throw him out .
MURRAY: His brother probably put him up to it .
SWEENEY: I can guarantee you his brother did n't have anything to do with it , Murray . Murray sighs and takes off his glasses .
MURRAY: Do n't let him walk scot-free here . For his sakenot mine . You might be all he has left .
DANNY: I knew it was you .
SWEENEY: What 's it gon na be , Dan ?
DANNY: What 's what going to be ?
SWEENEY: This petty shit you 're pullin ' .
DANNY: WellI do n't know .
SWEENEY: You said it , all right . Sit down .
DANNY: Yeah .
SWEENEY: Any time you wan na talk , Dan
DANNY: Okay .
SWEENEY: How 's Derek ?
DANNY: Fine .
SWEENEY: Adjusting okay ?
DANNY: Yeah .
SWEENEY: He was a student of mine . Honors English . He was a great student like youbut he hung out with scumbags . Also like you . That 's why he ended up in the pen , hunh ? No answer . Sweeney holds up Danny 's paper .
DANNY: Come on , man ! I followed directions and wrote an `` A '' paper . It 's got nothing to do with Derek .
SWEENEY: Everything you do now has something to do with Derek . Who told you to do this ?
DANNY: Let us get on with our lives , man !
SWEENEY: Hey , I 'm not worried about Derekhe can take care of himself . I 'm worried about his little brother . Mein Kampf , Dan ? I should expel you !
DANNY: Do it . What ? You do n't think I could handle it ?
SWEENEY: The street would kill you , Danny . You 're not tough . The second a other pulls a gun on your ass you 'll e holierin ' for Doris . So here 's the drill . Take it or leave it cause I 'm sick of babysitting . I 'm your history teacher from here on out . We 're gon na deal with shit happening ight now . Call it American HistoryX . I see your ass once a day . Any more , any less , and you 're a memory at Venice High . Clear ?
DANNY: It took me a week to read Mein Kampf . Come on , Sweeney .
SWEENEY: My name is Dr. Sweeney . And I want a another paper on my desk tomorrow .
DANNY: What am I doing it on then ?
SWEENEY: It 'S not a `` what '' , it 's a `` who . '' Derek .
LAWRENCE: Seven-six . Let 's go ! Set some picks !
SETH: Bring it on , boy . Derek quickly moves his eyes to the court .
LAWRENCE: Boy ?
SETH: Lucky piece of shit ! I 'm through `` monkeying '' around with your ass ! Lawrence spins around and challenges Seth .
LAWRENCE: Fat , pasty , pale , pastrami eating , cracker , motherfucker . A hundred ucks says I make you my bitch .
SETH: Here we go ! Trying to make ends meet for that cut in welfare .
DANNY: It 's eight-six , Seth .
SETH: When I want your fucking opinion I 'll ask for it , fuckhead . Help me cover here , guys .
CAMMERON: You got a big fucking mouth , fat kid .
SETH: I 'll take this negro down .
DEREK: You ca n't take a shit , Seth . Shut up .
LAWRENCE: Name your price , Cracker .
DEREK: No moneyfor the court . We win , you grab your shit and find a different place to run . Not just today forever . You win , and we do n't come ack . No hitching , no fighting , here in front of everyone . Six-eight , ou all .
LAWRENCE: You got a lot of fucking balls , man . Bring it . Right now .
SETH: Yes ! Ten a piece ! Nice fucking dish .
CAMMERON: It 's all you , Der !
LAWRENCE: Fuckin ' BYU , man ! All right ! All we need is one now !
CAMMERON: Use that fat ass and keep him out , Seth !
LAWRENCE: I ai n't losin ' in my house ! Clear it out !
CURTIS: That 's fuckin ' offense !
LAWRENCE: Get the fuck outta here ! He was movin ' his feet !
DEREK: I 'll go if you want to .
LAWRENCE: You wan na piece ! Bring it !
DEREK: If you wan na goI 'm ready . Do n't be throwin ' fuckin ' elbows .
LAWRENCE: Fuck you !
CAMMERON: Hey . Are you copacetic ? Derek nods and looks at Danny and Stacey .
DEREK: I know what he 's gon na do .
DANNY: You got ta call offense on that shit .
DEREK: Not on point game you do n't .
STACEY: Fuck that , D. That chucker ca n't pull that shit . It 's fucking-
DEREK: Not on point , honey .
DANNY: Holy shit !
SETH: Get off my fucking court ! This is my house !
DANNY: Yeah ! Fuckyeah !
KAMMI: Hey ! Danny !
DANNY: Hey .
LIZZY: You 're going tonight , right ?
DANNY: Where ?
LIZZY: That party . Go there . The two young girls giggle and take off .
CHRIS: I do n't care . I just wan na get wet .
DANNY: I 've been trying to buy this . You ca n't find it anywhere . The two look at Dan .
JASON: Cammeron dropped us off a copy . Dope fucking shit , man . It 's all about eclaiming the country . I 'll let you ead it when I 'm done .
DANNY: Fuck that . I just read Mein Kampf .
JASON: There you go .
CHRIS: Hey ? What was this Daryl shit you were talking about ?
DANNY: Henry Hastings almost kicked Daryl Dawson 's ass . He would 're too if
CHRIS: Little Henry the negroid ? Danny nods .
DANNY: Everyday there 's something over there , man .
CHRIS: Why do you think we fuckin ' quit ?
DANNY: I hear you .
JASON: Daryl Dawson 's a pussy faggot .
CHRIS: What 's ZOG again ?
JASON: Zionist somethin ' .
DANNY: Zionist-Occupational-Government .
DEREK: It 's gon na be fine .
DANNY: Oh man ! Come on ! What are you crying about now ?
DEREK: I got it . Danny looks to his mother .
DANNY: Are you feeling better at all ?
DORIS: I need a kiss .
DEREK: Unhuh . Unhuh . Did you expel him ?
DAVINA: What do you want ! ?
SETH: Open up , bitch ! Davina relents and Seth enters .
DAVINA: Jesus ! Are you sure you can fit through the door ?
SETH: Fuck off . Where is he ?
DAVINA: Back in his bedroom .
SETH: Where are you , you free motherfucker ?
DAVINA: He 's on the phone , asshole !
SETH: Fuck off .
DANNY: I 'm still trying to figure it out .
SETH: Come in here and I 'll show you , maggot .
DANNY: Fuck off . When 'd you start carryin ' ?
SETH: I 'm dropping the kids off at the pool , junior . Shut the fuckin ' door !
DANNY: Jesus ! Chew your food , dude !
DEREK: All right . Thanks . I 'll take care of it . Yeah .
DANNY: You got pigs outside .
SETH: Drop the t.v. , nigger . He laughs to himself and exits .
BLACK WOMAN: Maybe now whites will understand the motives behind people like Malcolm X and the Black Panthers . Just put the shoe on the other foot .
DANNY: { to the tv ) What about OJ , bitch ! ?
BLACK WOMAN: They 've done it to us again .
SETH: Nigger lovin ' Jew media calling the shots . Watch cartoons . It 's the only t.v . that 's safe nowadays .
DORIS: No one 's safeuntil we all are .
SETH: Come in here , Dan .
DANNY: Goin ' to Cam 's party tonight ?
SETH: Is Davina 's ass water tight ? Danny laughs .
DAVINA: Hurry up and leave , Goodyear . You 've taken your dump now go .
SETH: Listen to you . You callin ' me a limp , you fuckin ' Democrat ? !
DAVINA: Yes ! I am ! Danny takes a bite and laughs at Seth .
DANNY: I 'm there tonight .
SETH: Oh yeah ? You ask Derek ?
DANNY: Noobut he 's got two kegs .
SETH: Wellyou can think of me drinkin ' 'em then when you 're studying with fuckin ' White Trash in there . Davina scoffs and Seth looks up her shirt .
DAVINA: You 're not even human . Seth erupts with laughter .
DANNY: Is Cam playing sticks ?
SETH: Of course , man .
DANNY: I got homework , Seth .
SETH: Two fucking seconds , dude ! Danny sits and looks at Seth .
DANNY: Fuck off .
SETH: Tell me some of the shit you 've learned luckbrain or I 'll pistol-whip you .
DANNY: About Adolf ?
SETH: About anything . What do you believe in ? Danny thinks to himself and smiles .
DANNY: I believe in filth and destruction and chaos and death and greed .
SETH: What else ?
DANNY: I believe in my family .
SETH: Why ?
DANNY: `` Respect your father and your mother . Whoever curses your mother and father is to be put to death . '' Matthew 15-4 .
SETH: Good . What else ? Tell me what I want to hear , asshole .
DANNY: You mean that stuff about your mother ? Davina CACKLES in the background .
SETH: You wan na get beaten ?
DANNY: No .
SETH: Then tell me about Adolf and Mein .
DAVINA: Hey Seth ? Cut the shit .
SETH: I 'm not fuckin ' talkin ' to you , Davina , shut up ! Do you believe in Adolf ?
DANNY: Yeah , man . I believe in Adolf .
SETH: What do you hate , Danny ?
DANNY: I hate everyone that is n't white Protestant .
SETH: Why ? And say it with some fucking conviction !
DANNY: Because they 're a burden to the advancement of the white race . Some of them are all right
SETH: None of them are all right , Danny . They 're all a bunch of fucking freeloaders . Remermber Canuneron . `` We do n't know them , we do n't want to know them , they 're the fucking enemy . '' What do n't you like about them ?
DANNY: I do n't know . I feel threatened by them .
DAVINA: They feel threatened by you !
SETH: What else , Danny ? And speak intelligently you little queer faggot .
DANNY: I hate the fact that it 's cool to be lack these days .
SETH: Good .
DANNY: I hate this hip hop influence on white fuckin ' suburbia .
DANNY: I hate Hilary Clinton and all of he Zionist MTV pigs telling us we should get along . Save the rhetorical ullshit honey , it ai n't gon na happen .
SETH: That 's the best shit I 've ever heard come out of that mouth .
DAVINA: I feel.sorry for you , Danny .
SETH: Shut up , Davina .
DAVINA: You shut up , you poison to fuckin ' society ! Get out of our house !
SETH: Is this any way to treat a guest ?
DAVINA: Derek hates you , Seth .
SETH: Hey ! How are you , man ? Fuckin ' A . Long time no see . Look at that hair .
DEREK: Gim me just one second , okay ? Seth nods as Derek stares at Danny .
DANNY: What 's it to you ?
DEREK: What 's it to me ?
DANNY: I meanhow 'd you find out ?
DEREK: None of your fucking business how I found out .
SETH: I thought it was a great idea .
DEREK: That figures . You 're more stupid than he is .
SETH: It 's nice to see you too , man .
DEREK: Why 'd you do it , Dan ? Because of Seth .
DANNY: No .
DEREK: Cammeron ?
DANNY: I did it cause I felt like it .
DEREK: Oh , you do everything you feel like ? I feel like smacking you in the fucking head . Would you mind if I did a report on that ?
DANNY: Uhhhyeah .
DEREK: Get a clue , you dumbshit . Hey ! Look at me ! Do n't be a dickhead . Sweeney cares about you .
SETH: Sweeney does ? Since when ?
DANNY: Was that him on the phone ?
DEREK: Yep . So wise up . You hear me ?
SETH: Sweeney 's a fuckin ' nigger on a powe trip , Vinyard . That 's what he was like when we were there and that 's how he is now . It 'll never change either . A nigger is a nigger .
DORIS: Just put me out of my mercy .
DEREK: You 'll be okay . You want me to pick you up any more medicine ?
DORIS: It 's not that uncomfortable .
DANNY: Are you gon na to live or what , Mom ?
DORIS: I need a cigarette .
DEREK: My ass . You smoke two packs a day . That 's why you 're spittin ' phlegm .
SETH: Jesus , Mrs. Vinyard . I think a lung just came up .
DORIS: I 'm high as a kite .
DANNY: You got any more ?
DORIS: Daniel ? I know you got homework .
DANNY: I 'm goin ' in a second . Relax .
SETH: Hey . I 'm gon na re-wipe and we 're out of here . Seth laughs as he walks down the hall .
DAVINA: You 're a pig .
DORIS: I do n't like him in this house .
DEREK: I knew .
DAVINA: He ' s a fuckin ' loser , Nazi scumbag .
DANNY: No he 's not .
DEREK: Yes he is . Open your eyes . Danny looks at Derek and smiles .
DANNY: Whatever , dude . I 'm gon na go powe that shit and I 'll see you later .
DEREK: Not at Cammeron 's you wo n't see me .
DANNY: Come on , Der ! It 's gon na be fuckin '
DEREK: Forget it , Danny ! It ai n't gon na happen for you tonight .
SETH: Hurry up . I 'm starving .
DAVINA: What else is new ?
DEREK: I 'll see ya .
DORIS: Okay . Be careful .
DANNY: This sucks . He walks back out of his bedroom .
DAVINA: Hey what ?
DANNY: Come here .
DANNY: Come here for a second !
DAVINA: I got shit to do , Dan .
DANNY: Just read it . She sighs and begins to read it out loud .
DAVINA: `` American History X ? Take home pape as assigned by Principal Robert Sweeney ? '' Why is he giving you homework ? What happened to Murray ?
DANNY: Asshole turned me in .
DAVINA: Why ?
DANNY: Just read .
DAVINA: `` Describe in detail your opinion of -the historical event that took place in the early morning of October 4th , 1993 . '' What 's that ?
DANNY: The night Derek wasted those guys . Davina takes a moment .
DAVINA: Sweeney gave you this ?
DAVINA: `` Before and afterhow has this event helped or hurt your present perspective concerning life in contemporary America . Use the standard five paragraph format , bla lab blahthis 'll be good for you..
DANNY: Noooit 'll be good for you . She stares at him for a good three seconds .
DAVINA: Eat me , Dan .
DANNY: Come on ! Dick Nixon 's playin ' at Cammeron 's tonight . You owe me .
DAVINA: I 'm not doing your homework for you ! I got ta spreadsheet due !
DANNY: Goddammit !
DAVINA: What 's the matter with you ? You wan na e a fuckin ' loser your whole life ?
DANNY: Asshole Sweeney .
STACEY: I hope you kill that fucker .
CAMMERON: He might have a gun .
DEREK: Are you going in or not ?
CAMMERON: You know I got the cops on me . If I come up on one of those cameras I 'm a dead man .
DEREK: All right . You can turn it off now . You 're right on his tail , right ?
STACEY: I hate that fucking Korean . I hope you smash his face in .
DEREK: Just be ready , okay ?
CURTIS: No .
DEREK: Pull your fucking stupid head out of your ass then .
CURTIS: Okay . Jesus .
DEREK: We 're here tonight cause we got immigration problems spiralling out of control . We got Asians up the ass taking over our land with thei fucking Yen . Mexicansflocking into this place like some giant fucking Pinata was shattered .
ET AL: Fuck yeah it is .
DEREK: Are you ready to do something about it ?
ET AL: Yeah .
DEREK: Okay then .
SETH: Wheto 's your fucking green card , asshole ?
DEREK: Ca n't hide from me , motherfucker !
MURRAY: No . You guys make bombs .
DEREK: You 're so fucking lame . A couple of cranks in cabins in Montana is not statistically significant . White Americans do n't take PCP and drink and drive a hundred and twenty fuckin ' miles an hour ! We pull ove and trust the law .
MURRAY: You 're kidding , right ?
DAVINA: Do n't you know , Murray ? White people never break the law . We 're perfect little angels .
DEREK: That 's not what I said , Davina . Three different times Rodney King comes at those officers with the intent to hurt them . To hurt them ! Three times ! But since we see it on some fucking tampered videotapethe leeding heart media makes you believe that he only comes at them once . All we see is Powell , Koon and Wind hittin ' him and Briseno kickin ' him in the back of the fuckin ' skull with his boot . Still , the dumbfuck 's tryin ' to get up and kick their asses ! That 's how stupid that motherfucker is . Those cops used textbook-solid tactics and if Dad were still here he 'd say the same damn thing .
DORIS: That does n't make it right .
DEREK: Yes it does . Yes it does . They 're cops ! They are taught to use that stick and they did .
MURRAY: Excessively .
DEREK: No . Appropriately . Appropriately ! Cops have been granted a certain amount of authority by society and white people , unfortunately , are the only ones who acknowledge it . I acknowledge a cop 's authority . Davina starts to laugh .
DAVINA: Look who 's talking about respecting the law ? Mr. K.K.K . here .
DEREK: That 's two errors in one sentence , Davina , so take a fucking course in semantics . First errorI did n't say I respect the law . I said I respect a cop 's authority . Second errorI 'm not a member of the fuckin ' low rent , disorganized , redneck Ku Klux Klan.. Pull your head outta your ass and look at who you 're dealing with .
MURRAY: Do n't speak to her that way , Derek .
DEREK: Murray , stay out of it . You 're not a member of this family and you neve will be .
MURRAY: What the hell does that have to do with anything ?
DORIS: You knowsometimes it 's hard to elieve I gave birth to you .
DEREK: Give thanks to the food on the table and then believe it , Doris .
DORIS: We both put food on this table , fella .
DEREK: True enough . The point isif Dan was walking across the street that night and Rodney King plowed into him
DORIS: Can we forget about Rodney King fo chrissake ? !
DEREK: while hopped up on Chivas and P.C.Pyou 'd consider the force those cops used to be justified !
DORIS: He did n't hit anybody !
DEREK: If he did though ! If that shithead killed Danyou would have believed the beating to be justified and so would everybody else . But since he did n't hit anyoneit 's `` Hands Across America '' for the son of a bitch . Derek takes a bite of food .
STACEY: I 'm with you , honey . All the way . It 's onegiantploy .
DAVINA: Here we go .
STACEY: I meannobody likes Chief whateve his name is , right ?
DAVINA: Gates .
STACEY: Yeah . So here comes this filthy piece of garbage in his Hyundai . He pulls over in front of a perfectly lighted area where a video camera is sitting therefucking waiting for him , man . What happens next ? Chief Gates is dust . It 's total
DAVINA: May I be excused please ?
DEREK: Do n't interrupt , Davina .
DAVINA: I did n't interrupt shit .
DEREK: The hell you did n't . I was listening to Stacey and then I heard you . That 's called interrupting . Wait 'til she 's finished and you can be excused .
DAVINA: Who the hell do you think you are ?
DEREK: You do n't know when to shut up .
DORIS: Dammit Derek !
MURRAY: What are you trying to prove , man ? ! Derek turns and laughs at Murray .
DEREK: I 'm trying to teach my sister some espect , Murray .
DAVI NA: Let go of my fucking hair !
DEREK: See ! See the way she speaks ! Tell me you 're gon na shut up and I 'll let go .
DORIS: Derek ! Let go of her hair and sit down !
DEREK: I will when I hear an answer , Doris . Are you going to shut up , Davina ?
DEREK: What are you thinkin ' ?
DORIS: Danny ? ! Are you okay ? !
DEREK: It 's a real easy question , Davina . A simple yes or no will suffice . Tell me what I want to hear and I 'll let go .
DAVINA: Fuckyou .
MURRAY: She ca n't breathe , Derek !
DEREK: Stay back , both of you ! It 's her bed , she 's got ta lie in it . You can cry all you want , Davina . I 'm not gon na let go until you tell me what I wan na hear ! Are you going to shut that fat fucking mouth of your 's and let my girlfriend tell he opinion ? Are you ? !
DORIS: Let go of her hair and get out .
DEREK: You okay ? Danny nods .
MURRAY: Psycho .
DEREK: Would you care to repeat that , Murray ? I 'm not sure I got all of it .
STACEY: He called you a `` psycho '' , honey .
DEREK: Was that it ? Thanks Murray .
MURRAY: See . Here we go again with this , Derek . Making me out to be the bad guy again .
STACEY: You callin ' me a liar , RosenKike ?
MURRAY: Hey goddammit ! You talk to me with espect or !
DEREK: Or what , Murray ! ? What 're you gon na do ? Give her fucking detention ?
DORIS: Both of you get out right now .
DEREK: Out of respect for my motherI 'm gon na let that comment go , Murray . I wo n't bash your face in . But let me tell you somethin'man to fuckin ' mouse here . Normally in a situation like this I 'd take my steel-tips to your fucking Jewish temple . That goes for anyone making comments about me , my family , Stacey , whomever . You know and I know that I could crush that puny fuckin ' skull of yours in a second . So it 's beyond me why you would say something like that without eing able to back it up ? What 's worse , you sack of shit , is you calling the woman I love a liar .
MURRAY: I never said she was a liar .
DEREK: Weasel like that again Murrayyou fuckin ' ponytail , pussy , bagel eating , teacher , faggotand I 'll cut you shylock nose off . Make no mistake .
STACEY: Murray RosenbergInternational Jew .
DORIS: He 's a stupid kid , Murray ! I 'm sorry !
MURRAY: He 's not a kid , Doris . We were kids . We did n't call people kikes .
DORIS: It 's just gon na take some time with him . What can I do ?
MURRAY: You do n't know your children , Doris ! You have no clue about the world they live in . Your son is a terrorist .
DORIS: He 's not a terrorist , Murray . Jesus !
MURRAY: He 's a member of the Disciples of Christ . You remember that grocery store incident ? !
MURRAY: My sister and her two kids got evacuated from her Temple in Woodland Hills !
DORIS: Murray ! Please ! Derek would neve have anything to do with bombs , okay ? ! You do n't know him like I do .
MURRAY: And I would n't want to . Goodbye . Murray gets inside and goes down the street .
DAVINA: Take this , you fucking dick !
DEREK: Davina ! It 's okay ! Calm down . Please .
DAVINA: Fuck you ! Let go !
DEREK: I 'm sorry , Davina . Come on .
DAVINA: Let go of me !
DEREK: Come on , Davina . I 'm sorry . I lost control . Please . I screwed up .
DAVINA: I do n't believe you anymore .
DEREK: I swear to God I would , Davina . Please .
DANNY: I believe you , Der . Derek smiles at his little brother , lovingly .
DEREK: Davina ? Please forgive me . Please . I 'm sorry .
DAVINA: That fuckin ' sucked , Derek .
DEREK: I know it did . And I 'm sorry . I just really hate that guy .
DAVINA: You could n't tell .
DORIS: Find an apartment because I want you out of here .
DEREK: Morn , I 'm sorry but that guy 's
DORIS: I do n't wan na hear it anymore ! I want you out !
STACEY: He can move in with me .
DORIS: When ?
STACEY: Tomorrow .
DORIS: Good .
DANNY: Here .
DORIS: Thank you , honey .
DANNY: I 've got this thing to do .
DORIS: You can sit down for two seconds . He looks at her and sits beside her .
DANNY: Do n't breathe on me .
DORIS: I wo n't . They share a smile .
DANNY: It 's cold in here , no wonder you sick .
DORIS: What ? I 'm not allowed to look at you anymore ? He smothers her face with his hand , jokingly .
DANNY: No . You 're not .
DORIS: Daniel Patrick ! Stop it ! Are you ever gon na let that beautiful hai grow back ?
DANNY: Nope . Never .
DORIS: I bet you will .
DANNY: Get some sleep .
DORIS: If you need me to proof anything fo you I will .
DANNY: I 'll be all right .
DORIS: Wake up early if you get tired .
DEREK: You fucked with the wrong bull .
LAWRENCE: Goddamn , man !
DANNY: Let the cops handle it , Der !
DEREK: Fuck that . The cops will let him walk .
DANNY: Derek ! ?
DEREK: Get in the fucking house , Dan ! Danny does n't move .
LAWRENCE: Come on , man . Call an ambulance .
DEREK: My dad gave me that truck , motherfucker . Could n't leave well enough alone . Put your mouth on the corner of the fucking curb !
DANNY: The cops are comin ' Der '
DEREK: What the fuck did you say ? You just threaten me ? Hunh ? Hunh ? Hunh ?
DANNY: No !
JASON: We 're here , dude .
CHRIS: Drop your dick and grab your stick .
DANNY: I told you I ca n't tonight .
CHRIS: Just tell 'em you 'll do it tomorrow . You ca n't miss the party .
JASON: Fire pie Lizzy called and told us to grab your ass .
DANNY: She did ?
CHRIS: You got ta hit that shit . It 's the only fun thing that 's legal anymore . The PHONE RINGS and Danny grabs it .
DANNY: Hello ?
SWEENEY: Dan ?
DANNY: What 's going on ?
SWEENEY: Nothing here . Is everything all right over there ?
DANNY: Everything 's fine .
SWEENEY: How 's it comin ' ?
DANNY: I 'm doing it right now .
CMRIS: Who is it , dude ?
DANNY: It 's Sweeney .
CHRIS: Who ? ! Why is he calling here ! ? Fuck you , Sweeney ! Asshole !
JASON: Get a fucking job , you reggie !
DANNY: You fuckers are going to get me ooted ! Dr. Sweeney ? I 'm sorry , man .
SWEENEY: Just make sure it 's on my desk tomorrow , Danny .
DANNY: It 'll be there , alright ! ?
SWEENEY: It better be .
DANNY: Let 's go .
SETH: You 're an idiot if you ask me .
DEREK: I 'm not asking you .
SETH: What if he writes something stupid and that nigger turns you in ? Jesus . He did n't testify , Der . They can use that shit and re-try you .
DEREK: Sweeney 's not gon na do anything , Seth . He helped get me released .
SETH: You 're serious .
DEREK: I 'm dead fucking serious . No more phone calls , no more visits , no more nothing . Seth does n't know what to say .
SETH: I ca n't believe I 'm hearing this shit come out of your mouth .
DEREK: Believe it , Seth . Believe it . I spent over three years away from my family . My family , Seth . For what ?
SETH: For your country , fuckhole , that 's what . I 'd do a hundred years before I felt like that .
DEREK: What the ? Shit .
CASSANDRA: You 're full of shit !
JASON: If he ai n't here , he 's comin ' .
CHRIS: Yo ! What 's up , Fat Seth ! ? Seth throws Chris against the wall .
SETH: I 'm not fat , cockwart ! I 'm husky !
CMRIS: Okay ! I 'm sorry , bro !
DANNY: Take it easy , dude !
DEREK: Your brother 's a piece of shit !
CHRIS: Holy shit . Father Vinyard ! ?
JASON: Son of a bitch . Derek looks at the two kids .
CHRIS: You 're a fuckin ' god , man !
DEREK: Do me a favor . Grab Danny and get outta here ! The two boys look at each other and LAUGH .
CHRIS: We just got here , man !
DEREK: You what ! ? Chris looks at Derek like he 's dead .
JASON: School does n't exist anymore , Father .
CHRIS: I wrote you . Two letters while you were in there ! Did you get them ? !
CASSANDRA: Excuse fuckin ' me !
DEREK: Cassandra .
CASSANDRA: Oh my God ! They said you might be here but I did n't fucking believe 'em !
CURTIS: I hope what I heard ai n't true , man . You better hightail it the fuck outta here if it is .
CASSANDRA: You got ta chop that mop , Der ! Cassandra lights a brown menthol cigarette .
DEREK: The only person I 've seen is Seth .
CASSANDRA: Oh God . I 'm sorry .
LIZZY: Can you tell Danny that Lizzy 's looking for him ? Derek can only stare at the girl 's youth .
CAMMERON: He wo n't do anything'drastic I hope .
DANNY: I got ta do that paper though .
CAMMERON: I thought you already turned that fucker in ?
DANNY: My teacher cried to Sweeney , man . have to do another one . Cammeron laughs .
CAMMERON: Oh man . Fucking Sweeney .
STACEY: Meanwhile , niggers and spics do thei eports on Malcolm X and fucking Fidel Castro .
CAMMERON: Sweeney 's got an agenda , Danny . And it 's all a load of crap . You hear me ? He 's all about brainwashing . Do n't get fucking fooled by it .
DEREK: What did I tell you , Dan ?
DANNY: I had to check it out , Der . Come on .
CAMMERON: He 'll be all right , Derek .
DEREK: There 's a redhead out there looking for you . Go talk to her .
CAMMERON: You go with .
STACEY: Welcome back .
CAMMERON: You made it , man . When I heard they threw you in General Population I thought it was curtains .
DEREK: It was n't too bad .
CAMMERON: So what 's all this self-righteous , orn-again shit I 'm hearing then ?
DEREK: I agree .
CAMMERON: Who runs the place ? The monkeys o the wetbacks ?
DEREK: The Mexicans .
CAMMERON: It 's a fuckin ' vacation for them in there , hunh ?
DEREK: They were really organized . I 'll tell yait was impressive . They
LIZZY: I like you .
DANNY: I like you , too .
CAMMERON: They 're fuckin ' peasants , Derek . All of them . So what 's up , man ? I 'm hearing a lot of shit about you .
DEREK: Be careful with me , Cam . You do n't know what 's going on with me .
CAMMERON: Fuckin ' talk to me then . We 're family here . Let 's work it out whatever it is .
DEREK: I 'm family , Cam ? Is that why you came to see me all the time up there ? Cameron smiles but does n't know what to say .
CAMMERON: I had to distance myself from you after that .
DEREK: Fuck you , Cameron . You 're a fucking chicken hawkpraying on kids .
CAMMERON: I do n't pray on fucking anyone .
DEREK: No . You fucking use them . To filte your insanity . Cameron smiles in disbelief .
CAMMERON: You and Danny are like brothers to me , Derek . Come on , man .
DEREK: He 's not your brother , Cameron . All ight ? He 's my brother . You hear me , Cam ?
CAMMERON: Fuck you , Derek ! Fuck you ! Do n't think you can threaten me with this shit for a fuckin ' second ! I 'm more important to him now then you eve were .
DEREK: You gon na listen ? !
CAMMERON: I 'm gon na fuckin ' kill you .
DEREK: Shut the fuck up ! You 're gon na stay away ! That 's what you 're gon na do !
RANDOM SKIN: Hey Derek ! ?
DEREK: What ? !
CASSANDRA: Jesus , Der . What happened ?
CURTIS: Where 's Cammeron , man ? !
DEREK: I have n't seen him .
STACEY: Do n't point your fucking finger at me .
DEREK: I 'm serious , Stacey ! Stay away ! She grabs and pulls on his shirt .
STACEY: What are you gon na do ? ! Hunh ? ! Hit me ? ! Kick me as I roll on the fuckin ' ground screaming ? ! That bullshit with Cammeron is nothing , Derek !
DEREK: I do n't care .
STACEY: Goddamn you , Derek ! Those two niggers deserved what they got . They deserved to die ! And just like Cameron and Seth and a million others out thereI 'll believe that 'til the day I fucking die . I will . Nothing will ever change that either . Derek breaks from her grasp and walks away .
ET AL: Forty-five ! Forty-six ! Forty- seven !
SETH: Why the fuck did you pump it ? ! I coulda gone for a minute at least !
DEREK: Let him go , Seth .
SETH: Where 's Cameron ? Derek stares directly into the BARREL .
DANNY: Seth , man ! ? Come on !
SETH: I 'd be doing America a great fucking favor , let me tell you .
STACEY: Do it , Seth .
CASSANDRA: You got fuckin ' guests out there , Cam .
DEREK: Come with me right now .
DANNY: Fucking asshole !
DEREK: What the luck are you thinking ! ?
DANNY: What are you thinking ! ? Friends do n't fight friends , Der ! They stick together !
DEREK: They 're not friends , Dan !
DANNY: What the hell are they then ? !
DEREK: Just sit there and relax for a second .
DANNY: I do n't wan na relax ! You looked like an idiot back there !
YOUNG MAN: You got lucky , man . I was in the kitchen for a year before making it in here . Pots and motherfucking pans disgusting beef stroganoff shit oiling hot waterfuck that ! My name 's Lamont , man .
LAMONT: I got your back . Righteous white Cracker with attitude . Just like the Judge who sentenced me , man . Lamont laughs but then becomes serious .
STEVIE: I was just talking about you . You 're Cammeron 's boy ? Derek turns and stares at him .
DEREK: His boy ? No , I do n't think so , man . I 'm not anybody 's boy .
STEVIE: Wellyou know what I mean .
DEREK: Nooo , I do n't know what you mean .
STEVIE: Here , man . Relax and have a hit . Derek stares at him .
DEREK: Nooohow about you getting that fucking shit awax from me ?
STEVIE: You got a problem , man ?
DEREK: Excuse me ? Do I have a problem ? No , I do n't have a problem . Do you have a problem ?
STEVIE: No . I do n't .
DEREK: Who the fuck are you ?
LAMONT: But I wo n't go down on that shit . No way , no how . You ever been with a soul sister ? Derek looks over and meets his eyes . Lamont sees this and laughs . Just for a second .
DEREK: And you do n't ! ? Shut up .
LAMONT: Manyou do n't know shit about the others . We wo n't go down on that shit if the bitch was holding a gun to our fucking head .
STEVIE: How 's your face , man ?
DEREK: I 'm right here , man . You wan na have it out with me , let 's go . Just me and you though .
STEVIE: Manyou are a stupid motherfucker . You know that ? When are you ?
DEREK: Stupid ? ! You have anything else to say , you little pussy ! Hunh ? !
STEVIE: Fuck you !
HUGE ARYAN: Well well well . A virgin .
LAMONT: Motherfucker . What now , man ?
DOCTOR: Well , you do have some tearing down here . Christ . Okay . I 'm gon na have to stitch you up so I 'll be back .
SWEENEY: Honor and loyalty run thick , Derek . Not skin color . Skin is thin . I do n't get you , man . I do n't . I got my Doctorate in Educationnot in medicine . But if you think babies come into this world evilyou 're fucked up , Derek . You 're way to smart to believe that shit . There 's nothin ' more beautiful Derek , nothin ' more pure , nothin ' more innocentthan a baby .
DEREK: They killed my father , Sweeney .
SWEENEY: Jesus Derek . Use that brain God gave you for chrissake . What are you gon na do ? Seek revenge your whole life and ecome a lifer in here . That 's what these guys are like , you wan na be like them ? Fucking little boys in prison ? Think , man . None of your guys back home give a shit about you . They only care about your brother . The new blood . And he sure as hell ca n't take care of himself like you could . Derek looks at the man with regret .
DEREK: Get me outta here , Sweeney .
VOICE: How you doin ' , man ?
DEREK: All right . How are you ?
LAMONT: I 'm fucking incarcerated , man . With a unch of faggots . How you think I 'm doin ' ?
DEREK: I 'm not going to do anything .
DEREK: How are the others ?
DORIS: Davina 's good . UCLA Math major . All three of you have always been so great in school . I wonder why all this
DEREK: What about Dan , Mom ? How 's he ?
DORIS: He 's doing the same stuff you were doing , Derek . Hanging out with Cammeron , getting into trouble . It ings back a lot of sad memories . And I ca n't do anythinghe wo n't listen to me . He needs you .
DEREK: You 're my best friend , Danny . You 're my only friend . And I just want what 's best for you .
COP #1: How the hell ?
COP #2: Son of a bitch .
DEREK: Pretty shitty assignment you got .
COP #1: Out of respect for your father .
DEREK: Oh yeah ? What the hell do you know- about my father ?
DEREK: Time for bed .
DORIS: Goodnight .
DEREK: Goodnight , Mom .
DORIS: Breakfast !
DENNIS: Okay ! Let 's go , Davina ! Derek !
DORIS: So what 's this all about , Dennis ?
DENNIS: Good morning .
DEREK: Good morning .
DORIS: What about this gang stuff ?
DENNIS: Jesus Dorisit 's not that big of a deal . All departments have to take a precaution class on gang patrol today .
DEREK: What for ?
DENNIS: A guy was shot yesterday in Inglewoodchangin ' a valve on a hydrant . LAPD is worried that more firefighters will become targets . That 's what this bullshit is about . A good father this guy was though and now he 's in intensive care because of some goddamn ! They 've pretty much declared war on LAPD and us .
DORIS: Why you guys though ? I can see them ut the fire department ?
DENNIS: They think we would rather let a uilding burn down over there than fight it . So now we got two fights goin ' on at one goddamn time . Dennis takes a bite of his eggs and explodes .
DANNY: Do n't we have to have `` affirmative action ? ''
DENNIS: Not when a job requires ability . No .
DORIS: A lot of people say otherwise , Danny . Including me .
DENNIS: A lot of people do n't know shit , either .
DORIS: Nooowhat you do n't see are minorities on the boards of Fortune 500 companies cause whites wo n't stand for it .
DENNIS: Doris ! I 'm tired of your damn argument ! You sound like an idiot !
DEREK: Sweeney actually had a pretty good take on affirmative action the othe day .
DENNIS: Really ? I did n't know you spoke `` African '' , Derek ? Where 'd you learn that shit ? Johannesberg ?
DORIS: Honey ? Please do n't speak that way . They do n't
DENNIS: How am I speaking , Doris ! ? Hunh ? ! I 'm speakin ' fineP Hey . Do n't let that him confuse you over there , Derek . Look at me . This shit he 's pulling is a load of crap . Hey . Look at me , Derek . I mean it . If we keep givin ' niggers everything , there 'll be nothing left for us .
DORIS: You can be a stupid son of a bitch sometimes .
DENNIS: And then we have naive fools like her .
DORIS: I really hate you with a passion some times .
DENNIS: You know what I mean though , right ?
DEREK: Yeah .
DAVINA: Good morning . She sits . Her lips glare excessively this morning .
DENNIS: Wellgood morning , Miss Monroe ! Look at you . You look like a star .
DEREK: I like that color , Davina .
DAVINA: Thanks
DENNIS: You did like it .
DAVINA: Come on , Dad .
DENNIS: Yeah . Well you 're lucky I 'm letting you wear that crap on your eyes . I love you but you 're too young .
DAVINA: That sucks , man .
DENNIS: It totally sucks . And we all sympathize with you , too .
DANNY: Coach 's sick .
DENNIS: You wan na go to Der 's game with me ?
DENNIS: ( quickly to Derek } Santa Monica High tonight , right ?
DENNIS: Perfect . Ben 'll whip us up a couple of double deckers and we 'll head over .
DANNY: Okay .
HOMELESS MAN: Spare change for a cheeseburger ?
SETH: Get a job and buy one why do n't you .
HOMELESS MAN: God bless you .
SETH: Fuck you .
HOMELESS MAN: Fifty cents is all I ask . Vietnam , man . I was in
CAMMERON: Really ? So you 've had what ? Thirty years to get your shit together ?
HOMELESS MAN: All I want is something to eat .
CAMMERON: There are plenty of fuckin ' dishwashing jobs out there , Vietnam oy . Go get yourself one .
HOMELESS MAN: Did I do something ?
CAMMERON: You 're a disgrace to the white race . If Adolf Hitler was aliveGod bless his soulhe would have you shot .
HOMELESS MAN: Fuck you then . Now and forever . Fuck you .
CAMMERON: Noooo . Fuck you .
SETH: Seriously ?
CAMMERON: I do n't know . I think so .
SETH: Where 's Stacey ?
CAMMERON: Who gives a fuck ? Seth takes a bite and chews .
SETH: Derek 's a fuckin ' traitor pussy .
CAMMERON: Wellwe might be pussies too if we got treated the way he did .
SETH: What do you mean ?
CAMMERON: Stevie McCormick calledold school Venice bro . He 's at Chinodoin ' life . He hated Derek . Said he was a fucking blow-up doll in there .
SETH: Fucking A .
CAMMERON: Oh Christ . You got ta be kidding me ?
CAMMERON: Is there anything sacred in this country anymore ? Jesus Christ . Hey . Stop feeding your face for a second and look behind you .
BLACK MAN: No questions .
CAMMERON: I recommend either the `` Big Ben Burger '' or the `` Chicken Taco Special . '' Ben 'll replace the dark meat with the white meat if you ask nicely .
BLACK MAN: What 's your problem , pal ?
CAMMERON: I ai n't your fucking pal first of all . SecondlyI do n't have problems . People who luck with me have problems .
WHITE GIRL: Come on . Let 's get out of here .
CAMMERON: Hey ! What a great idea ! You got a clever little whatever it is there . I 'd listen to it if I were you .
BLACK MAN: You 're not me .
CAMHERON: And I thank God Almighty every day fo that , believe me .
SETH: Excuse me ? Tyrone ?
BLACK MAN: My name 's not Tyrone either .
SETH: Whatever . Why ca n't you stick to you own race ?
WHITE GIRL: Jesus Christ ! Where do you assholes come from ? !
CAMMERON: What the luck difference does it make where we come from , bitch ? I 'm from a place called America . A place that used to be a nice place to live before it became fuckin ' Africa-America .
BLACK MAN: You ignorant mother
SETH: You got a fuckin ' death wish , asshole ? Do you ? Make your move now if you do . If you don'tget the luck out of my sight . Cause I 'm real close to shoving my piece up your girlfriend 's stinky pussy .
CAMMERON: Everything 's hunky dory , Ben ! No problemo . Only us white folk .
DEREK: Did you `` save '' it ?
CAMMERON: It would n't irritate me so much if the atio was a little more even .
SETH: What 's that ?
CAMMERON: Ebony and Ivory back there ! Almost all of those orange kid relationships are black man and white women and I 'm fucking sick of seein ' it ! I would n't mind so much if it were more even .
SETH: Huge dicks , Cam . That 's all it is .
CAMMERON: I used to think that too butit 's got ta be more , man . It has to be more than the fact they they carry a big load . Chicks are n't that shallow , are they ? It 's politically correct that 's what it is . White womenbein ' seen with the coloredsit 's great for their image . Bitches today want to be known as ein ' fuckin ' color blind .
SETH: They get off on it .
CAMMERON: And you ca n't really blame Tyrone .
SETH: Why the fuck not ?
CAMMERON: Wellhow 'd you like to drag around some fat fly girl ? I would n't .
SETH: No shit . Oh go girlfriend ! Do n't be puttin ' up wid dat , girl ! Oh stop girl !
LITTLE HENRY: You gon na waste 'em ?
JEROME: Only if we have to .
DANNY: I 'm printing it up and we 're out of here .
DEREK: Hurry up . Derek walks out into the living room .
DORIS: Wow . What happened ?
DEREK: I got ta see my parole officer .
DAVINA: Hey Der ? Do you have Excel on disk ?
DEREK: I 've got everything on disk .
DORIS: You look good . Derek smiles and caresses his mother 's cheek .
DEREK: We 're getting out of here soon . Is that okay with you ?
DORIS: I 'd love it . Do you think I should color my hair ?
DORIS: I 'm glad you made it back . I was n't too sure I was going to see you again . You know how I get . Filled with regret , he nods .
DEREK: You think you 'll be able to forgive me ? Someday maybe ?
DORIS: You 're my son . Of course I will .
DEREK: Look at me . I 'm such a pussy .
DORIS: No you 're not .
DEREK: What do you want ?
DANNY: Maple bar and alarge milk .
DEREK: You look pretty . She laughs .
TISHA: Thank you .
DEREK: How do I look ?
BLACK GIRL: Fine .
DEREK: What 's your name ?
DEREK: How old are you , Tisha ? She holds up four fingers . Derek smiles .
BLACK MOTHER: Come here , Tisha .
DEREK: What 's goin ' on ?
SWEENEY: We need to talk , Derek .
DEREK: How 'd you find out I was here ?
SWEENEY: We were just at your apartment .
RASMUSSEN: Cammeron and Seth are in the ICU at St. Johns , Derek . They were jumped in front of Ben 's Burgets early this morning .
DEREK: How bad ?
RASMUSSEN: They 'll live . They must have been looking fo somebody else . Derek stares at Rasmussen and walks away . Sweeney , who knows to walk over to him . He eyes
SWEENEY: Are they coming after you ?
DEREK: Fuckin ' A. Sweeney sighs .
SWEENEY: I do n't know . You might have to talk to your old crew though .
DEREK: I ca n't , Sweeney .
SWEENEY: Try , Derek . Okay ? Derek senses the danger in his voice .
DEREK: Hey . Keep your head up , alright ? I 'm going to take care of this .
DANNY: How ?
DEREK: I do n't know . I 'll figure it out though . You gon na be okay ?
DANNY: Yeah .
DEREK: Hey .
DANNY: What ?
DEREK: Come here .
COP #1: You need a lift anywhere ?
DEREK: Nope .
DANNY: Jesus Christ . What are you doing , Henry ?
LITTLE HENRY: What does it look like I 'm doin ' ?
DANNY: Come on , man , no . You do n't want to do this . Come on . Henry ?
LITTLE HENRY: Danny ?
RASMUSSEN: He wo n't let go . Will you talk to him ?
SWEENEY: Derek ? You got ta let him go , man . They got ta get him outta here .
SWEENEY: Derek ! I know what you 're thinkin ' ight now and I want you to forget about it !
DEREK: How the luck do you know what I 'm thinkin ' , Sweeney ! ?
SWEENEY: Cause I 'm thinkin ' the same damn thing !
DEREK: They shot him in a fuckingpisshole !
SWEENEY: And goin ' after them wo n't bring him ack . Do n't do it , Derek . Please , man . You 've come too far . The war is over .
DEREK: It stops now , Sweeney .
RICHIE DIMASO: What are you doing , going behind my ack ? Telling people I 'm screwing up this operation ? I got you a suite at the fuckin ' Plaza Hotel !
IRVING ROSENFELD: The shittiest suite at the Plaza Hotel .
IRV ROSENFELD: The shittiest fuckin ' suite .
RICHIE DIMASO: Based on what ?
EDITH GREENSLY: No
IRVING ROSENFELD: Are you dressing him like you 're dressing me now ?
EDITH GREENSLY: No , what are you thinking ? This is n't all about you , you know that .
RICHIE DIMASO: What , did you try to dress me so I would look like him ?
EDITH GREENSLY: No , you 're not dressed like him , all right ?
RICHIE DIMASO: But I do , I look like him .
EDITH GREENSLY: No , he 's in like , velvet . Come on .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You asked me to show you how this was done , you wan na fuck it up be my guest .
EDITH GREENSLY: What is your problem ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Hey , look , I never laid a hand on her , all right ? Is that what this is about ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Well technically , that 's not true .
RICHIE DIMASO: Look , we never had sex ok ? I just
IRVING ROSENFELD: Do n't you fucking touch me . That others me
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh it does ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Oh yeah .
RICHIE DIMASO: That bothers you ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yes .
RICHIE DIMASO: You know , a lot of shit bothers me too , but I was trying to help you . If I wanted to bother you , if I eally wanted to fucking bothe you , this is what I 'd do .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You should n't have done that .
RICHIE DIMASO: How 's that ? You bothered now ? Alright , do n't make a thing of it .
EDITH GREENSLY: You should n't touch him . He does n't like that .
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh my god , fix his hair . Do n't make a thing of it .
EDITH GREENSLY: It takes some time , ok .
RICHIE DIMASO: Big fucking deal . We got to get in the other room , come on . The mayor 's in there .
EDITH GREENSLY: Yes I know that .
RICHIE DIMASO: Should we go to the beauty parlor ? Is that what we should do ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: How 's it look .
EDITH GREENSLY: You look fine .
RICHIE DIMASO: Let 's go .
CARMINE POLITO: I thought he was going to be here . I do business face to face , person to person . That 's just who I am .
CARL ELWAY: Whoa , excuse me , excuse me . I 'll handle that for the Mayor .
RICHIE DIMASO: No , it 's for the Mayor . It would be a sign of disrespect to the sheik if the mayor did n't take it himself . It 's for you Mayor .
CARMINE POLITO: What are you doing ? What Carl , what the fuck ? What is this ?
CARL ELWAY: No , I 'll handle it . I 'm gon na take care of Everything 's good . I got everything under control . That 's for me . I handle all that for mayor .
CARMINE POLITO: What is this ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Just stop it , ok
RICHIE DIMASO: He 's got ta take it himself , okay ?
CARMINE POLITO: I do n't know what the fuck that is ut it 's weird you understand ?
CARL ELWAY: Misunderstanding . Misunderstanding .
CARMINE POLITO: I came here to meet a sheik , that 's all I know . I 'm very interested in that but he 's not here apparently . Carl ? !
CARL ELWAY: Irving ! You better come get him .
RICHIE DIMASO: Go out there and get him right now .
CARL ELWAY: Help me get him back !
RICHIE DIMASO: Go get him . He needs to take the fuckin ' briefcase , Irving .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I did n't wan na do it in the first place . This is your show , YOU go get him .
RICHIE DIMASO: No , you have no choice . You have to go get him . Now , go get him , so he takes the briefcase by himself ! That 's the whole plan , Irving !
IRVING ROSENFELD: What were you doing pushing the fucking briefcase , dummy ? Huh ?
RICHIE DIMASO: The whole fuckin ' thing was falling apart . You know how much I paid for this goddamn hotel that you fucking asked for ? !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Now I got ta go mop up your mess . I 'm gon na go fucking mop up you mess !
RICHIE DIMASO: You understand what I 'm saying , ight ? It was n't working .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I learned how to survive when I was a kid .
SYDNEY PROSSER: As a matter of fact , it is . He died this year , you know .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I know . I doubt anyone else here knows or cares about it .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Well I care . He saved my life many times . Irving takes a good look at her , impressed .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Mine too . Which one ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Jeep 's Blues .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Jeep 's Blues . Oh yeah . Awkward pause .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Right now ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Sure .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Who starts a song like that ? !
SYDNEY PROSSER: It 's magic .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Magic .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Alright .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I got two in the Bronx and three in Manhattan . Hey , Byron .
SYDNEY PROSSER: People leave stuff here ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Oh yeah . They go out for the night , they drink , come here in the morning , put their clothes in and then they forget . They got no idea where they left it . Irving touches a hanging blue sequined dress .
SYDNEY PROSSER: It 's beautiful .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I mean , some of it 's been here fo years . They 're not picking it up . Nobody 's picking it up .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I love it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's yours . You want it ? It 's yours . Sydney looks back at Irving in shock .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Oh my god . I can only dream about these dresses . They 're beautiful .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah , sometimes . This is my office .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I know it 's your office , but , you have these other places . What 's this for ? Why did you bring me here ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: This getting to be my main usiness , my growing business . I help get loans for guys that ca n't get loans . I 'm their last resort .
SYDNEY PROSSER: You 're their last resort ? Because interest rates are north of 12 % and heading to 18 % .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's right , smarty pants .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Fucking Jimmy Carter . Fucking Nixon eally . And the war and the deficit and all of that shit .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I love you , you 're so smart . You are .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Thanks kid but how do you get them the money ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Well
SYDNEY PROSSER: You do n't do you ? You do n't .
IRVING ROSENFELD: These guys are lousy risks , you know ? I ca n't get them a loan but I get my fee . Five thousand .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Five thousand ? You take five thousand and you do n't give them anything ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: These are bad guys , you know ? They got bad divorces , gambling habits , embezzling , all that shit , you know what I mean ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Everybody at the bottom crosses paths eventually in a pool of desperation and you 're waiting fo them .
IRVING ROSENFELD: How about ` we ' ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: We ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: How bout it ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: You said it was nice knowing me . You said it was nice to meet me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Would you like to meet Lady Edith Greensly ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: That was fucking fantastic .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Thank you . Did you like it ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I liked it . I did n't think you were coming back . Thank god you came ack .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I was n't going anywhere .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I fucking love you .
SYDNEY PROSSER: You have me .
BUSINESSMAN: Rebecca , hold on . You 're Edith ight ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: We 're very selective .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got a strong application . We 'll talk about it .
SYDNEY PROSSER: You 're not being aggressive enough in putting up your assets The man looks nervous
DESPERATE MAN: Five thousand gets me fifty right ?
ANOTHER BUSINESSMAN: Five will get me thirty five . Is that right ?
EDITH GREENSLY: It 's really a fabulous example of a genre painting , which is really are for the time . It 's a boy and his dog . Non-religious painting . 55 . Golden age . Dutch painting .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Paul Klee . Bauhaus Movement . 1920s .
EDITH GREENSLY: Do n't show any Spanish friends .
DANNY: DADDY !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Danny . This is a fantastic picture . What did you do today ?
DANNY: That kid Donovan is being mean to me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: The big kid ? I thought Mommy picked you up so he could n't bother you .
DANNY: She was late , and then after we put out the fire , mommy said stay in my oom with my baseball cards .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What fire ?
DANNY: Did you know they make a lamp that has the sun in it ? Mommy got the lamp . She made her special drink and the lamp made a fire . Irv looks concerned .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I put out the fire . The fire is out .
IRVING ROSENFELD: For the first time in my life I do the right thing .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Oh shut up
IRVING ROSENFELD: I save a young single mother , and her kid . I marry her . I adopt him -
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You fell in love ! Do n't forget we fell madly in love !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yes , I fell in love . My God , I fell in love . Yes . But you know what ? I thought you were mysterious like my mother until it turned out that mysterious just meant depressed , hard to reach . I mean , I 'm dying here ! And you need somebody who 's gon na be quiet like you . You 're young , you 're eautiful . You got ta find somebody else . You got ta go out and get some friends all right ? Do n't sit inside
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I do n't like going out . You know that I get anxiety when I have to meet people . You know how hard that is .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah but you ca n't just stay in the house with the fucking sun lamp . Alright ? And I ca n't I mean , look , I ca n't trust you with it anyway . That fire and everything . I ca n't trust to leave you with Danny .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I put the fire out Irving ! There is no fire ! Maybe if you were here more , then there would n't have been a fire in the first place .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Oh , what , there would n't have been a fire if I was here ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Just stop with the whole fire thing . God it was a mistake . I 'm sure a million people do that all the time . Those sun lamps are dangerous . Should n't even have them in the house , really . I bet that happens all the time . This was nothing .
IRVING ROSENFELD: We 're not happy . Alright ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You know that I could take Danny . You know that most of your work is illegal . And you know that if you tried to divorce me , you know that I 'm not saying that I would , but I 'm saying that I could . And I 'm saying that that is why I do n't like divorce , Irving . Women do that in divorces . Women get the children , and then the fathers never see them . My mother never got divorced . My grandmother never got divorced . There are NO divorces in my family . I am not getting a divorce .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Come on . What are we doing here ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: We fight and we fuck and that 's what we do . That 's our thing .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Alright .
IRVING ROSENFELD: and every deal I take , I close . However , my fee is non refundable , just like my time .
EDITH GREENSLY: No , you did n't mention that . Two lunches and you never mentioned that .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Two lunches ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yes . It 's two lunches . What 's the ig deal ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's unusual .
EDITH GREENSLY: I was trying to get him to be more aggressive . On his loan that is . Mort PAPIERMAN/RICHIE DIMASO You showed me a whole new side of the city I 'd never seen before .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah , right . You liked it ? Should I take you there ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yes .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Should I take you there twice ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Stop .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What 's going on , you like this guy ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yes I like this guy .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Is that messing up your judgement ? Do n't be stupid .
SYDNEY PROSSER: No , he 's not messing with my judgment .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hey , play your part .
EDITH GREENSLY: Fine . You play your part .
IRVING ROSENFELD: If you could excuse me for one second ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got the wrong office , you 're gon na be embarrassed .
EDITH GREENSLY: Hey ! Not so tight !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Oh really ? That 's interesting . I do n't even know your real name .
RICHIE DIMASO: Richie Dimaso , FBI . Nice to meet you .
RICHIE DIMASO: Been in there three days . Has n't een so good for her . Irv continues to stare at Sydney .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Who made you god and judge ?
RICHIE DIMASO: My grandmother lived to be ninety- three years old . Never lied in he life .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Congratulations .
RICHIE DIMASO: Thank you . I 'm proud of that , too . Does that make her not a good person ? Is that not something to strive for ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Why you breaking my balls ? Get to the point .
RICHIE DIMASO: I see something in you , Irving . I get very excited . I think that we have a lot of potential here . Now , look . I came up with the idea . It 's all from me . I want to change things . I want to go after white collar crime . Irving , you 're very skilled . And I want you to teach me and we can do this . I want fou people that do what you do . Fraudulent investments . Fake certificates of deposit . Stolen art , fake art . You get me fou people and you 're off the hook .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Four busts and you 'll leave us alone ? We do n't have to testify ?
RICHIE DIMASO: You 're good , you 're done . Anything you want . But if you run , then you life is over . You 'll be hunted , and it 's gon na be very difficult fo Rosalyn and your kid to live in this country .
SYDNEY PROSSER: We need to leave . We need to run and we need to do it now . We can go to Estonia or Romania , I do n't care , we 'll take the cash from the ed and get out of here , alright ? We talked about it a hundred times .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What about Danny ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: What about Danny ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I adopted him ! I gave him my name ! I 'm not leaving him with Rosalyn , she 's unstable !
SYDNEY PROSSER: That 's a manipulation ! Rosalyn 's will never let you go . She 'll use Danny against you because she 's too messed up to let you leave .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I ca n't leave him . I love him . Alright ? He 's my son .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Richie said you would say that .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Richie ? What , the cop ? Your on a first name basis with him ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Yes I am . I 'm not even on your list am I ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: What list ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Your list . Your short list . You long list . I 'm not even on anyone of your fucking lists . I thought you loved me . I thought we had something .
IRVING ROSENFELD: We do have something . I love you , it 's perfect ! What are you saying ? We 're gon na go to Romania ? We 're gon na take Danny ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Yes . Yes , that 's what I 'm saying . You , me , Danny .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Well you never said that before .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm saying it now . We 're us , and we can make it an adventure like we did . We can make it an adventure like we make everything , alright ? But we have to go now . We have to leave right now .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I ca n't leave Danny . I 'll lose custody .
SYDNEY PROSSER: You have to take me away ! We have to leave ! What are you saying ? ! Oh my god .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What are you doing ? ! Please !
SYDNEY PROSSER: I ca n't believe this is happening .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Do n't say I do n't love you because that 's bullshit !
SYDNEY PROSSER: This is bullshit . You are bullshit . We are bullshit . She starts sobbing , shaking .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Please do n't do this .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I just never thought you were conning me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I could never con you . I love you . Please do n't say this .
SYDNEY PROSSER: No , I 'm done .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Do n't say that .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm gon na do these four busts , these four cons , to get us out of this . Not just me , but us . And I 'm gon na get really close with Richie , the cop , in case we need to use him , if we need another move .
IRVING ROSENFELD: We do n't need another move . We need four busts , and we 're done .
SYDNEY PROSSER: We are going to need another move , trust me . And you 're going to be thanking me . The key to people is what they believe and what they want to elieve and I want to believe that we were real , and I want to believe that a man could want me . And I 'm gon na take all of that heartbreak , and all of that sorrow , and I am going to use it . And I 'm going to make Richie think that I want him , and that I like him , and I 'm going to be very convincing And I 'm pissed at you .
IRVING ROSENFELD: How do you think this works , stupid ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: If you could not call him ` stupid ' which he 's is n't , he 's smarter than you . Last I checked he 's in control here and we work for him now so be nice .
IRVING ROSENFELD: OK , to set this up and bust a con artist we have to make the honey pot to attract the bees . In orde to attract the bees , we need to offer them a wealthy individual who can be taken advantage of , someone special , someone new , someone amazing . Then those guys will want to sell fake bank CDS to THAT guy , take the sheik 's money , see ? Richie looks at Irving uncertain .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Only they ca n't get into his money unless you they know someone , and that someone is us .
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh that 's good .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Keep your voice down .
RICHIE DIMASO: or sell fake art or stolen art or fake certificates of deposit , he needs who does he need ? he needs a rich sheik guy , and there you go we can pinch him !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Right , but I do n't tell Elway shit . I wait for him to call me . The art world is a small world and one of Elway 's acquaintances is clocking us right now . Richie starts to look around .
RICHIE DIMASO: Where ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Do n't look .
RICHIE DIMASO: How do you know the Sheik ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: This is my friend Al from Queens .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah , he 's good .
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's a fake .
RICHIE DIMASO: Wait , what 're you talking about ? That 's impossible .
IRVING ROSENFELD: People believe what they want to elieve . Cause the guy who made this was so good that it 's real to everybody . Now whose the master the painter or the forger ?
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's a fake ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's the way the world works . Not lack and white as you say . Extremely grey .
EDITH GREENSLY: Arthur ? Hi . Edith . We 've met efore .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah , I 'm Robert Spencer , adviso to the sheik .
CARL ELWAY: What 's this I hear about a god damn Sheik ? ! Why you leaving me out of this ? I got ta hear about it from my friends ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: It ai n't for you Carl .
CARL ELWAY: What do you mean it ai n't for me ? We got ta do certificates of deposit . I can print as many as you need .
IRVING ROSENFELD: This is not a one man operation .
CARL ELWAY: Look , I can get other guys . What are you talking about Irving ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You 're telling me that you can get four guys to sell fake certificates of deposit to my investor within a week ?
CARL ELWAY: Yes I can make that happen . Carl Elway can do what he says he 's going to do .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's interesting but you know I 've got other guys lined up . I 've got a meeting with my associates .
CARL ELWAY: No wait . Do n't go anywhere .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 've got to go .
CARL ELWAY: Or we could do somethin ' much igger ! Richie jumps into the conversation .
RICHIE DIMASO: Something bigger ? My guy deals with hundreds of millions of dollars . How much bigger ? He walks over to Carl .
CARL ELWAY: Hundreds of million I knew you were holdin ' out on me Irving ! Hundreds of millions of dollars ? Like much bigger . Like I 'm talking about we say never the fuck mind the CD 's and we could have some complete access to something huge .
RICHIE DIMASO: Huge ? Like what ? Robert Spencer , advisor to the Sheik .
CARL ELWAY: Carl Elway .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hey , quit while you 're ahead Carl .
CARL ELWAY: I know the guy . I know the right people who are going to help you out .
RICHIE DIMASO: Whose the guy ?
CARL ELWAY: The guy is Carmine Polito .
RICHIE DIMASO: Whose Carmine Polito ?
STODDARD THORSEN: Carmine Polito ? Carmine Polito , no .
CARMINE POLITO: The W.P.A . employed craftsmen to paint this during the Depression . Why ca n't we employ people today to do work like this in rebuilding Atlantic City ?
STODDARD THORSEN: You said grifters and con artists . We 're not going after some politician . This is a bad idea , Richard .
RICHIE DIMASO: Shhhh . Look , it 's really simple . All you need is to put two million in a Chase account
STODDARD THORSEN: What ? !
RICHIE DIMASO: Shh , just listen . Two million dollars under the Sheik 's name , in a Chase account that we control . Carmine calls up on the telephone calls the bank and he sees that the Sheik is real and he has a real account . Five days .
STODDARD THORSEN: I 'm not taking two million dollars of the taxpayers ' money and putting it anywhere for five days , I do n't care if we control it the whole time .
RICHIE DIMASO: Stoddard , let us do what we need to do to rule out corruption and to get rid of the payoff guys that are uining this country . That 's my dream . Do n't smother it , please .
STODDARD THORSEN: You know Richard , I understand you eagerness . I really do . You know I 'm from Michigan , right ? Let me tell you a story about me , and my dad , and my brother . We used to go ice fishing every November . Ice Fishing . That 's what we lived for .
RICHIE DIMASO: Holy shit
STODDARD THORSEN: Just listen to me . It 's beautiful . You have a little stove . You huddle around , you keep each other warm . You drop a line and you just wait . One year my brother says , `` let 's go in October . '' He wants to go ice fishing in October . My dad says , `` No , the ice is too thin . '' My other says I love my brothe he says
RICHIE DIMASO: I understand what 's happening . You 're saying your brother went out on the ice , the ice was too thin , he fell through the ice , he went in the water because he was too eager , and you 're saying I 'm too eager that 's what you 're saying ?
STODDARD THORSEN: No , that 's not what I 'm saying .
RICHIE DIMASO: What are you saying ?
STODDARD THORSEN: We 'll finish the ice fishing story another time , young man . For now , no Carmine Polito . Go do your job . Richie looks at him annoyed and upset .
RICHIE DIMASO: Boring .
EDITH GREENSLY: Brenda , hi !
BRENDA MCPHERSON: Hi !
EDITH GREENSLY: You said you liked exotic food , so that 's from England .
BRENDA MCPHERSON: That 's from England ?
EDITH GREENSLY: That 's right . And I brought you some tea as well .
BRENDA MCPHERSON: Thank you so much ! Nobody eve tells me about these operations , they just say , `` Brenda , do the clerical wiring work and do n't ask questions . ''
EDITH GREENSLY: You need to tell Richie about you cats . He loves them .
BRENDA MCPHERSON: Oh my cats ? !
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's impressive .
ANTHONY AMADO: I 'm very impressed . That was very smart . The Sheik with the money in the bank is a fantasticdo n't be modest .
STODDARD THORSEN: Thank you , sir , wait , the sheik
RICHIE DIMASO: You should be happy . There 's imaginative things happening in this office , alright ? We 're not just working in a box . Richie leaves triumphant .
STODDARD THORSEN: Punk .
IRVING ROSENFELD: We succeeded because we stayed small . I got you Carl Elway . He ought stolen art , sold fake bank C.D . 's , that 's enough . That 's one . I get you three more no politicians . Richie and Edith look at him .
RICHIE DIMASO: You 're gon na do this because you got no choice . You work for me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Now you keep changing the rules . You 're gettin ' a little powe drunk , Richard .
MORE: 52 .
EDITH GREENSLY: Oh no , I said we should n't do any of it , Irving . You know I said that . So now I support Richie . He 's got vision . Do it heavy o do n't do it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I mean , he 's the one ruining America , not me .
RICHIE DIMASO: How the hell am I ruining America ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Because people just got ove Watergate and Vietnam , alright ? And you 're gon na shit all ove politicians again ? And just because you want to be a big shot and get a promotion .
RICHIE DIMASO: No I 'm thinking big . This is gon na e fantastic . We 're doing video surveillance . I 'm doing this from the feet up .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You will never do it properly ecause you got too much government attitude to be small and sleek . I 'm like the fuckin ' Vietcong , man . I 'm in and I 'm out . I was there the whole time you do n't know it . That 's the fucking art of becoming somebody who people can pin thei eliefs and their dreams on . And you ca n't do it .
RICHIE DIMASO: How about a suite at the Sheraton Hotel ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: For Carmine Polito and rebuilding Atlantic City ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Why not ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You need a luxury hotel for the Sheik . Come on !
RICHIE DIMASO: Carmine does back door dealings all the time . We do n't have a budget for that Irving !
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got ta knock the Mayor , the Speaker of the State Assembly you got ta knock him off of his fucking feet . He 's got ta feel like he 's out of his league . What you 're offering , this deal , I mean , this is unheard of in the state of New Jersey , maybe even the whole fucking country . A sheik with hundreds of millions of dollars to ebuild Atlantic City are you fuckin ' kidding me ? That 's gigantic . And the Mayor , he 's going to want to see cash , he 's going to want to see it in an account , he 's going to want to see it right now , and he will check . And that 's why this meeting is n't happening , ecause to get millions , you need millions . Edith listens intently .
EDITH GREENSLY: We already did it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What ? Irv studies Richie and Edith .
EDITH GREENSLY: We got the bureau to park 2 million for three days we got the account numbers .
IRVING ROSENFELD: ` We ' meaning you and him ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah we did it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Really ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yeah , me and that guy .
RICHIE DIMASO: She showed me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You showed him our thing ? You did that without me ? Are you kidding me ?
EDITH GREENSLY: What are you going to do ?
RICHIE DIMASO: You playing me ? Are we doing this ? Or you playing him ? It 'd be very ad for you if you 're playing me .
EDITH GREENSLY: You 're going to have to decide fo yourself , kid , I just laid everything out on the table .
RICHIE DIMASO: This is all very exciting , I neve knew life could be like this . You 're wild . You know we 're taking down a very important politician .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Mr. Mayor Please stop . Listen , I apologize if that prick offended you . I really apologize .
CARMINE POLITO: Really , I 'm all right , thank you . I 'm okay .
IRVING ROSENFELD: No . I 'm fucking embarrassed to be associated with that guy at all . Can I just say somethin ' to you , please ? Do n't lose this opportunity to fuckin ' Florida all right ? ecause of some bullshit from that punk advisor with his diploma who could never get into the school that we come from . Do n't lose that opportunity .
CARMINE POLITO: Where you from ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 'm from the Bronx . Grand Concourse , Hundred and Sixty-fourth Street .
CARMINE POLITO: I got a lot of friends that live up there . I go to Tomaso 's on Arthu Avenue . You know Tomasos 's ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah , Tomaso 's .
CARMINE POLITO: The spicy clams .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yes . They 're always good .
CARMINE POLITO: Oh , they 're to fucking die for , those clams . I have n't been there in a while . I like that place .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Carmine can I call you Carmine ? You know , Carmine My fuckin ' heart 's going from running down the stairs I 'm not used to running . There 's a lotta green grass in that hotel oom up there , alright ? And all the deals would float through you . You get a serious piece on both ends . You do with that what you will . I live in the real world , I am a family man , I got mouths to feed and everything . But , you know , we justwe got ta grease you directly . No middlemen , no ullshit . It 's the Arab way .
CARMINE POLITO: Yeah , look , I understand . It 's a great opportunity . It 's just I got a little thrown by going to have a meeting with somebody who ended up not being there , so
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hey , listen , I was thrown as well .
CARMINE POLITO: I understand . I 'll deal with you directly . I do n't want any middleman or any of that bullshit .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Done .
CARMINE POLITO: I like you . Eye to eye . We can do usiness together .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I got ta work with him . He 's the Sheik 's man .
CARMINE POLITO: But I still need to meet the Sheik , okay ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Done .
RICHIE DIMASO: Who ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Carmine and myself and the wives .
RICHIE DIMASO: What ? ! Without me ? !
IRVING ROSENFELD: He does n't like you , what do you want from me , I got him to come ack and take the money and you got him on tape alright ? I ca n't make him like you . I did my job .
RICHIE DIMASO: Did you tell him you were working with me ? That I 'm the Sheik 's associate ? !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I just fucking told you he does n't like you . I mean , let him have a night out with a human being fo fuck 's sake , he 's going to jail soon . You 're done with him . You got him on tape taking a bribe .
RICHIE DIMASO: Carmine has got to deal with me , Irving .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What ? ! Like who ? !
RICHIE DIMASO: Carmine 's gon na use the Sheik to pay off people .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Are you fuckin ' nuts ? What are you say
RICHIE DIMASO: We 're gon na let Carmine show the Sheik Atlantic City , how he 's gon na enovate hotels , and see who shows up . Whoever the Sheik pays off fo licenses and casinos , that 's who we 're gon na go after . We 're gon na go after all of 'em !
IRVING ROSENFELD: More politicians ? You realize how fuckin ' dangerous that is ? There 's no fucking reasoning with you .
RICHIE DIMASO: If your that successful , how come you wound up in this room with me ? Taking orders from me .
EDITH GREENSLY: You 're taking your wife out to dinner ? Your fucking wife ? Did I just hear you correctly ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's the one thing you heard me say ?
EDITH GREENSLY: I just find it rather shocking that 's all .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I get to handle two wives with one dinner , alright ? I take Rosalyn out , she keeps her mouth shut , she sees that my work is legitimate , I get to keep my kid , and I get to keep that fucking wife happy . Both wives happy .
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh my god , what did you do ?
RICHIE'S MOTHER: Richard , the filter is broken in the fish tank . It 's a problem .
RICHIE DIMASO: See , your job is to do the filter , Mom , mine is to do the gravel . When you do n't do the filter right all the fish die . See ?
RICHIE'S MOTHER: I ca n't get the top on that filter .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 've gone over this a hundred times mom
RICHIE'S MOTHER: and please help Richard to marry Diane so that I may have grandchildren and the Pope may have more followers . And please bless this food that we are about to eat -
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah , hello ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Hi .
RICHIE DIMASO: Who 's this ?
EDITH GREENSLY: It 's Edith .
RICHIE DIMASO: Are you alright ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yeah , I 'm fine , I 'm just alone , you know ? Irving 's out with Carmine .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's right , he went out with Carmine and his wife . You must not feel so good about that .
EDITH GREENSLY: Wait who 's there ? Who are you with ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh , no , it 's just people .
EDITH GREENSLY: Oh , you 've got a fiance . You 're engaged .
RICHIE DIMASO: Well , I do n't know , no fiance . I do n't know .
EDITH GREENSLY: You do n't know if you have a fiance ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I do n't know
EDITH GREENSLY: You do n't know ? You do n't know if you have a fiance ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I do n't . No .
EDITH GREENSLY: Hmm intersting .
RICHIE DIMASO: Hey , you want to get together ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Fifty-fourth Street ?
RICHIE DIMASO: OK , fifty-fourth street .
EDITH GREENSLY: OK .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's what that phone call 's about . Everybody thought , `` Oh , Richie DiMaso 's gon na stay in the office , pushing papers . '' That 's not gon na happen , Mom . I 'm outside in the field . I got people working for me . My ideas . I 'm running the show . I 'm the quarterback . And I 'm not gon na settle for no one , Mom .
CARMINE POLITO: Rocco , you know like we do . The chicken very thin . You should see the way he does this chicken with the red sauce
DOLLY POLITO: It 's beautiful .
CARMINE POLITO: Right ? With the red sauce , the lemon
DOLLY POLITO: It 's the Piccata of the gods !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I believe that you should treat people the way that you want to be treated .
CARMINE POLITO: Right .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Did n't Jesus say that or something ?
CARMINE POLITO: He may have .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Also , always take a favor ove money . I think Jesus said that as well .
CARMINE POLITO: I do n't know if he said the second one but he may have said the first one .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I chip them moving furniture , it 's my obsession Moving , re- decorating , it makes me feel bette like exercise . There 's this top coat that you can only get from Switzerland and I do n't know what I 'm going to do because I 'm running out of it but I LOVE the smell of it .
DOLLY POLITO: I can get that for you , of course .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: There 's something , the topcoat , it 's like perfumey ut there 's also something rotten ? I know that sounds crazy , but I ca n't get enough of it . Dolly laughs .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I ca n't get enough .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Carmine , sweet and sour . Rotten and delicious .
CARMINE POLITO: Smells like flowers .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Flowers , but with garbage .
CARMINE POLITO: You know what that is for me ? It 's coriander for me .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Irving loves it . He ca n't get enough . That 's what hooks you . He always comes back for it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I ca n't stop .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: He 's gon na say we have to talk usiness in five , four , three , two , one
IRVING ROSENFELD: Dolly , can me and the mayor talk usiness here ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Did n't your fiance want to come out tonight ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah , no , I do n't know .
EDITH GREENSLY: I 'm sorry , we do n't have to talk about it . I was just teasing you .
RICHIE DIMASO: Do you ever think , how did I end up here ? How did my life become this ? You ever think that ? And you wonder , am I ever gon na get to a etter place or is this it ? You ever feel like that ? Edith stares , nods yes .
EDITH GREENSLY: I do . I definitely know that . Edith nods puts a hand on his face .
RICHIE DIMASO: No , I need this . Please , I need to go dancing with you . Richie reaches down and squeezes her hand .
EDITH GREENSLY: OK baby , let 's go dancing .
RICHIE DIMASO: I really fucking like you .
EDITH GREENSLY: I like you too . I want to live , alright . For real . No more fake shit . Alright ?
RICHIE DIMASO: OK .
EDITH GREENSLY: No more fake shit .
RICHIE DIMASO: No more fake shit .
EDITH GREENSLY: No more fake shit !
RICHIE DIMASO: I want to be fucking real !
EDITH GREENSLY: AHHHHHHH !
CARMINE POLITO: This guy right here , Irving Rosenfeld ? You know what he 's gon na do ? He 's gon na bring the Sheik to Atlantic City , where we can rebuild all those resorts there , put everybody back to work .
JULIUS: To Irving .
GIRLS: To Irving !
CARMINE POLITO: This guy right here . He 's got a big heart .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 'd just hate it if it did n't work out .
CARMINE POLITO: What do you mean ? Of course it 's going to work out . Guys like you and me ? We dream and we build . We never give up . We never quit .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Sure .
CARMINE POLITO: Is the sheik black ? Irving looks flummoxed .
IRVING ROSENFELD: He 's an Arab . They look at each other .
CARMINE POLITO: That 's black , is n't it ? Irv is n't sure what to say .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Why you asking ?
CARMINE POLITO: Maybe it 's a dumb question , but I was just wondering I would like to arrange for the Sheik to see Camden . To see the people of Camden . The people I serve . The people I love . Who are mostly black and Puerto Rican . I really want him to see how good this is going to be for the community , how ready we are for this opportunity , and he can see how far his dollar will go . You know what I mean ? What do you think ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah we can do that . He can see Camden .
CARMINE POLITO: Hey , I got something I wan na give to you .
IRVING ROSENFELD: For me ?
CARMINE POLITO: I got you a gift . Let 's get out of here . The girls are going to kill us I 'm sure .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What is it ?
CARMINE POLITO: It 's a microwave . It heats up everything . Pasta , lasagna , meatballs , whatever .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Really ?
CARMINE POLITO: It 's science , yeah . That 's how it heats up the food . It 's scientific .
IRVING ROSENFELD: And you specifically bought this science oven for me .
CARMINE POLITO: Yes . A new friend .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Thank you .
CARMINE POLITO: Do n't put metal in it . Come on , let 's get out of here .
RICHIE DIMASO: I need a jet at Teeterboro for the sheik .
STODDARD THORSEN: You do n't need a jet . Let him walk to the curb at JFK .
RICHIE DIMASO: Stoddard , that 's not how it works . You got to do it from the feet up .
STODDARD THORSEN: That does n't mean anything . What 's that mean ?
RICHIE DIMASO: It means you got ta be committed ! It means you got ta be committed to something in your life , fo Christ 's sake . I want a jet at Teterboro for the Sheik . It can be a small jet . It does n't even have to take off , cause I know you 're so worried about how much money the Bureau 's gon na fucking spend . It can take off and land on the tarmac , okay ?
STODDARD THORSEN: Alright , you can have a jet for an hour , but it takes off and lands at Teterboro .
RICHIE DIMASO: I got the jet ?
STODDARD THORSEN: You got the jet .
STODDARD THORSEN: Where was I ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Your father woke you up , it was a lizzard , it was Lake Canoga . Come on !
STODDARD THORSEN: Okay , well , my brother and I were on the ice and my father came out of the house and I could see him coming . He was holding a lantern , and it was in the blizzard and I knew he was gon na be angry . So I went to intercept my father because I knew if he saw what my brothe was doing he was going to kill him . Richie cuts him off .
RICHIE DIMASO: So you tried to protect you other , but you could n't and that 's why you feel bad , because you 're trying to protect me and you 're worried about me . Is that what the story 's about ? About protection ?
STODDARD THORSEN: No , it 's not about protection .
RICHIE DIMASO: It 's not about protection ?
STODDARD THORSEN: No .
RICHIE DIMASO: Alright , fine . Richie walks out the door .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: `` Do n't put metal in the science oven , do n't put metal in the science oven , Rosalyn '' always treats me like a fucking child . I 'll do whatever I want .
DANNY: Another fire !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: No , Danny , not that one ! That one 's empty ! We got ta use the big one !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I told you not to put metal in the science oven . Why did you do that for ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Do n't make such a big deal . Just get another one .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I do n't want another one . I want the one that Carmine gave me .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: `` I want the one Carmine gave me ! '' Carmine , Carmine , why do n't you just marry Carmine , get a little gold microwave and put it on a chain around your neck . You want to e more like Carmine ? Why do n't you uild something like he does , instead of all your empty deals that are just like your fucking science oven . You know I read that it takes all of the nutrition out of our food . It 's empty , just like your deals . Empty , empty !
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's bullshit .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: It 's not bullshit . I read it in an article . Look , by Paul Brodeur .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I do n't think you should come to Carmine 's party tonight . You look eautiful by the way .
EDITH GREENSLY: Do n't look at me . Do n't look at my legs , do n't look at my hair , do n't smell my hair , do n't ask me how I am , do n't talk to me outside of these roles , 'cause we 're done .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What are you doing ? Get under the umbrella . It 's just that Carmine wants Rosalyn to come .
EDITH GREENSLY: I do n't care . You were n't listening . I do n't care if Rosalyn comes . Just do your job , okay ? You 're nothing to me until you 're everything . I 'm not Rosalyn . I 'm not gon na put up with that shit .
RICHIE DIMASO: Now that 's a fucking jet right ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's good .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's the kinda moves you need to make .
PACO HERNANDEZ: Paco Hernandez . Nice to meet you .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Paco ? He'swait , he 's not a real Arab .
PACO HERNANDEZ: No . I 'm Mexican . From Tuscon .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Wait , where 's my guy ? Where 's Al from Queens ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Who ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: My friend from Queens . Where is he ? What are you doing ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I got ta hire an F.B.I . guy .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What are you You speak any Arabic ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: Yeah . Abdullah Ahmed .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's it ? That 's all you got ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: No , I have a couple phrases . Irving is n't sure , looks Paco up and down .
IRVING ROSENFELD: From the feet up , you motherfucker . What are you doing ? Act normal . That 's it . Like you can barely understand English . You ca n't speak it . You say as little as possible . You follow my lead . Alright ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: Who 's running this ? I thought you were running it .
RICHIE DIMASO: I am running this but you 've got ta listen to him . He 's the guy with the vision .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 've got the vision ? You know what vision I had ? You just kissing my girl outside . That 's what vision I had .
RICHIE DIMASO: I thought you guys broke up . I 'm giving you a compliment .
PACO HERNANDEZ: What 's going on ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Do n't worry about it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got a knife . This is for the Mayor . You 've got to present it to him . Look me in the eye . This means a lot to you . Right ? That knife .
PACO HERNANDEZ: OK .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Play it . You present it . `` Friendship for life , '' alright ? You got ta feel it . Sacred . Can you do it ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: Right . Sacred .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got ta sell it .
RICHIE DIMASO: Sell it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: If you believe it 's sacred , it 's sacred .
RICHIE DIMASO: Listen to what he 's saying .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Can you do it ?
RICHIE DIMASO: It 's the details . That 's what makes this guy a genius .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Again ? You compliment me again . What is this , rubbing salt in the wound ? Irving stares incredulously .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm complimenting you . Any other questions ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: Yeah , I think the name of this operation is offensive .
RICHIE DIMASO: What ?
PACO HERNANDEZ: Abscam . `` Arab Scam ? '' It 's racist .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Are you fucking kidding ? What do you care ? You 're Mexican .
CARMINE POLITO: Hello Sheik , my friend . Welcome . On behalf of the great state of New Jersey I want to welcome you to New Jersey . I know that was redundant . I 'm sorry . I 'm just very nervous .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: But what are you talking about , I ca n't go ? I just did my hair and makeup and everything !
IRVING ROSENFELD: The Sheik 's very particular . It 's international cultural protocol .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: International protocol ? What the fuck are you talking about ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Do not answer that !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Hello Robert Spencer ? I do n't know a Robert Spencer . What do you want ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Give it to me .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Who is that ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Look , I told you , for God 's sake , I told you not to call here .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: What is that about ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Two more federal agents tonight ,
IRVING ROSENFELD: No way .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yes . They 're bodyguards for the Sheik .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's too many people for me to control , no .
RICHIE DIMASO: Look . I 'm in charge here , alright ? Just do it .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Rosalyn , get off the extension !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'm not on it ! But she was on it . She heard .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Look , do n't call here again , alright ? Do n't call at home .
RICHIE DIMASO: Alright ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: OK .
RICHIE DIMASO: Good night .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Federal agents ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's bodyguards for the visiting dignitary , that 's all .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: What is it , an I.R.S . thing ? Like a tax investigation ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Why you got ta say that ? I mean , that 's why I ca n't invite you . It 's too complicated . Listen , come on .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Are you in trouble ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Look , stop being so nosy . Irving opens the fridge which is a mess .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'm only nosy cause you never tell me anything .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Can we clean up this fridge ? I mean , what are you causing trouble for all the time ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: HEL-LO- Oh , hi , Carmine . We were just talking about you .
CARMINE POLITO: Tell him he 's crazy !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Well , I agree . Want to tell him yourself ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Gim me the phone , come on .
CARMINE POLITO: It would n't be a party without you !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Can you imagine ? Tell him yourself .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hey , Carmie .
CARMINE POLITO: Irving , you 're crazy ! Your wife is coming , you kidding me ? She 's the life of the party ! Everybody loves her .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'm the life of the party !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Look , you know what she 's like . She 's unpredictable . She 's just always
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Hey , do n't talk about me like that ! What 's Carmine saying ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I ca n't hear what he 's saying .
CARMINE POLITO: Listen , Irving , it 's very important that she come , you understand ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Carmine loves me .
CARMINE POLITO: This is a really big night for us , you understand ? Come on , you got ta ing your wife . And Dolly 's got somethin ' special for her .
DOLLY POLITO: Tell her I got the nail polish fo her .
CARMINE POLITO: See ? Listen !
DOLLY POLITO: I got your nail polish for you , sweetie !
CARMINE POLITO: You see ? Somethin ' special fo you . What is it ? Tell me . I mean , What is it , you got a girlfriend coming ? Come on , I thought we were friends . You 're not gon na tell me you got a girlfriend ? This is idiculous .
IRVING ROSENFELD: No , it 's just Rosalyn 's unpredictable .
CARMINE POLITO: Look , we 're gon na handle this like men , you understand ? You 're inging your wife . We 're gon na have a good time . That 's an orde from the Mayor . Good-bye .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Alright , you happy ? Go get ready . Irv hangs up and exits the kitchen .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Yes , I am happy .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I know who you are .
CARMINE POLITO: So this is the lobby . Now mind you , a week ago this place was a mess , ut what existed was this plasterwork . Look at the detail . This is beautiful . My sons are craftsmen . Please , tell them what you did .
DOLLY POLITO: Tell them everything you know . The trompe l'oeil .
DOMINIC POLITO: Birds , sky , clouds , wood . Trompe l'oeil `` Trick of the eye . ''
CARMINE POLITO: We can restore all of this , you see ? You save 50 million look at me fifty million right off the at I waive the law I helped write . It said casino construction must be ground up new , we do n't do new . We renovate .
DOLLY POLITO: We do n't do new . We renovate .
CARMINE POLITO: We put in some temporary fun some gaming tables , some play money for people to have a good time . Fo charity the Boys and Girls Clu and some arts programs .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Right .
CARMINE POLITO: The good news is they know how it 's done . They get it done . You do n't have to worry . Everyone makes thei money .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You mean the Mob ?
CARMINE POLITO: Yes , but they 're businessmen , okay ? Now , spend as much or as little time with them as you like , but we do have to deal with them . All we 've got to do is go say hello . We just got ta say hi , that 's all .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Carmine , maybe I 'm not sure that 's such a good idea . We got ta confer before we talk to these guys .
RICHIE DIMASO: Confer ? What is there to confe about ? They 're casino guys .
CARMINE POLITO: They are businessmen .
RICHIE DIMASO: We came all this way , Irving . We should be here . What 's everybody scared of ? There 's nothing to be scared of .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Those are the guys you 're all scared of ? Those guys over there ? They do n't scare me .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Rosalyn !
RICHIE DIMASO: I love this !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Hi . Can I sit here ?
CARMINE POLITO: Irving , this is not a good idea .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: How you guys doing ? Everybody ove there is really scared of you guys , you know that ?
DOLLY POLITO: Kids , I want you to go up and get some pizza and soda , please . Irving and Edith watch in horror at Rosalyn .
EDITH GREENSLY: It 's a disaster .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I think they have this room all wrong .
PETE MUSANE: Yeah ? What would you do ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I would do it in all black and gold and I would do this bar like a big , warm golden mirror .
DICK HELSING: Sounds beautiful .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Thank you . Rosalyn 's smitten by the mobsters .
PETE MUSANE: But you expect that from he ecause she 's so beautiful
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Oh stop .
DICK HELSING: Gorgeous .
PETE MUSANE: I love her hair , so I know I 'm gon na love how she 'd do the room
RICHIE DIMASO: How do you do ?
PETE MUSANE: I 'm sorry is she your wife ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: No , she 's my wife . She 's my wife .
CARMINE POLITO: Look at these fine gentleman .
PETE MUSANE: Carmine , there you are .
CARMINE POLITO: How you doing ?
ROSALYN: It 's because he 's a party pooper . He 's so boring .
PETE MUSANE: You have a very beautiful wife .
GUYS: Salud .
RICHIE DIMASO: May I present Sheik Abdullah , gentlemen , from Abu Dhabi . Sheik , these men are professionals , they un the best casinos in the United States .
PETE MUSANE: Mr. Sheik , as a sign of ou seriousness , Mr. Tallegio came from Miami to meet you tonight .
CARMINE POLITO: Mr. Tallegio ? Why did n't you tell me Mr. Tallegio was here ?
PETE MUSANE: He 's in the back room .
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's a sign of disrespect to do usiness on the first meeting .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's not true . I do n't know what your talking about . He 's got it all wrong .
DICK HELSING: Well , do n't leave him back there in the back room waiting . Come on , let 's go .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Hey Irving , I 'm going to be having fun . Maybe it will be contagious .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Carmine !
CARMINE POLITO: You sure you do n't want to go into the Ocean Bar ? It 's really , it 's eautiful in there .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: If you want to get the gaming license and keep it we have to make our principal investor here , the Sheik , an American citizen .
CARMINE POLITO: To expedite citizenship well , that requires very special treatment .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: You would know the right people to do that , Carmine .
RICHIE DIMASO: Carmine knows everybody .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What are we talking about ?
CARMINE POLITO: U.S . Senators . Congressmen .
RICHIE DIMASO: Wow , that 's fantastic .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I say stay away from that . That 's ad . That 's trouble . No , that 's not good .
RICHIE DIMASO: Irving please .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's trouble .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Who is this guy ? What are you , a farmer ? Richie and Tellegio both laugh .
CARMINE POLITO: Mr. Tellegio , I 'm sorry , this is Irving . New York businessman . Irving Rosenfeld .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Irving , Irving . What 's the matter , Irving ? What 's the problem ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Nothing . No problem .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Do n't get your balls in an uproar . Everything 's fine , everything 's good . It 's all good . It 's all good . I just hope the other part of this is all good . And real . Because we 're real . You know that . You deal with us . We 're a real organization . We deal with you , we do n't know what we 're dealing with .
VICTOR TALLEGIO: Where 's he from ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Abu Dhabi .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Oh , he 's from the Emirates .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah .
RICHIE DIMASO: Uh , I think , I think what he 's
VICTOR TELLEGIO: No , let him speak for himself .
CARMINE POLITO: No , I know him .
AL KOWALSKI: You guys are way too serious for a party ! Hey , what are you drinking ? You got a drink ?
CARMINE: We 're in a very serious meeting . I apologize .
AL KALOWSKI: I understand , you 're in conference . You got ta come with me now . You got a speech to give . Everyone 's waiting for you .
CARMINE POLITO: Al , I 'll be right behind you , okay ? Trust me .
SHEIK ABDULLAH: It is great doing business with you . The investment is real . It was a pleasure to meet you .
VICTOR TELLEGIO: Listen to me carefully . If you 're eal , you put ten million in the ank of our choice in the next two weeks . Carmine nods .
EDITH GREENSLY: Rosalyn , you need to come with me alright ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I do n't need to come with you .
EDITH GREENSLY: You need to come with me . This needs to stop . Come on .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Oh , you think I should come with you ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yeah , you need to come with me ight now .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Why do n't you get your fucking hands off me , you fucking whore !
PETE MUSANE: Hey !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You 're a whore . This is my husband 's whore !
EDITH GREENSLY: That 's real nice .
DOLLY POLITO: We 're not going to do this in the Ocean Room tonight . Not tonight . Please .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: This is my husbands whore !
DOLLY POLITO: You stay over here with me . Everybody just calm down . I do n't know what 's going on . Pete looks over to Rosalyn .
PETE MUSANE: You alright ? Take it easy . These things happen . Whatever 's meant to e will be . Rosalyn smiles at Pete .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: That 's what I always say .
PETE MUSANE: You say that ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Yeah .
PETE MUSANE: See ? Kindred spirits .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Whatever 's meant to be will be .
PETE MUSANE: Whatever 's meant to be will be .
EDITH GREENSLY: What the hell do you think you 're doing ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: What the hell do I think I 'm doing ? ! What the fuck do you think you 're doing ? You really gon na come in here and judge me for flirting with somebody after you 've been fucking my husband for how many years ? !
EDITH GREENSLY: You do n't have any fucking clue what 's going on !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I got a ring on my finger . We have a child together .
EDITH GREENSLY: He does n't love you Rosalyn he loves me . And you know it and I know it and he knows it . And it might be done now , but it was eautiful and it was real .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Stop .
EDITH GREENSLY: And we loved each other .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Shut up . Rosalyn starts to tear up .
EDITH GREENSLY: You scare him , and you manipulate him , and you use your son !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Well , he must like it on some level . He must want it because he keeps coming back for it . It 's like that perfume that you love that you ca n't stop smelling , even when there 's something sour in it . You ca n't get enough of it . But guess what , he 's never gon na leave me . He 's always going to want me , and I will make you so sorry , Edith . I will make you so sorry for what you 've done to my family , mark my words .
EDITH GREENSLY: That is fucked up ! I would neve say anything that fucked up to anybody , but you do because you 're gross inside , you 're so fucked up and gross .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Oh , I 'm gross inside ?
EDITH GREENSLY: Yeah .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Maybe you 're gross inside , with obbing people and all that shit that you do ? Maybe we 're both gross inside , that 's what Irving loves about us . At least he 's consistent with his women . You know , sometimes in life all you have are fucked up , poisonous choices .
EDITH GREENSLY: We need to talk ! This is serious .
AL KALOWSKI: Ladies and gentlemen , your friend , the working man 's friend , my friend , Mayor Carmine Polito ! ON STAGE Carmine TAKES MIC
CARMINE POLITO: Hello , Camden ! Hello , New Jersey ! Hello , Atlantic City ! A lot of my friends been out of work A lot of good hard working families just wan na WORK AND LIVE . There 's no money nowhere . You got ta e kidding me ! do n't they emember who built this country ? The one thing we can all agree about in the State of New Jersey is that we never , ever give up ! Do we ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Can I use your phone ?
STODDARD THORSEN: Stoddard Thorsen .
RICHIE DIMASO: Listen , I need the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel , okay ?
STODDARD THORSEN: That 's a whole floor of the hotel .
RICHIE DIMASO: I need a whole floor . I need it fo my operation
STODDARD THORSEN: Stop calling it your operation , Richard . It 's not your operation . And I 'm not giving you a whole floor of the Plaza Hotel .
RICHIE DIMASO: I have members of Congress that are gon na come in right now to try to give the Sheik citizenship . They 're taking bribes . This is happening ight now . That 's what 's happening ight now .
STODDARD THORSEN: Bribing members of Congress are you out of your fucking mind ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Stoddard . Stoddard ! Shut up ! Listen ! Do you know who Victo Tellegio is ? Victor . Tellegio . Works for Meyer Lansky . You know who that is ?
STODDARD THORSEN: I know who Victor Tellegio is .
RICHIE DIMASO: Resorts International ! He wants ten million dollars . I have two weeks !
STODDARD THORSEN: You 're not getting ten million dollars .
RICHIE DIMASO: Just listen to me ! You 're not listening to me ! I have two weeks ! I have two weeks to put this thing together and I need you to get me the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel . And your going to fucking do it !
STODDARD THORSEN: Lower your voice . You do n't get to yell at me .
RICHIE DIMASO: Calm me down baby . You got ta calm me down .
EDITH GREENSLY: No , no .
RICHIE DIMASO: I want to do this . You 're fucking skin is glowing baby . Your skin is glowing .
EDITH GREENSLY: I 'm not doing this with you . We 're not going to do this unless we do it for real , alright ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I want to do this now !
EDITH GREENSLY: That 's what we agreed on so we 're not going to do that alright ? Alright ? Where are you ? You 're acting all scary . She grabs him by the head to calm him down .
RICHIE DIMASO: I love you . I love you . Look at me . I 'm in love with you . It is real now . I just said it so now 's the time .
EDITH GREENSLY: You want the truth ? You want real ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm ready for real .
SYDNEY PROSSER: OK , this is real . Do you hear my voice ? This is real . This is real . What you hear is real .
RICHIE DIMASO: What ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: This is me .
RICHIE DIMASO: What do you mean ? What are you doing an accent ? An American accent ?
EDITH GREENSLY: No . There is no English . There 's only American . There is no English .
RICHIE DIMASO: What are you talking about ? Stop it . You 're Edith . You 're Edith Greensly . I checked your records .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I falsified my records back to irth . I falsified them .
RICHIE DIMASO: You 're freaking me out . No , you said in the stall that we were going to be real and that we were n't going to fake it .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm being real now . This is who I am . I 'm Sydney Prosser . Ok ?
RICHIE DIMASO: So why did you do an English accent after that ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm sorry I did n't tell you in the stall .
RICHIE DIMASO: Please do n't talk about that . I 'm confused . I 'm confused and
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm fucking confused too , alright ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I think we should fuck , and then we 'll feel it and we wo n't be confused anymore .
SYDNEY PROSSER: No I want to talk . I do n't want to fuck .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yes ! Come on .
SYDNEY PROSSER: NO ! I 'm not fucking you . I 'm not fucking fucking you !
RICHIE DIMASO: AHHH !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Will you please step away from Edith . I 'm asking you nicely please step away from Edith right now .
RICHIE DIMASO: What the fuck
IRVING ROSENFELD: Step away from her . Please .
RICHIE DIMASO: You mean Sydney ? Irving looks over to Sydney very confused .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I told him . I 'm sorry . I just do n't give a fuck anymore , I do n't give a fuck . I do n't fucking care .
RICHIE DIMASO: Irving has a gun .
IRVING ROSENFELD: What Richie 's gotten us into is worse then jail . I told you last night , do n't sit down with those goons . And what ? Now what ? No one 's getting ten million for Tellegio . It 's over .
RICHIE DIMASO: I do n't think so . Irving and Sydney stare .
STODDARD THORSEN: Stoddard Thorsen .
RICHIE DIMASO: You 're going to give me the Sherman Suite . The whole floor .
STODDARD THORSEN: That 's a NO . I said no wacko .
RICHIE DIMASO: And you 're going to tell me the point of that FUCKING fishing story .
STODDARD THORSEN: Not the way you 're behaving .
RICHIE DIMASO: What 's the matter with you ? Where are you right now ?
STODDARD THORSEN: What does that make a difference ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Just tell me where the fuck you are .
STODDARD THORSEN: The field office on 61st street .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm coming to 61st Street . Right now .
STODDARD THORSEN: You 're going to do what ?
RICHIE DIMASO: To beat your ass .
STODDARD THORSEN: You 're going to what ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You were right . We should have gone away .
SYDNEY PROSSER: We were supposed to do it from the feet up like you always said . That 's how we were meant to do it ut you did n't do it like that . You did n't do it like that . You played it safe so there was always a danger you were going to end up with Rosalyn in the dead space , floating on some dead spaceship with the furniture and the curtains . And I was your life line out and you were mine and that was ok .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I wish I could get you back .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Like I said . You never said that . I said that . We got ta get over on all these guys . That 's what we need to e thinking about right now .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's big . That 's crazy . Whateve it is , it 's got to be the best we 've ever done .
RICHIE DIMASO: I am so sorry .
STODDARD THORSEN: I 'm not finished . There 's a lot more .
RICHIE DIMASO: I have nothing but the utmost espect for you as my mentor . and as my
STODDARD THORSEN: What are you doing ?
RICHIE DIMASO: I just want to talk from my heart . I do n't want it on record . I want to get vulnerable .
STODDARD THORSEN: Can I finish ? Can I finish my statement ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Of course . I respect you .
STODDARD THORSEN: I think you do other things besides espect me .
RICHIE DIMASO: It 's just hard for me to control my passion . I 'm a very passionate person . You 're from New York . You understand this . He goes ice fishing in the midwest .
STODDARD THORSEN: That was told to you in confidence .
RICHIE DIMASO: He 's an ice fishing guy . Look at him .
STODDARD THORSEN: No , it 's me . This is me . It 's me .
RICHIE DIMASO: Do n't do something that you do n't know anything about . Alright ? Richie grabs his gun and starts to load it .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'll show you how it 's done . I 'm not even going to hit you . He points the gun at Stoddard .
ANTHONY AMADO: So , you want to use the Sherman Suite ? The entire floor ?
STODDARD THORSEN: OH GOD .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yes ! At the Plaza Hotel .
ANTHONY AMADO: What happened to the Mafia ? I thought you were
RICHIE DIMASO: This is where they intersect ! This is where the two things intersect . The Politicians and the Mafia . Victor Tellegio 's people who run esorts international
ANTHONY AMADO: Victor Tellegio showed his face ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Yes . I sat with him . I sat with Victor Tellegio . I hung out with him . We can get him . We can get his whole organization as well as getting any number of congressmen . I mean , that 's just peeling the first layer of the onion .
ANTHONY AMADO: Wow . How you going to do that ?
RICHIE DIMASO: We would get ten million dollars and put it into an account
STODDARD THORSEN: TEN MILLION DOLLARS ? ! Ten Million dollars ?
RICHIE DIMASO: And that 's how we just let them know we 're for real .
ANTHONY AMADO: What does he say he 's gon na do fo the ten million dollars ? How are we trapping him ?
RICHIE DIMASO: He promises to build casinos , handle the skims , do the licencing -
STODDARD THORSEN: And you have him on tape saying this . You have that right ? No .
ANTHONY AMADO: I want you to find a safer way to get Victor Tellegio on a wire . No ten million dollars that 's crazy .
STODDARD THORSEN: Thank you . Richie looks down , defeated .
ANTHONY AMADO: Even to entrap Tellegio it 's crazy . But you can have the Sherman Suite -
STODDARD THORSEN: NO .
ANTHONY AMADO: Stoddard , please To go and get me some congressmen . Go get some congressmen taking bribes . I want to pinch us some congressmen , ok ? You come back to me . I 'm proud of you .
RICHIE DIMASO: Thank you . And Stoddard .
STODDARD THORSEN: Good luck keeping your job , by the way , and staying out of jail and not being killed by the Mob . But other than that you 're doing a great job . Stoddard turns and storms off .
RICHIE DIMASO: What 's the end of the ice fishing story ?
STODDARD THORSEN: I 'm not telling you the end of the ice fishing story .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm going to call your fucking other and find out from him .
STODDARD THORSEN: My brother 's dead .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's how it ends . He fell through the fucking ice .
STODDARD THORSEN: No it 's not . He died a different way , many years later .
RICHIE DIMASO: Listen I know it 's awkward and I just want to say I 'm sorry , alright ? I think we can stick together and still fulfill ou goal . I mean , we got the Sherman Suite .
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got the whole floor ?
RICHIE DIMASO: We got the whole floor , yeah .
EDITH GREENSLY: That 's good .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yeah , you ok ?
SYDNEY PROSSER: Yeah . You ?
RICHIE DIMASO: It 's alright . I got hit a little it . My eye . It 's a little blurry ut I got drops at the pharmacy . Richie looks over to Irving .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah , I 'm good Richie looks back over to Sydney
RICHIE DIMASO: Listen , I 'm sorry .
SYDNEY PROSSER: I 'm sorry .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm sorry Irving .
EDITH GREENSLY: I do .
RICHIE DIMASO: Give me those flowers .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's right . That 's the idea .
MELORA: Congressman O'Connell is on the phone
CARMINE POLITO: I got to take this you guys everyone out please .
DOLLY POLITO: This is sad . It 's just sad .
CARMINE POLITO: Dolly please , I got ta take this .
DOLLY POLITO: Ok , sorry . Everyone out . Go out .
CARMINE POLITO: Congressman , how you doing ? It 's Carmine . Tell me you 're gon na be in Trenton this week . We have an amazing investment opportunity I 'd like to discuss with you .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm federal agent Richard Dimaso . I 've placed seventy-five thousand dollars into this briefcase fo Representative John O'Connell of the Ninth District .
CARMINE POLITO: Congressman , thank you for coming y , John
RICHIE DIMASO: How you doing congressmen ?
JOHN O'CONNELL: I 'm excited to be here .
CARMINE POLITO: This brings the state back . I mean , how long we known each other ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hotels . Restaurants . It 's waiting to happen . Carmine sees it , this fucking thing is waiting to happen .
CARMINE POLITO: The goddamn bankers . Keeping thei money on the sidelines . How we supposed to get anything done ?
JOHN O'CONNELL: Bankers only put money in the game when they can reap insane profit . Richie staring , mesmerized by this trap .
RICHIE DIMASO: The only problem is this citizenship situation . I mean , we got to expedite it as soon as possible .
JOHN O'CONNELL: Yeah , well I 'll tell you , you came to the right place . Everyone looks tense and on edge before .
CARMINE POLITO: Hey , this is going to happen .
JOHN O'CONNELL: I know that , Carmine . You 're a good man
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm federal agent Richard Dimaso . I am placing 75 thousand dollars in this brief case for one Representative Gerald Sanders of the 3rd district .
REP. SANDERS: I do n't want to do anything illegal-
CARMINE POLITO: Please Gerry . Use it as a campaign donation . Whatever you want to do . Richie slides the briefcase to him .
RICHIE DIMASO: I 'm placing g $ 60,000 into an this ief case for one Congressman Eric Keshoygan of the 4th district
ERIC KESHOYGAN: I 'm going to do what I can to help Carmine . Irv watches in pain as he sits with them .
RICHIE DIMASO: A $ 100,000 into this briefcase fo two term United States Senato Horton Mitchell of New Jersey . A distinguished silver haired Senator , older .
HORTON MITCHELL: Atlantic City . All the way down the shore . A mecca by the sea .
CARMINE POLITO: One small thing we do for this man is a huge thing we do for the people of New Jersey . This is what we can leave behind .
RICHIE DIMASO: Where you going ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I just got ta go see a man about a dog .
CARMINE POLITO: I appreciate this . On my family . On my kids . This needs to happen . It 's got ta happen . You 've got my word Irving walks out of the room
IRVING ROSENFELD: I want to save us . I want to save Carmine . It 's fucking killing me .
SYDNEY PROSSER: You know the only way to help Carmine is through the Tellegio thing .
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's dangerous . We got ta get a wire in there . We got ta make him feel safe .
SYDNEY PROSSER: There 's only one thing that can eally fuck this up and that 's you wife .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yep .
PETE MUSANE: I do n't like your husband . You 're no good together . He does n't appreciate you . Hey , it happens . It happened in my marriage . That 's why I went to Miami . Sometimes you just got ta be tough . You got ta stand up and you got ta leave , you know ? Rosalyn looks at Pete smitten .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I know . I mean , I do n't want to admouth my husband , but let me admouth my husband for a second . He just thinks that he knows everything and he 's so full of shit . He 's such a liar . He thinks that I 'm stupid , but I 'm not stupid . I hear him on the phone arguing . He loves Carmine , but he hates that other guy , that curly- headed I.R.S . guy , or whateve who 's carting around my husband 's ex-lover , that redheaded whore .
PETE MUSANE: IRS ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Anyway . You can see that it drives him crazy .
PETE MUSANE: You said IRS . What IRS guy ? What are you talking bout ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I hear them on the phone . I think that he 's got Irv in some sort of ind or something and he 's making him do all of this stuff and so Irv and Carmine right now are at the Plaza Hotel throwing away all this money at like Congress or whatever . They 're giving money to congress o something . I do n't really know but I overheard it on the phone .
PETE MUSANE: You know I hate to do this to you ut I have to go talk to you husband . My boss is already angry . You stay here I 'm going to give you some money for a taxi home . He puts cash in her hands .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I do n't like change . It 's really hard for me . Sometimes I think that I 'll die before I change . He kisses her .
PETE MUSANE: It 's gon na be okay . You 're gon na come live with me in Miami . Pete gets up and walks . As he does
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Life is ridiculous and I would never say anything bad about you father in front of you but you father is a sick son of a bitch .
DANNY: Daddy 's a sick son of a bitch ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Do n't repeat that . But yes .
PETE MUSANE: What 's this I hear about your curly haired friend working for the Government ?
CARMINE POLITO: What ? ! Who said that ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's bullshit !
PETE MUSANE: Your wife . Irving is surprised to hear this .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's bullshit .
CARMINE POLITO: Rosalyn ?
CARMINE POLITO: Hey , what the fuck ? !
PETE MUSANE: Shut up . Shut the fuck up .
IRVING ROSENFELD: ARE YOU HAPPY NOW ? BECAUSE HE IS TRYING TO KILL ME !
ROSALYN: What are you talking about ? !
IRVING ROSENFELD: WHAT ARE YOU DOING ? WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU 'RE DOING ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Get out of here ! I 'm not doing anything !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You 're a real sick son of a bitch for screaming at me like that in front of Danny .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: STOP TALKING LIKE THAT !
IRVING ROSENFELD: He 's a mobster alright ? That 's who you 're dealing with .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Alright fine ! Yes , I wanted to hurt you but how do you think that I feel all day when you leave me alone all day ? And all I 've eve wanted is for you to love me . That 's all I ever wanted . And stay married and for you to love me . And that 's why I 'm going to Miami !
IRVING ROSENFELD: You 're NOT going to Miami .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: That 's why I 'm going to Miami with Pete !
IRVING ROSENFELD: You are NOT going to Miami .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I finally found somebody who loves me just like YOU always wanted .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Too dangerous . Miami ? Not now . Too dangerous .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: He likes me just the way I am .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Not now . Everything has to stay normal right now . And you 're going to shut your mouth !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You told me that you wanted me to find a nice quiet man !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Oh and what a DOOZY you picked !
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: He 's the one .
IRVING ROSENFELD: He 's the most dangerous guy ever .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 've got a plan .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: What 's happening ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 've got a plan .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You 've got a plan ? When did you get it ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: It really fucking came to me when I was inside of that canvas bag with your boyfriend 's hands around my throat . That 's when it really came to me .
CARMINE POLITO: Take it off ! Take the bag off his head !
IRVING ROSENFELD: We 've got two million coming this week !
PETE MUSANE: What do you think this is ? You think this is a fucking down payment plan ? Like were Sears of Chevrolet ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You ask Victor if he wants two million this week . That 's real money . Two million .
PETE MUSANE: Two million ? How ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Wired in .
CARMINE POLITO: Is it true ? Is it true what he said about your wife ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's not fucking true . That 's not true .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I knew it . I have always said , Irving , that you are very , very hard to motivate properly . And I knew that Pete was gon na go ove there and knock some sense into you . I 've been reading this book , Irving . It 's by Wayne Dyer , about the power of intention .
IRVING ROSENFELD: OK . Thank you , Rosalyn . Thank you for the plan .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: You 're welcome .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I appreciate that . So , I think that we should be partners on this .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'm a good partner . Almost bette than Edith . You ever think about that ? You ever think about how you might have underestimated me ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: So what is our plan ? Tell me the plan . What are you gon na do ?
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'm going to keep my mouth shut and I 'm not going to say anything but what do I do if Pete calls me ? What am I supposed to say ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: You got ta stop talking about you government agencies and your I.R.S . and your tax and your conspiracies and all of that . You 're gon na say how you were wrong , you were wrong about that .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: I 'll tell Pete that I was wrong but you know that in real life , I was ight for saying all that stuff ecause then that spurred on the actions that made you come up with this plan . So I will tell Pete .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: The power of intention Irving . The power of intention .
IRVING ROSENFELD: OK. You were right .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Irving , I 've been doing a lot of thinking and you need to grow up . And you need to face the facts . And I think that both of us will be a lot happier if we get a divorce .
IRVING ROSENFELD: OK .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Just think about it . These things are never easy . Irving starts walking away towards the door .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Alright .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Irving . Good luck with your plan .
ALFONSE SIMONE: Alfonse Simone .
EDITH GREENSLY: Edith Greensly .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Irving Rosenfeld .
RICHIE DIMASO: Good afternoon .
ALFONSE SIMONE: Please , be seated .
RICHIE DIMASO: Where is Mr. Tellegio ?
ALFONSE SIMONE: Mr. Tellegio unfortunately was called out of town on business .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's not good . We were willing to come here today , in person , to see Mr. Tellegio , as a sign of respect to give two million dollars
ALFONSE SIMONE: I can assure you that I have the power of attorney
RICHIE DIMASO: Excuse me . If you 'll let me finish , we are willing to give two million dollars today of the ten . But without Mr. Tellegio here
IRVING ROSENFELD: We ca n't , we ca n't make that decision . It 's not the right thing . It 's not the right time . It 's just not good .
EDITH GREENSLY: You do n't have the authorization to make this kind of choice so do n't e hasty , alright ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 'm not being hasty . It 's just , let 's be smart about it . This is not how we do business . I 'm sorry . I apologize .
RICHIE DIMASO: He 's right , we ca n't .
EDITH GREENSLY: I think you should hang in there .
RICHIE DIMASO: For what ? The guy 's not here .
IRVING ROSENFELD: He is n't .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's it . He stands , goes to the door .
IRVING ROSENFELD: This is a surprise . The Sheik does n't like surprises .
EDITH GREENSLY: Do n't leave .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Edith , this is not your decision to make .
EDITH GREENSLY: I understand but maybe we can call the Sheik . Let 's call the Sheik .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's not the plan . That 's not the
RICHIE DIMASO: No , let 's I 'll call the Sheik . Can I use your phone ?
ALFONSE SIMONE: Please do .
RICHIE DIMASO: I do n't know if he 's in , I 'll call the Sheik . But before I do , I 'd like to go over specifically what this money will be used for .
ALFONSE SIMONE: What we will do is we guarantee all proper licenses and construction permits for any hotel casino that plans to open before the end of the year .
RICHIE DIMASO: What if there are obstacles , what will you do ?
ALFONSE SIMONE: Obstacles ? We are prepared to overcome any obstacles .
RICHIE DIMASO: This is a big enterprise .
ALFONSE SIMONE: If we have to pay somebody off , we 'll pay somebody off . If we have to lean on somebody , intimidate somebody , we 'll intimidate somebody . We 're experienced . This is our business .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's powerful stuff . Thank you .
ALFONSE SIMONE: And I 'll tell you something else . At the end of this we 'll teach you how to skim and how to cut it up and make some money on the side . Because we invented skimming . We 've een doing it for thirty years . A smile creeps across Richie 's face .
RICHIE DIMASO: Thank you . Thank you for clarifying that . Richie picks up the phone to dial .
ANTHONY AMADO: This is the Sheik .
RICHIE DIMASO: Mr. Tellegio is not here . It 's just Mr. Alfonse Simone , his lawyer . Are we still ok to wire the money ?
ALFONSE SIMONE: Simone can take the money . What 's the number ?
RICHIE DIMASO: 5317AP
BRENDA: The funds have been transferred .
ANTHONY AMADO: The funds have been transferred . Amado nods victory . BACK TO
RICHIE DIMASO: The money 's been wired .
ALFONSE SIMONE: I think we have a deal .
RICHIE DIMASO: Yes we do sir .
ALFONSE SIMONE: Pleasure doing business with you .
RICHIE DIMASO: Okay , well , thank you very much , Mr. Simone .
ALFONSE SIMONE: I 'm sure that we 'll be seeing each other . Richie and team start to walk out .
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh I 'm sure we 'll be seeing each other very soon . You may even get sick of me , like these two .
ALFONSE SIMONE: I do n't think I 'll get sick of you . Nice meeting you .
ANTHONY AMADO: We 're ambitious , that 's why !
RICHIE DIMASO: Shh , shh , shh !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I got ta do it .
CARMINE POLITO: What do you mean , there 's no sheik ? What does that mean , `` there 's no sheik '' ? What does that mean ? Carmine stares at Irving .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I want to face you like a man ecause I want to be real now .
CARMINE POLITO: Who is `` they '' ? Irving looks distressed . He 's a wreck .
IRVING ROSENFELD: It 's the Feds .
CARMINE POLITO: The Feds ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yeah .
CARMINE POLITO: Irving I 'm a good person
IRVING ROSENFELD: You are !
CARMINE POLITO: I 've been doing this for a long time , for twenty years . Do you think I woulda taken that money if it was n't the right thing to do ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Hey look , you 're a good person I know that but in all honesty
CARMINE POLITO: You said that was the only way , Irv . You chased me , remember ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: They fuckin ' made me do it . What was I supposed to do ? They had Syd in jail .
CARMINE POLITO: You made me go back to the Plaza to take that money , you piece of shit ! I was gone ! You fucking prick !
DOLLY POLITO: Is everything alright ? Can I have a word with you ?
CARMINE POLITO: No , please , Dolly , just go upstairs . Take the kids and go upstairs !
DOLLY POLITO: Alright , alright .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I want to make this right . I came here because I want to make it ight . Irving is in tears . Very upset .
CARMINE POLITO: Look at my face . You tell me that I 'm lying to you when I say that everything I do is for the good of the people of New Jersey . Everything I do is for them . Am I lying to you ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I never had a friend like you efore .
CARMINE POLITO: I used that money for the goddamn casino .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I got some leverage , alright ? I can help you out .
CARMINE POLITO: This is all shit . It 's all ullshit .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Carmine , Syd and I got a plan fo you . We can help you out .
CARMINE POLITO: Please get out of my house , Irving . Will you please leave ? I 'm asking you nicely , please leave .
DOLLY POLITO: Get out of our house !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I do n't want to I 'm sorry . I did n't mean for this to happen .
CARMINE POLITO: This is not our friend !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Truly , I did n't mean for this to happen .
CARMINE POLITO: This is what matters to me most and you 're crushing it ! You 're going to take me away from them you fucking son of a bitch ? Get the fuck out !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I just want to make it right .
CARMINE POLITO: Get out of my house . Look what you made me do !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 'm sorry Carmine , I 'm sorry .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Irving !
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 've got to lay down .
SYDNEY PROSSER: Just rest . She gets in and closes the door .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yes . They stare at each other .
ANTHONY AMADO: Please . Come in . Sit down . They all sit .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Two million ? It 's with Victor Tellegio and Alfonse Simone .
ANTHONY AMADO: No , actually it 's not with Victo Tellegio or Alfonse Simone .
RICHIE DIMASO: He fucking knows about it .
ANTHONY AMADO: It 's gone missing . Did you know that ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Where 's it gone ?
ANTHONY AMADO: That 's interesting that you said that because while you were on you way over here , we got an anonymous phone call from someone who said that in exchange for immunity fo the two of you and a reduced sentence for Carmine Polito we get our two million dollars back .
IRVING ROSENFELD: That 's interesting . That 's very interesting . I have no idea .
ANTHONY AMADO: No idea ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: No idea what you 're talking about .
ANTHONY AMADO: I got it . I understand how these deals are made . See , someone has leverage .
RICHIE DIMASO: Anthony , fuck them . It 's over . We got them for wire fraud , it 's over . You 're done . You 're both done .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I do n't think so .
RICHIE DIMASO: Oh , you do n't think so ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: Richard , think about it , YOU equested the two million . And you gave Brenda the account number . We did n't do any of that . None of it . How do we know that YOU do n't have the money ?
RICHIE DIMASO: Am I living in a fucking nightmare ight now ?
IRVING ROSENFELD: I find this a little offensive . Really , I find this a little offensive and I do n't see that you got any sort of solid case against
RICHIE DIMASO: Do n't let him get in your heads . Listen to me , we 're dealing with a very clever individual .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Richard , think about it . You got some big arrests . You got U.S . Congressmen . You look good . You 're gon na be all over the news . You know what does n't look good ? A story about gross incompetence
RICHIE DIMASO: I have a warrant for
SYDNEY PROSSER: You lost two million dollars of taxpayer money because you were confused about the location and the identity of Victor Tellegio 's attorney ?
ED MALONE: Alfonse Simone .
EDITH GREENSLY: People believe what they want to elieve Richie .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's because you conned me ! You oth fucking conned me . You both got under me . You did !
IRVING ROSENFELD: Well that does n't sound so good , either . I mean and I do n't know what you 're talking about , but let 's just assume you want to go with that story . Really ? That 's the story you want to go with ? That 's what you want the New York Times to hear ? That you got conned by the very con men who you forced to entrap the members of Congress in the first place . That 's what you want to go with ? That does n't sound so good for your whole thing . Richie looks like he 's going to be sick .
RICHIE DIMASO: That 's what I was trying to go after .
IRVING ROSENFELD: I 'm sorry to tell you , you got none of 'em .
STODDARD THORSEN: You know , Richard , I think we may call you as a witness , but otherwise you 're done . I think you etter go home . Richie disoriented , appeals to Stoddard .
RICHIE DIMASO: Stoddard
STODDARD THORSEN: Go on home , Richard .
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: The car is a little dinged up and I 'm a little stiff but I do n't want to talk about it . Irving stares at Rosalyn .
PETE MUSANE: You know my boss knows you did him a solid .
IRVING ROSENFELD: Yes I did . He never took a nickle so they ca n't get him for nothing . I was never going to let that happen . Irving starts to leave
ROSALYN ROSENFELD: Irv .
JOLIE: All my life , my parents have told me I 'm smart and talented . That I can be anything I wan na be when I grow up . Getting into the West Branch Magnet Program was supposed to be some kinda honor . They probly thought I 'd grow up to be a doctor , or a lawyer , or scientist that cures cancer and junk . I mean fo me school has always been a breeze .
COACH: That was terrible .
HENRIETTA: Do you think you 're gon na make varsity ? Jolie drops his controller and tears up .
JOLIE: I support you no matter what . But I ca n't be changin ' no diapers . Henrietta looks defeated . Jolie pauses Sonic . Curls up with her .
HENRIETTA: Not now Jolie .
JOLIE: I think you look more beautiful like this than anything . I wish you could be this way forever . We 'd be so happy like this .
MR. AARONSON: Hey .
JOLIE: You got my check ?
MR. AARONSON: Shit man , those hours really add up , hun ?
JOLIE: I guess .
MR. AARONSON: What a mess So , how do you think she 's doing ? Is she gon na pass ?
STUMBING: Uh , I do n't know . Maybe .
MR. AARONSON: I do n't get it . She was always a great student .
JOLIE: you know Geometry 's a hard thing . Algebra leads to it and if you dont get that then-
JOLIE: Yea .
MR. AARONSON: Peace out .
JOLIE: Thanks .
HAROON: Hey , can I be excused for the Million Man March ?
JOLIE: Hey , can I use the bathroom ?
HAROON: Dude , do n't they post who made the team today ?
JOLIE: Naw , not till Monday they said .
HAROON: Alright man , have a good day at school .
JOLIE: Yeah right .
HAROON: See ya .
JOLIE: Lucky bastards .
HAROON: Hey you heard Fransisco got arrested ?
FRANSISCO: I 'm innocent , this is bull shit !
HAROON: Over some pictures on the Internet . Jolie looks confused .
LAUGHS: Yea . Haroon gets up to leave .
HAROON: Yo dont forget I need my compute homework back by Monday .
JOLIE: I got you . Dont forget to get me my io homework back .
HAROON: Yea duh . The walk into the distance .
JOLIE: My great great grandfather had a song , Hallelujah I 'm a Bum . Tupac had a song , I 'd Rather Be an N.I.G.G.A. , so we can get drunk and smoke weed all day . I always thought they were really similar .
HAROON: Yo . I got ta take a massive dump , will you guard the door while I 'm in there .
JOLIE: Yea .
HAROON: I 'm taking the most epic shit . Oh ! Dude ! Do n't they post who made the team today ?
JOLIE: As a white boy at West Branch I 'm just not cool .
VO: But making the team would change my life forever . Jolie looks down the list .
JOLIE: It 's my one shot to fit in with the Maple Ave kids . To actually be somebody ! Jolie 's face brightens . Jolie walks past it and does a double take . It 's the list . CLOSE ON JOLIE 'S EYES pure intensity .
HAROON: Man , I ca n't believe you made the team . Jolie finishes his set . Pops up .
JOLIE: I was the last bama on the list ! If Francisco had n't been arrested I 'd still be a loser ! I 'd be just another Joe Shmoe Lame-oh geek in the Blair High School Magnet . CLOSE ON HAROON his face slowly falls .
HAROON: Oh Yeah . Yeah . That 's cool .
JOLIE: 2.5 's right ?
HAROON: Yeah .
JOLIE: Tupac . Biggie . Snoop Dog . Easy-E. Dr. Dre . Suge Knight . Mr. T .
JOLIE'S DAD: Alright bye . No injuries .
JOLIE: Alright , bye Dad .
JOLIE'S DAD: Hey , you back from the hill ? What happened ?
HENRIETTA: It smells like dog shit in these woods , Jolie . Why 'd you want to meet out here anyway ? Jolie chokes up .
JOLIE: Wow . That is pretty bad . It smells like a dead mouse or something .
HENRIETTA: You dont want to be seen with me do you ? Cus I 'm pregnant .
JOLIE: what ? No . Henrietta softens .
HENRIETTA: You wan na make out with me ?
JOLIE: Yea but , I ca n't . Not no more . We ca n't be hanging out any more . You understand though right ?
HENRIETTA: Why ?
JOLIE: Henrietta , I told you . I made the asketball team . I 'm a Blazer now . Henrietta looks crest fallen .
VOICE OVER: I felt bad but , Jolie darts up the hill - basketball in hand .
VOICE OVER: I guess .
ARIUS: Now it comes with two free controllers and the game .
JOLIE: Oh yeah .
ARIUS: Yeah . We were playing that joint at my place and one of the cheerleaders was all confessing how cute she thinks you are .
EXCITED: Which one ?
ARIUS: ( points to the cheerleade
BENCH: Christine Ortanyez .
COACH DALE: Jolie ! Jolie flinches .
HAROON: Come on man , we 've got ta nail the Marion Barry skit tomorrow or I 'm gon na get a B in English .
JOLIE: I do n't feel like it . I told you .
HAROON: Dude , it 's was just a preseason game , come on .
JOLIE: Man , if I ca n't get in when we 're up thirty in the preseason then I 'm never gon na play .
HAROON: He tried to put you in the game .
JOLIE: Yeah , for thirty seconds . There 's a knock on the door . Jolie wipes a teary eye and straights up .
ELLIOTT: Three . Two .
PUMP FAKE: One . Elliott dunks and freezes in mid air .
ELLIOTT: Come on , Haroon . Let 's get you home .
JOLIE: Already ? Haroon follows him down the steps .
HAROON: Elliott , will you go over this skit with me . I think you 'll really like it and I need to practice or I 'm gon na get a B in There voices fade into silence .
HENRIETTA: I knew you 'd be back .
JOLIE: Because you know I love you . Jolie kissed her with lots of tongue .
HENRIETTA: Whatever .
JOLIE: What ? Jolie smiles .
HENRIETTA: You promise .
JOLIE: I promise to God .
HENRIETTA: Are you gon na help take care of my aby ?
JOLIE: I 'd do anything for you .
HENRIETTA: Wait . I want you to know There 's some stuff . I feel like you 're the only one I can trust , the only one I can talk too . Like about when I an away , and let those kids take photos of me . I could n't tell anyone but you . You know that ight ?
JOLIE: I know . They were just photos . Everyone makes mistakes . Henrietta caresses his face and they kiss .
VOICE OVER: Jolie 's stupid . He 'll believe anything . But I like him . I 've been failing algebra just so he can tutoring me .
CHRISTINE: Hey Jolie . Have you seen this article ?
JOLIE: What ? No . Lem me see .
CHRISTINE: I heard he got arrested because him and a bunch of other kids banged that pregnant girl Henrietta for a dollar or something .
DISTURBED: That 's a rumor , duh . They just took photos .
CHRISTINE: How do you know ? Were you there ?
JOLIE: I heard .
ARIUS: Jolie . I heard your old girl is a straight chicken-head .
JOLIE: Who ?
ARIUS: You have n't heard ?
JOLIE: I 'm not with that girl man . I just tutor her in Algebra .
ARIUS: Chill brother . I 'm just saying MR. APPLEBAUM overhears this .
MR. APPLEBAUM: What are you boys buzzing about ? Maple Ave this.. Maple Ave that..
ARIUS: You can take the niggas out the ghetto but you ca n't take the ghetto out the niggas .
MR. APPLEBAUM: Come on Arius . I know you 've got somewhere to be .
CHRISTINE: Jolie , are n't you headed to computer class ?
JOLIE: What ? Yeah .
CHRISTINE: Is everything alright ? You look kind of stunned or something .
JOLIE: What ? No . I just . The sun was in my eyes .
CHRISTINE: Oh .
JOLIE: What 's up ?
CHRISTINE: I am totally struggling with my program this month , do you think I could look at your code ?
JOLIE: My programming skills are n't that good . But we can copy Haroon 's code and just change the variable names .
CHRISTINE: Really ?
JOLIE: Yea .
CHRISTINE: Cool . Thanks . Christine gives Jolie a hug .
HENRIETTA: Hey , can I bum a cigarette ?
HAROON: Dude , Christine 's been jocking you nuts lately . What 's up with that ?
JOLIE: I do n't know man . I think she 's into me .
ANYA: She 's probably just using you fo my code .
HAROON: It happens to me all the time .
ANYA: You wish .
HAROON: Even if she does like you dude , you 'd have to be loco to get with her .
VLAD: That 's nothing . Ray 's been suspended three times . They found a gun in his locker . And he has no lood parents . You do n't want that kind of sloppy seconds . It 's big trouble .
JOLIE: Hmmm .
VLAD: You would be the man , though . I 'd give you that .
HAROON: Yea , that 's true . You would be the man .
ANYA: Why ? What does that have to do with anything ? All the boys roll there eyes .
CHRISTINE: You guys have the late practice today , huh ?
JOLIE: Yeah .
CHRISTINE: Well Coach Dale asked me to tape the next game - you wan na see the camera we 're using ? It 's in the small gym .
JOLIE: Oh yeah . All the way past C hall .
CHRISTINE: Come on . I know a short cut through parenting class .
JOLIE: Through parenting class ? Let 's just go the long way .
CHRISTINE: Come on . Do n't be such a goody goody . The teacher does n't care . Trust me . She 's like a hundred years old , she gets it . It 's just an excuse to have free baby sitters for all the teen moms . And that 's a good thing . She grabs his hand and leads him .
JOLIE: I just tutor her in Algebra . You know how we need community service hours to graduate , well
CHRISTINE: Stand in front of this . God that feels good .
VOICE OVER: The season had n't even started and my life had changed forever .
VOICE OVER: I swear , exactly when we kissed someone yelled score .
RAY: Shut your hole !
VOICE OVER: It felt like a million bucks .
VOICE OVER: I felt guilty cuz of Henrietta , but as Tu Pac says , `` Only God can judge me . ''
VOICE OVER: I did wonder if Henrietta 's Dad , Mr. Aaronson , even knew she was pregnant .
VOICE OVER: But for some reason it just neve came up . Jolie ducks into the stairwell . Then all the lights go out . Blackness . Hold .
OFF CAMERA: Would someone please stop messing around and put the lights on . This league is for serious players only .
RAY: Boom ! Step aside , nigga .
HAROON: ( cringing in pain , almost
CRYING: Oww , man . I think you broke my wrist .
RAY: Tell your boy Jolie to lay off my girl Christine . Every time he makes a move on her I 'm gon na eat you ass for lunch .
HAROON: What ? Why me ?
ZEKE: Hey , are there anymore Handi-Snacks or did you take the last one ? The doorbell rings .
HAROON: Dude , before I show you this internet stuff at my Mom 's place we got ta talk about this Raymond situation . Ray said he 's gon na eat my ass for lunch every time you mess with Christine .
JOLIE: Yea he 's just afraid to step to me directly because he knows varsity has my back . Do n't stress though . He 's just a bully . Haroon open the door to
HAROON: Do n't stress ? He broke my arm man . How is anything under control ?
JOLIE: Ray is just a bully . All you have to do is hold your ground a little probably .
HAROON: What ? Are you serious ? He blind sided me . How am I supposed to hold my ground ?
JOLIE: Come on dude , is n't that why you always carry that Batman figure around ?
HAROON: What ?
JOLIE: Because Batman 's the only superhero that is just a regular guy .
HAROON: Batman is a cartoon . This TOY is for inspiration . We 're talking about real life . Are you loco ?
JOLIE: Fine , then just stay close to me and the team will get your back , I swear .
HAROON: Pinky swear . No leaving me behind at lunch now that you 're all tight with the team or nothing .
JOLIE: Done .
HAROON: Cool . Now let 's conquor titen again . I think we can break the high score .
ZEKE: Seriously .
WENDEL: What 's up ?
JOLIE: Hey .
ARIUS: What 's up Jolie .
JOLIE: What 's up ?
MERLY: What 's up ? What 's up with you ?
JOLIE: What 's up ?
CODROY: What 's up ?
JOLIE: What 's up ?
SURGIO: Chillen .
WENDEL: Peace , nigger . Jolie pauses for a second then half smiles .
JOLIE: See man . Ray ca n't mess with us now . We 're rolling too deep .
HAROON: ( dons his sombrero , spreading a genuine
SMILE: Yea . I guess your right . Junio year 's actually gon na be cool . And I love spirit week . Merly , did you ing a hat for hat day ?
MERLY: Yea .
JOLIE: Yea . No prob .
HAROON: Cool man .
MERLY: You want my spot ?
HAROON: Ummm . Naw . Naw . I 'm cool .
MERLY: You sure ?
JOLIE: Jump in the trunk dude . It 's not far .
HAROON: You think so ?
MERLY: That 's rediculous . Let 's just bring you back something ? What do you want ?
HAROON: Uh . Just like a couple burritos . Here 's a ten ?
MERLY: No worries . I got you .
HAROON: Oh thanks man .
MERLY: No prob .
JOLIE: I 'll bring you some cinnamon twists too !
MERLY: The cops just followed us from the left turn only lane .
ARIUS: I knew it . Did you see his face ?
MERLY: That dude is always messing with us .
WENDEL: He 's still dealing nickel bags I et .
ARIUS: Naw man . It 's because of that video . The Maple Ave thingthe one with Jolie 's girl Henrietta .
JOLIE: She 's not my girl .
ARIUS: That 's not what she said before she started sucking everyone 's dicks Do n't believe me . Y'all can see the
PRINCIPAL GANUS: Arius . This is your fifth detention this semester . That means in-school suspension for the week . Starting now .
ARIUS: What ! ? Did you hear what happened to us ? We got harrassed by the cops man !
JOLIE: Come on man . Coast is clear .
SECURITY GUARD: Wendel ! Get your ass over hear .
WENDEL: What ? What about Jolie ?
SECURITY GUARD: He 's in the magnet program . His teacher will handle it . Jolie does n't dare look back .
VOICE OVER: And just like that , with Marley arrested and Arius doing in-school , I might just get some playing time ?
HAROON: I thought you said Ray was n't gon na mess with me man ?
JOLIE: Woah . Dude . Are you alright ?
HAROON: Do I look alright ?
JOLIE: I 'm sorry man .
HAROON: That 's all you got ?
JOLIE: No . Come on man .
HAROON: YOu said I just had to hold my ground .
JOLIE: Well at least you 've still got you teeth .
HAROON: You 're an asshole .
JOLIE: Let me get you back . Come to the movies with me tonight dude . The new Ice Tea flick is out . The tickets on me . Coke , popcorn , the whole nine . Haroon rolls his eyes and shakes his head .
HAROON: The whole nine ? It 's a movie .
JOLIE: It 's an Ice Tea flick and it 's gon na be tight as a mug . Haroon looks disgusted and offended .
HENRIETTA: You know I saw you with that Cheerleader .
JOLIE: Come on . Enough with that . I washed my hands already . So I can please you .
HENRIETTA: Just tell me yall are hooking up . It 's OK if you are . I just want the truth .
JOLIE: You want the truth . How is this ?
ASHAMED: Yeah . Francisco got arrested . What about it ?
JOLIE: I thought you said you did n't fuck any of them .
HENRIETTA: I did n't .
JOLIE: Did you suck their dicks ?
HENRIETTA: Jolie . It 's none of your fucking usiness .
JOLIE: Well everyone at school says you did . And now they 're saying there 's a video and that 's why Francisco and Merly got arrested .
HENRIETTA: They 're not arrested . They got questioned and shit and then they got suspended .
JOLIE: How do you know ?
HENRIETTA: Because I hear all the Maple Ave stuff .
HAROON: Shhh . It 's getting good you know . Henrietta and Jolie whisper more quietly .
HENRIETTA: Look , that 's all beside the point . Whatever you heard about me at school , they do n't know shit . It 's a lie . I already told you . I ran away from home . That 's it . Now leave me alone .
JOLIE: Why did you let them take pictures ?
HENRIETTA: I told you . I needed money .
JOLIE: For what ?
HENRIETTA: Duh , an abortion . Does that make you feel better . But I decided I want this baby Jolie . I want a real family . So I went to Pizza Hut fo dinner instead . The one on University Boulevard , do you want a eceipt or something ?
JOLIE: Where did you sleep that night ?
HENRIETTA: I told you . I slept at the ATM machine . Now stop it .
JOLIE: Dang . I know . I 'm sorry . I 'm such an idiot .
HENRIETTA: But I love you . I just want to be with you now . And put all that in the past .
JOLIE: Why did n't you come to me then ?
HENRIETTA: We had just met .
JOLIE: I know . Damn it . You could have slept on my couch , easy . My parents would n't have even cared . We hear a killing on the screen . They kiss .
HENRIETTA: Jolie . No .
JOLIE: You lied to me .
HENRIETTA: I did n't . I would never .
JOLIE: How do I know ?
HENRIETTA: Do n't you trust me ?
ANONOMOUS MAN: ( O.C . yelling at the
SCREEN: Do n't mess with his boy ? You 're gon na get it now ! Un-hun !
JOLIE: Haroon and I better get going . We got ta finish our Magnet project fo
HENRIETTA: Jolie , my Dad is picking us up . I thought you were gon na help me study ?
JOLIE: I would but I ca n't . This is like the biggest project of the year .
HENRIETTA: I have a huge test tomorrow and if I do n't pass this class I have to go to summer school .
JOLIE: I know but Mr. Donaldson just assigned a huge thing-
HENRIETTA: Haroon . Would you mind letting me talk to Jolie in private ?
JOLIE: What are you talking about ? Henrietta rolls her eyes and looks upset .
HENRIETTA: Jolie . I saw Christine was all ove you at school .
JOLIE: She 's just like that . She 's a cheerleader .
HENRIETTA: Tell me something . What do you eally want to do with your life ?
JOLIE: What do I want to do ?
HENRIETTA: Why do you repeat everything I say ?
JOLIE: What do I wan na do ? I mean , you know that , right ?
HENRIETTA: You 're five-eight .
JOLIE: Spud Web was five seven .
HENRIETTA: Jolie .
JOLIE: What ?
MR. AARONSON: So what 's happening kids ? Haroon said you guys were talking about important stuff ?
HENRIETTA: Dad , we 're fucking studying here ! Do you mind ?
MR. AARONSON: In the parking lot ? I just wanted to see if you guys needed anything . I made Rice Krispy treats . They 're still hot . He showcases a saran wrapped tray .
HENRIETTA: Dad , have you seen how fucking fat I am ! ?
MR. AARONSON: Henrietta . Just because you do n't want any does n't mean Jolie does n't . Tutoring is hard work , after all .
TO JOLIE: I tutored high school kids in Oakland in the 60 's , and -
HENRIETTA: Dad , we all know the story of you saving kids in the ghetto , ok ?
MR. AARONSON: Jolie , are you hungry ?
JOLIE: UH-
HENRIETTA: Jolie 's bailing , Dad . Come on . Henrietta hops into the Van .
MR. AARONSON: Oh . Well . That 's cool . That 's cool .
JOLIE: I 'm really sorry , Mr. Aaronson , but-
HENRIETTA: Dad . Just drive please .
MR. AARONSON: No worries , Jolie . Catch you later .
HAROON: So you 've been tutoring her in Algebra and that 's it ?
JOLIE: Yea .
HAROON: Whatever man .
JOLIE: What ?
HAROON: I was sitting right there .
JOLIE: So ?
HAROON: So man . I saw what was going on . I 'm not an idiot . Jolie is silent .
JOLIE: What ? I thought we were gon na play street fighter ?
HAROON: I can play dune at home on my PC .
JOLIE: What are you scared I 'm gon na smoke you like a blunt again ?
HAROON: You wish . You ca n't touch my skills .
JOLIE: I 'd turn you into a straight dikfor .
HAROON: What the hell is a dikfor ?
JOLIE: You do n't know what a dick 's for ! ? You fucking homo-thug !
HAROON: Oww ! Dude , you 're pealing off my scab . Get off me ! You know you 've een a real jerk lately .
JOLIE: Damn , Ray really smashed your face did n't he ?
HAROON: I think you 're an asshole for lying to Henrietta and Christine .
JOLIE: I never lied to them . The metro rumbles to a stop .
CONT: I love them both . Haroon exits .
COACH DALE: Kiss ! Can anyone tell me what KISS stands for ?
JOLIE: Uh , Keep it simple stupid .
COACH DALE: Why are you mumbling ? Speak up .
JOLIE: Keep it simple stupid .
COACH DALE: That 's right . Keep it simple stupid . The team stares blankly .
BEAT: Kiss .
JOLIE: Arius , man . When can I see the VHS tape you mentioned ?
ARIUS: What ? Oh , it got erased . Did n't you hear the cops are on to the whole thing ?
JOLIE: Yeah , but-
ARIUS: Man , Francisco is in the papers . You have n't seen ? ( turns and tugs at a
CHEERLEADER: Come here , girl . Sit on my lap . Wendel lights a cig .
JOLIE: Henrietta did n't really fuck any of them , did she ? I mean she was just posing nude for some photos , right ?
WENDEL: Well , they just paid her to do a little strip tease or whatever but things escalated .
JOLIE: How can it just escalate ?
WENDEL: How did World War 2 escalate ? It just did . Someone pulled out his junk teasing her , and then she started messing around with he tongue on his balls , just laughing and stuff . And it just went from there .
JOLIE: Dude ? If this is a psych , you got me . OK ? Just tell me the truth .
WENDEL: I 'm not lying . I 'm dead serious . You can see for yourself .
JOLIE: It got erased I thought .
WENDEL: The original did . But Arius has a copy . Jolie tugs on his underarm hair , worried . They look over at Arius who is daydreaming .
TO HIMSELF: Booooom .
WENDEL: Arius ! Arius snaps out of it .
ARIUS: The doctors said I was crazy so they took a little piece of my ain out .
WENDEL: No they did n't .
ARIUS: Yes they did . Look . Arius shows off the top of his head
JOLIE: Damn .
ARIUS: See how soft it is ?
JOLIE: Yeah .
ARIUS: Come by Coach Dales office tomorrow at 3 o'clock .
ARIUS: Arright y'all .
HAROON: B minus ! ? Are you serious ?
MR. APPLEBAUM: Watch the language Miste Mochtarzada .
HAROON: Did you even read this shit ?
MR. APPLEBAUM: Thin ice Haroon .
HAROON: Come on Mr. Applebaum ? The whole undercover hooker bust opening in this thing is genius .
MR. APPLEBAUM: It 's not accurate Haroon . The OJ trial did n't begin until long afte the Marion Barry bust .
HAROON: Duh . Everybody knows that . It 's not an Encyclopedia . It 's a story .
MR. APPLEBAUM: Haroon . This is a current events history class . I think you missed the point of the assignment .
HAROON: I think you missed the point of the story ! The events were mixed up ecause the character is mixed up . You think I do n't know -
MR. APPLEBAUM: Enough ! Stunned , Haroon walks back to his desk .
HAROON: fucking idiot
MR. APPLEBAUM: Detention . Today .
HAROON: Fucking dick-face man , it 's not fair !
JOLIE: Shit man . I 'm sorry dude . You deserved an A . It was tight as a mug .
HAROON: Do n't placate me asshole . You did n't even read it like you said you would . Haroon holds up his cast .
ARIUS: Look , look , look . Look . Right here , I told you . Ad-lib hollers . Some laugh .
TO JOLIE: Damn .
JOLIE: Aw , man .
ARIUS: Hold up , I got ta rewind to the funny part .
CHRISTINE: What a slut ! That 's that girl you tutor right ?
STUNNED: Yea . Henrietta Aaronson .
ARIUS: I told you ! I told you ! I told you !
BEAT: Lem me see them shits again .
ARIUS: When he grabs her tits it looks like he 's assessing a race horse . He 's like - lem me check out this specimen . Everyone laughs but Jolie .
HENRIETTA: He 'd knock me out for the rest of my life .
ARIUS: Pause it . Pause it . Pause it . Look . Right there . That 's Francisco in the back .
CHRISTINE: Coach Dale is coming . I 'm serious . He 's coming now .
COACH DALE: No weightroom today guys , we got some studying to do . This is a copy of last years Springbrook game . Get comfortable , this could be a while . The cheerleaders gather themselves .
BEAT: Jolie ?
ARIUS: He shot on the first pass of a half court set .
COACH DALE: Are you Jolie ?
ARIUS: Do I look like white to you ? Beat .
COACH DALE: How does it feel ?
ARIUS: Owwww . My arm .
COACH DALE: How does it feel ?
ARIUS: Ah . Ah . Ah .
COACH DALE: Look in my eyes . How does it feel ?
ARIUS: Ahhhhhh !
COACH DALE: If I ever see you back away from a ebound again I 'm gon na bench you for the season . You wont play one second the whole year . You got that oy ?
ARIUS: Ahhhhh !
HENRIETTA: Jolie , you are soaking wet . What 's going on ? Why did you want to meet here in the middle of the night ?
JOLIE: This . This tape is going on . I saw it . The whole team saw it . Henrietta is silent .
HENRIETTA: What the fuck ? Silence .
JOLIE: How could you lie to me like this ? How could you make a fool of me like this ?
HENRIETTA: How could I tell you when you neve listen ?
JOLIE: Why ? Why not ? I love you . Jolie hugs her .
HENRIETTA: Sometimes love is not enough . Jolie just looks at her . Jolie is dumb struck . Henrietta hugs him .
JOLIE: I think we should n't see each othe anymore .
HENRIETTA: I think you 're right .
JOLIE: You do ?
TEARING UP: Yeah . This time I think you 're actually right .
JOLIE: Kiss me one last time .
HENRIETTA: I never meant any of that to happen . Things just got out of control .
JOLIE: I 'll tell your Dad I 'm not you tutor anymore .
HENRIETTA: Thanks . Oh , and here . I want you to have this back . Henrietta ejects her tape from her Walkman .
JOLIE: What 's this ?
HENRIETTA: It 's Milkshake . The 95 R & B mix you gave me at our second tutoring session .
JOLIE: Oh . One of those tracks is n't even out yet though .
HENRIETTA: Yea , I know . And some are older . It 's kind of fucked up .
JOLIE: Just like us I guess .
HENRIETTA: Just like everyone .
JOLIE: Dude , I was thinking about getting some Tims .
HAROON: So what ?
JOLIE: So you have n't noticed all the kids on the team wear them ?
CHRISTINE: Duh .
HAROON: Man , with sandals you never have to tie your shoes . That 's all I 'm saying .
JOLIE: Do you have these in a size ten . And bring a what - Size 7 ? Yeah size seven for Haroon . Footlocker kid nods and goes .
HAROON: I told you , man , I do n't want Tims . I 'm a sandals guy . Like Jesus . And Muhammad .
CHRISTINE: You 'd look good in them , Haroon . You should try them on . Come on . Be cool . Haroon looks at his toes , wiggles them .
CASHIER: Anything else with that ? We see Christine slip Jolie a lot of tongue .
MR. AARONSON: Jolie .
JOLIE: Mr. Aaronson .
HENRIETTA: Dad .
MR. AARONSON: What 's up ? You kids want anything from the Bell .
JOLIE: We just ate . But thanks .
MR. AARONSON: OK , well . We 're on for this Sunday ight ?
JOLIE: Oh . Uh , Henrietta did n't tell you ? I , uh , ca n't tutor anymore .
MR. AARONSON: What ? Uh , why not ? Your Dad has n't mentioned , uh.-
JOLIE: No , it 's just , the team . Basketball is taking up so much time now is all . Getting ready for the playoffs and everything . Honestly , I 'd be so tired I would n't even be any good .
MR. AARONSON: Dang , Well are you still gon na mow the lawn at least ?
JOLIE: I could probably recommend someone . My buddy Haroon 's older brothe maybe . The car behind them in line honks loudly .
MR. AARONSON: What 's his number ? Lem me grab a pen . ( shuffling through the
GLOVE BOX: You sure you do n't want a bean urrito or anything ?
JOLIE: No . I 'm good . It's- . Honk !
HENRIETTA: Dad !
MR. AARONSON: I 'll get it from your dad . Jolie waves . Henrietta glares at Jolie as they drive off .
CHRISTINE: Wow . She really hates you o something .
JOLIE: What do you mean ?
CHRISTINE: Do n't pretend like you did n't see that evil eye she gave you .
JOLIE: What evil eye ?
CHRISTINE: You know their 's a rumor going around that you were hooking up with her ? The engine roars to life .
JOLIE: Who ? Henrietta ?
CHRISTINE: Some people even say you 're still hooking up .
JOLIE: Henrietta Aaronson ? Jolie notches up the AC a touch .
CHRISTINE: I was gon na say . Because she 's kinda pregnant .
JOLIE: I know , right . You 'd have to be twisted to get down with that .
CHRISTINE: Do you have a jimmy ?
VOICE OVER: I never had to use a condom with Henrietta .
CHRISTINE: Hurry up .
JOLIE: Dang . I do n't see one here .
CHRISTINE: What ?
JOLIE: Well maybe we can just do it a little bit .
CHRISTINE: No way . Christine rolls over . Jolie is still for a moment .
WHISPERS: I wo n't even do it . I 'll just feel it . Jolie nestles close to her . Beat . The sheets move . Christine lightly moans .
BARELY AUDIBLE: Oh . The covers begin to shuffle CLOSE ON Jolie 's closed eyes .
VOICE OVER: In my head I kept thinking about dribbling a basketball down an endless basketball court , playing point guard in the biggest game of the year . The Springbrook game .
VOICE OVER: That kept me focused so I would n't ust in about two seconds .
VOICE OVER: I was gon na pull out but
JOLIE: Uh , I better not keep going .
CHRISTINE: Oh . Fuck . Silence . Christine takes a few second to cool off .
JOLIE: Yea .
CHRISTINE: Do you ever wish you were Tu Pac ?
JOLIE: No . Do you ?
CHRISTINE: Actually yeah . Sometimes .
JOLIE: Really ? Shit , so do I . All the time .
CHRISTINE: I ca n't believe he shot those drunk cops and then the cops ' guns turned out to be-
JOLIE: So SO cool . Jolie and Christine kiss .
VOICE OVER: As the season rolled on , the Taco Hut became the spot to be . Some days I would just look around and soak it in . I could n't believe I was even here .
ARIUS: That looks like one of them locks you can just bust with your hands .
WENDEL: I do n't think so . The rack thing 's not , like , stuck down .
ARIUS: Arright ch'all . Arius walks away toward the rack .
WHISPERING: Jolie . I have to tell you something . Wan na go outside for a sec ?
JOLIE: Sure .
RAY: Dead man .
ARIUS: You 're not gon na do shit .
RAY: This aint about you .
ARIUS: Man just chill out .
RAY: Fuck you .
ARIUS: You 're just rude . That 's why you Mom beat your ass growing up .
RAY: Keep talking about my Mom nigga . I 'll smash your fucking nigga lips in .
ARIUS: Say it again .
RAY: Ah fuck man . I 'm OK . I think I 'm
ARIUS: Ah shit , man ! Ahhh ! My fucking gut is burning !
JOLIE: Holly shit . You need help . Someone call an ambulance .
HAROON: Whoa dude . That is a lot of blood . Where is he going ?
JOLIE: I dunno .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: An ambulance is on the way .
WENDEL: Who 's house ?
WHOLE TEAM: OUR HOUSE !
WENDEL: Who 's house ?
WHOLE TEAM: OUR HOUSE !
WENDEL: Who 's house ?
WHOLE TEAM: OUR HOUSE !
COACH DALE: OK , starting five . Let 's go .
WENDEL: Defense on three . One ! Two ! Three !
ANNOUNCER: Starting at point guard . Numbe twenty two . Joel `` Jolie '' Jolson .
COACH DALE: Jolie ! Get back in the game ! Take Pistol .
JOLIE: Who you got ?
ELLIOTT: That was a great move you made . You would have been on the line for two if that guy did n't injure you . Jolie pushes his food away .
JOLIE: Owwwww ! My thumb . Sharp pain just shot all the way threw my neck .
ELLIOTT: Are you alright ?
JOLIE: Yeah .
ELLIOTT: More ravioli or anything . I could microwave some more .
JOLIE: No , I 'm good .
HENRIETTA: I do n't care if I go to Summe School !
MUMBLING: You 're gon na break this thing .
MR. AARONSON: ( genuinely amazed by he
ANGER: Unbelievable .
MR. AARONSON: Shhhh . Henrietta 's shriek carries over into
ELLIOTT: The Aaronsons ? At this hour ? Should I get it ?
JOLIE: I do n't know ?
ANSWERS: Hello .
ELLIOTT: They think only you can talk he off the ledge . Jolie looks like a deer in headlights .
JOLIE: Why me ?
ELLIOTT: That 's what she said .
JOLIE: Really ? Dang .
ELLIOTT: Well she 's not literally on a ledge . Figuratively . Do you know what figuratively means ?
JOLIE: Duh . Come on , Dad . Just drive . They hop in the van .
MR. AARONSON: You do n't have to do this .
JOLIE: Do n't worry , I know how to help Henrietta get her shit together .
ELLIOTT: Jolie .
JOLIE: Dad . Come on . You know what I mean .
HENRIETTA: You really think I do n't know how to do that shit ?
JOLIE: What ?
HENRIETTA: That test is n't why I was so mad .
JOLIE: What is it then ? You can talk to me . You can tell me anything .
HENRIETTA: I was n't invited with you guys to the Tyson fight tomorrow . The one on pay TV . I heard everyone was going and I just flipped out . I mean what 's the deal ?
JOLIE: What ? You mean the Bowe fight ?
HENRIETTA: Yeah . Bowe , Tyson , whatever . The point is the whole team 's going .
JOLIE: Yeah . It 's pretty much just a team thing though .
HENRIETTA: No it 's not . Wendel , Arius , and Codroy are all bringing girls .
JOLIE: Oh . I did n't know that . Well , why do n't I just call you when I figure out what time we 're going .
HENRIETTA: Well the fight is at eight , right ? Henrietta puts her hand on his leg .
JOLIE: Is it ?
HENRIETTA: Yeah . And everyone 's going to Muhammad Ali 's Rotiserie Chicken at City Place . She slides her hand up .
JOLIE: Oh .
HENRIETTA: Yeah .
JOLIE: Well , I do n't know . You have a lot of studying .
SUDDENLY ANGRY: You know Spud Web only gets a oster spot because he 's a circus freak . He should n't be there , and that 's why he sells tickets . Do n't you get it . He 's not good , he 's just a draw . Is that what you want to be , a circus freak ?
JOLIE: He won the dunk contest . The guy 's a beast . You 're way out of you league .
HENRIETTA: The league is about making money . Jolie , the only reason you even got on varsity is because your Dad paid for the new uniforms . You neve would have made it even with Francisco getting arrested . Do n't you realize that ?
JOLIE: No he did n't .
HENRIETTA: Yes he did . They cost over two thousand dollars . How could you not know that ? I mean you made Varsity at Blair after being cut from JV last year . When have you ever seen that happen ? The news hits Jolie hard .
JOLIE: That 's not true . Where did you hea that ?
HENRIETTA: My Dad talking to your dad on the phone in the kitchen .
OFF SCREEN: Sorry . I just wanted to see if you guys needed anything .
VOICE OVER: It must have been good fo Henrietta too , because afterwords , she did n't mention joining the team to the Bowe fight , she did n't mention Christine , she didnt mention nothing .
VOICE OVER: Still though , I was worried she 'd show anyway . If she did , I did n't know what I was gon na do .
HAROON: So she was just pissed because you did n't invite her to this ?
JOLIE: Yeah .
HAROON: But it sounds like she was really freaking out . I mean you said she smashed their PC .
JOLIE: Yeah , when I first got there she did n't even have any clothes on .
HAROON: I do n't know . I mean maybe something more is going on ?
JOLIE: Yeah - the need for something . They cackle .
HAROON: You wear a condom right ?
JOLIE: I do n't have to . She 's pregnant . They laugh harder .
HAROON: Ah man . Ah man . That is crazy .
SOFTLY: Have you ever been here ?
SOFTLY: Not for a fight ?
CHRISTINE: Hey .
JOLIE: Hey .
CHRISTINE: Did you see those guys who killed Jordan 's Dad got life ?
JOLIE: Yeah . I did .
CHRISTINE: They said , if only they had seen the license plate , Airness . They
HAROON: Dude , my dad just 911-ed me .
JOLIE: When did you get a pager ? ! That is tight , dude .
HAROON: Last week . You just have n't been around that much .
WENDEL: A sucker move .
VOICE OVER: Strangely Henrietta never showed . I should have been relieved , but instead I felt awful . It was like yesterday we were in love and today she did n't even care I was with Christine .
COACH DALE: This is what it all comes down to .
SUDDENLY DISTURBED: Where 's Jolie ?
ASSISTANT COACH: He 's such a goof ball , man . This is the playoffs . Where is he at ? ! Who 's seen Jolie ? !
JOLIE: Ms. Bart . I know you 're the cheerleading coach and all , but this really better be important . I 'm supposed to be in the weight- oom by now .
CHEERLEADING COACH: You 're injured . And like I said , this is more important than any asketball game . This is life o death Jolie .
JOLIE: Christine ? Jolie steps into the shower . The Coach leaves them alone .
CHRISTINE: Jolie . I have n't had my period in three months . She sobs . Jolie gets on his knees .
JOLIE: Well , maybe you should get one of those things and check it out .
CHRISTINE: A pregnancy test ?
JOLIE: Yeah .
CHRISTINE: I did .
SHE CRIES: I 'm pregnant with your baby . She cries and shivers . Beat .
JOLIE: No worries . My Dad will let me put it on his credit card . Trust me .
CHRISTINE: Oh God . I 'm sorry .
JOLIE: No . It 's not your fault . I got ta un though . Let 's talk about this after the game , OK ? The team needs me . Christine nods but clearly wants to refuse .
CHRISTINE: What for ? You 're injured anyway .
JOLIE: I 'm ok though . I can play through it . do you understand . I just got ta do this ?
CHRISTINE: What ? I just told you I 'm pregnant with your baby . Does n't that mean anything .
JOLIE: Tonight I 'm gon na play for you and our baby . Jolie kisses her and runs off .
ASSISTANT COACH: Jolie ! Where the hell have you een ! ?
JOLIE: I got stuck with no toilet paper , coach .
ASSISTANT COACH: Damn man . This is the biggest game of the year .
JOLIE: I know . It was n't my fault . I got ta e light on my feet .
ASSISTANT COACH: You make me sick .
COACH DALE: Bring it in .
JOLIE: My hand is all better . Look .
WENDEL: Let 's go baby ! Bring it in .
TEAMMATES: Hail Mary Full of Grace , the lord is with you , blessed are you among women , and blessed is the fruit of your womb , Jesus . Holy Mary Mothe of God , pray for us sinners , now and at the hour of our death . Amen .
ARIUS: Domination baby ! Domination !
VOICE OVER: That night . I never played . None of us did . Because there never was a game . Before the opening tip even kicked it off a fight between schools broke out in the crowd . Some fired a gun twice , and all hell broke loose .
ELLIOTT: Jolie , are you OK ?
JOLIE: Yeah . Was that gun shots ?
ELLIOTT: I do n't know . Stay down just in case .
BLACK GIRL: We won ! We won ! We won !
PRINCIPAL GANUS: What the hell is going on out there ?
JOLIE: OJ Simpson.not guilt .
RAY: You 're dead .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: Look who you 're stepping to , Ray . A little white boy ? Ray blows it off .
BEAT: Jolie . Come with me .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: Look . I 'm not proud of what happened in that gym .
BEAT: at the international math meet . He hands Jolie a form .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: You were great your freshman year . Your calculus teacher tells me you still great , but for some reason you quit .
JOLIE: I made JV that year .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: Well , there 's going to be no ematch of the Springbrook playoff game . Both teams are forfeiting . So now you 've got plenty of time , that 's for damn sure .
JOLIE: They 're not rescheduling our game ? That 's insane .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: The math team needs you Jolie . We 're on the verge of nationals .
BEAT: In whole numbers . The principal laughs at his own joke .
PRINCIPAL GANUS: You can go now .
JOLIE: It 's not fair man . I mean everyone got suspended on the team but me . Just because I 'm in the Magnet .
HAROON: Wake up dude . Life 's not fair . Who ever said it was .
JOLIE: Are you sure you wan na do that ? We 're in the middle of C hall .
HAROON: I told you . I do n't give a fuck .
JOLIE: Really ? On Mr. Applebaum 's door ? Yall have been warring . He 's gon na know it was you .
HAROON: So what ?
SOFT: Jesus Christ , man .
HAROON: I know . Duh .
JOLIE: You could get suspended for that .
HAROON: Who cares ? What does school even matter ?
JOLIE: What 's gotten into you ?
HAROON: I do n't know .
BEAT: Maybe my parents are getting divorced and you do n't even know about it .
JOLIE: Are you serious ?
HAROON: Gimmie my spray-paint ! Owww . Fuck you .
JOLIE: It 's for your own good . This ca elongs to Principal Ganus . They stair each other down .
HAROON: I swear , of all the things you have to worry about .
JOLIE: What 's that supposed to mean .
HAROON: Come on dude .
JOLIE: Come on what ?
HAROON: Are you numb ? The whole school knows Christine is pregnant with your baby .
JOLIE: Dude . It 's not like that . She 's gon na get an abortion . She comes from a wealthy family .
HAROON: So what if she does . Does n't it mean anything to you ?
JOLIE: I do n't know . I do n't know what it means . It just happened .
HAROON: Magic marker ? That is so lame . Do n't get me started .
JOLIE: Once everyone heard that I got Christine pregnant , it was like I was the coolest kid in school .
JOLIE: I told them all it was Haroon who spray-painted ` Free Mike Tyson , ' and even he was cool too .
ON TELEVISION: What 's he saying now ? What 's he signing ? The guest interprets .
ON TELEVISION: He wants to say he loves you all , and he wishes he could hang onto these people a little longer , connect with them a little deeper , efore it 's all over . The Carson crowd laughs wildly . Jolie 's hand slides up Christine 's skirt .
WHISPERING: Jolie ! No way . Not until you know what .
WHISPERING: Do n't worry .
WHISPERING: When ? You 've been saying you 're gon na get your Dad 's credit card for like a month . Time is of the essence here , duh .
WHISPERING: I told you I 'm on it . First thing when my parents get back . But this is the best time to do it because we dont have to wear a condom . Come on , let 's go upstairs . Trust me . He reaches back up her skirt .
WHISPERING: No means no , Jolie . Christine pushes him away . Haroon comes out of the bathroom .
WHISPERING: Dude . I am blazed out of my mind ight now , but I think someone 's hiding in your shower ?
WHISPERING: Forreal ?
WHISPERING: Yeah , dude . Check it .
JOLIE: Who 's there ?
HENRIETTA: Jolie .
JOLIE: Damn Henrietta . You scared the shit out of me .
HENRIETTA: How could you ? She opens the curtains .
JOLIE: What ? What are you doing in my asement bathroom ?
HENRIETTA: I 'm catching you cheating with Christine ! You asshole !
JOLIE: Shhh . People are sleeping .
HENRIETTA: Do n't lie to me . You think I dont know shit . She 's pregnant with you aby .
JOLIE: Whao .
HENRIETTA: You think the Maple Ave. kids do n't hear mad junk about the Magnet kids .
JOLIE: Henrietta , relax .
HENRIETTA: I know about all that stuff , how y'all hooked up during floor hockey intramurals under the trampoline . Everything . You think I do n't have friends ? I have friends ! Henrietta starts crying .
JOLIE: Come on , I know you have friends Henrietta .
HENRIETTA: You think I 'm a fool ? I watched you make out with her on the Power-pad two second ago ! Crying , Henrietta exits .
CHRISTINE: All this time you 've been hooking up with some pregnant girl failing out of school . I am so fucking humiliated right now . Do n't you ever , ever , ever so much as speak to me again . Come on girls .
WENDEL: Damn Jolie , all the girls just ounced .
ARIUS: Yea , let 's get out of here .
HAROON: Damn man . I better go too . This shit is too fucked up right now . Jolie stands all alone .
JOLIE: The next day I found out Christine had the abortion on her own . She said she asked the doctor to see the fetus .
JOLIE: Christine said the dead fetus looked like a baby squirrel . Like the ones that fall out of the nest and are on the sidewalk dead with no fur yet . I guess it went well though .
JOLIE: After that Arius said not to worry about anything . That Christine would be cool , and Henrietta was just fucked up anyway .
WENDEL: Jolie , you want in ?
JOLIE: Naw . I got ta see this .
ARIUS: Ok . Here it goes .
JOLIE: Wow .
ARIUS: Yeah . This is the future right here .
JOLIE: Why wont it go play or whatever ?
ARIUS: Bandwidth .
CONFUSED: Oh yea . Jolie tokes a blunt . Arius takes a last puff and puts it out .
CUTE GIRL: Arius . Who was the first president of the United States ?
ARIUS: Uh , George Washington . She runs back into the bedroom .
VOICE OVER: I was n't sure what to make of it all . Why Henrietta 's parents neve know she was pregant until too late ? Or why I never said something myself ? It was like none of it eally mattered , or was even real at all , until it was too late .
VOICE OVER: After that I used the internet to find a bunch of places that would take Henrietta 's baby up fo adoption . It was n't easy , but I found all the information right from Haroon 's basement , using Netscape .
HAROON: This couple looks good .
JOLIE: Yeah , yeah , yeah . They 're perfect . All I have to do is convince Henrietta .
HAROON: Are you guys still on good terms ?
JOLIE: I do n't know . Our sessions are in the kitchen now . Adreseis enters .
ADRESEIS: We got the trampoline set-up . Come on . They make their way to the back yard .
BUMMED: It 's weird , I do n't really care if I make the NBA anymore .
HAROON: Really ? What do you care about then ?
JOLIE: I do n't know .
HAROON'S DAD: Good one , Adreseis ! ! Haroon turns .
HAROON: Sweet ! Now that Mom moved out we always eat American . You wan na eat with us ?
JOLIE: I do but there 's something I got ta do .
HAROON: Oh yeah . That 's right . Well , good luck with it all .
MR. AARONSON: Hey Henrietta . Jolie is here . He ought over a gift .
HENRIETTA: Oh yeah . Let him in .
JOLIE: Hey . What 's up ? Uh . I brought ove my Super Nintendo . I thought the aby might want it .
HENRIETTA: Did Jaguar 64 finally come out ?
JOLIE: No . Come on . I 'm just trying to show you I actually care .
HENRIETTA: Your practice Jersey !
JOLIE: Yeah . I 'm not gon na need it anymore so .
HENRIETTA: Really ? Why not ?
JOLIE: I 'm not playing next year . I want to focus on my studies .
HENRIETTA: Jolie . Thank you .
SMELLS IT: It smells like you . Someday little Benny will wear it . That 's what I 've decided to name him , Benny .
JOLIE: Oh . Wow . Well . Uh , before you name him , I was kinda thinking maybe we could discuss , uh ,
HENRIETTA: What ?
JOLIE: Well ,
HENRIETTA: Jolie . How could you even say that ? I 've wanted a family of my own , a eal family , since as long as I can emember . There is no way I could ever give little Benny away . Ever . In a million years . Do you understand that ?
JOLIE: Well . Yeah . I guess so . But at the same time , it just does n't seem like the smartest thing . I 've already found a really wealthy , well educated , good meaning couple who 'd like to meet up with you about it .
HENRIETTA: Never . No way Jolie . End of discussion .
JOLIE: Do n't you even want to think it over for a few days ? I mean , look how lucky your parents are to have you . You 'd be making some couple just as happy . And your child would have more opportunities . I mean you 're still in High School , know what I mean ?
HENRIETTA: Jolie , I ca n't even believe you 're suggesting that ? Dont you see how acist that is ?
JOLIE: What ? Jolie is silent .
HENRIETTA: Now do something to cheer me up . I am totally offended you wanted to give away my baby .
JIM: Oh yeah , baby , I 'll give it to you .
JIM'S MOM: Hey , Jimmy . I just wanted to say sweet dreams .
JIM: Yep , okay Mom , 'night .
JIM'S MOM: Kiss goodnight .
JIM: Yeah . Damn cable . There 's this nature show that I 'm trying to watch .
JIM'S DAD: What the heck is this ?
JIM: Nothing !
JIM'S MOM: I think he 's trying to watch one of the illegal channels .
JIM: Jesus , Mom ! They 're not illegal ! They 're pay channels . How could a television channel be illegal ? ! God , get a clue !
JIM'S DAD: James , do n't speak that way to you mother !
JIM'S MOM: Oh my God !
JIM'S DAD: Honey , why do n't you let me handle this one .
KEVIN: It 's a big , thick envelope , Vicky . You got in .
VICKY: You think so ?
KEVIN: `` Dear Ms. Hughes . We 're sorry , but after keeping you on the wait list fo the past couple months , we 've decided you are now rejected . Enclosed is a 100-page , full-color brochure on how ejected you are . ''
VICKY: Kevin , this is serious !
KEVIN: You got in .
VICKY: I love you !
OZ: Illegal channels ? Shit , if there 's any channel that should be illegal , it 's whatever that women 's channel is . Lifetime Supply of Pantyhose , or some shit .
JIM: Yeah hey , did you see The Little Mermaid on TV the other night ? That Ariel , whew .
OZ: She 's a mermaid , dude .
JIM: Yeah , Oz , but not when she 's on land .
OZ: She 's a cartoon , dude .
JIM: A hot cartoon .
OZ: Is there anything you do n't jerk off to ?
JIM: C-Span ?
KEVIN: Then she said she loves me .
OZ: Oh shit dude , the L-word !
JIM: And you said
KEVIN: Nothing , I just hugged her back .
JIM: You think she was serious ?
KEVIN: I could n't tell She could 've meant like , `` I love you grandma '' or `` I love you Vanderbilt . ''
OZ: Just do n't bring it up , hang low , maybe she wo n't mention it again .
MICHELLE: And what we should do today , in band ? Instead of playing our instruments egularly ? We should play them ackwards ! That 'll be so funny !
OZ: You guys got the Latin homework ?
JIM: No Kevin , you ?
KEVIN: Please . We 're all golden , we 're college bound . I figured it out I can get a c- minus in every class , and it 's not gon na make a difference . U of M , here I come .
VICKY: Vanderbilt 's not that far from U of M .
JESSICA: Yeah right .
VICKY: What ? We both have cars .
JESSICA: Yeah but , no offense , you 're talking about a post-high school , long- distance relationship , and you and Kevin have n't even done it yet .
VICKY: That 's not why we 're going out .
JESSICA: What the hell are you expecting him to drive to Vanderbilt for ? Milk and cookies ?
VICKY: Jessica ! He 'll drive there for me , and I 'll drive to Ann Arbor for him . We 're going to have sex when he 's eady and I 'm ready . It 's got to be completely perfect . I want the right place , the right time , the right moment .
JESSICA: Vicky , it 's not a space shuttle launch , it 's sex . So did you do the physics write-up ?
VICKY: Please .
JIM: There 's our man .
KEVIN: Finch , you got the Latin homework ?
FINCH: Non habeo . Canis meus id comedit . The guys keep staring . A beat .
KEVIN: Whatever .
OZ: Stifler ! !
STIFLER: You coming to party tonight , Ostreicher , ya fuckface ?
OZ: Depends if my date wants to stop by .
STIFLER: That junior chick ?
OZ: Nah , gave her the Heisman . I 'm working on something new .
STIFLER: Yeah right . I got an idea fo something new . How 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks , remove the shrink wrap , and fuckin ' use 'em .
OZ: Dude , it 's got ta happen she 's a college chick !
STIFLER: Bullshit . From where ?
OZ: She works part-time at my dad 's store .
STIFLER: Hah ! Yeah , Oz , I bet it 's more like your dad works at her store .
OZ: Dude , he does not .
KEVIN: Really , Stifler . He 's the manager . Oz gives a little nod , avoiding the issue .
STIFLER: Hey , man , I 'm not making fun . I 'm fuckin ' impressed . I mean , `` Footlong or six-inch , white or wheat , '' that 's some serious shit to master . Oz musters a little LAUGH .
KEVIN: Stifler , you 're such an asshole .
STIFLER: Meyers , what 's the deal with you and Vicky , anyway ? You 've been going out since Homecoming and all she 'll do is low you ? Shit , I 'd drop her like a steaming turd .
FINCH: Do you commonly grasp warm pieces of stool ?
STIFLER: I do when I 'm throwing them at you mom , you damn freak . Alright then , see you guys tonight . I 'll look for you in the No Fucking section .
KEVIN'S BROTHER: You called me to ask me how to get laid ?
KEVIN: What was I gon na do , call dad ? I do n't even know his number .
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Just dial 976-Asshole .
KEVIN: Yeah , well anywayI thought you might have some advice , brother to other . I mean , I think tonight she might , we might really , there 's a chance that you know .
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Have you ever heard of the bible ?
KEVIN: What ? Not the Bible ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Well , that 's not really the name , but we always called it that .
KEVIN: Does it tell me how to get laid ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: You know what , nevermind . You 're not eady .
KEVIN: Ready for what ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Whoop , you 're fading out . Good luck at that party .
KEVIN: You ever hear of something called The Bible ?
OZ: Once , in church , dude .
JIM: Ooh , here 's an easy one `` Attractive SWF , fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion . '' Okay '' Attractive '' ugly .
OZ: `` Fun loving '' insane .
KEVIN: Unlisted age , plus `` youthful mind , '' equals old .
JIM: No , `` Charming '' is old . `` Older '' is u > really old . `` Youthful mind '' is dead .
FINCH: Perhaps you should consider actually answering an ad .
JIM: Finch , you can be the one to date a nearly-dead insane chick . Eat you damn imitation hot dog .
FINCH: This is no imitation . Removing the hot dog from the Ultradog yields a etter dog . Behold Ultradog , no dog .
KEVIN: AlrightI 'm shooting for a nine o'clock ETA . Beer in hand by five after .
JIM: You can crash at Stifler 's ?
KEVIN: It 's all good . Breath check .
OZ: Dude , I wish you would n't do that .
KEVIN: You got something up your sleeve fo tonight , Finch ?
FINCH: A foolproof plan , my friend . You shall see .
OZ: And little hurly-burly came by in he curly-wurly , and asked me if I needed I ri-hide
KEVIN: How the hell do you know all these andom songs ?
OZ: It 's early Springsteen , dude , this is classic . This was before the cheesy emake .
JIM: This was remade ? Into what ?
OZ: Bli-hinded by the light cut loose like a deuce , another runner in the night , blinded
KEVIN: At least now I know what the hell they 're saying .
JIM: So , does my hair look better like this , or like this ?
OZ: Who cares ?
JIM: Nadia does , that Czechoslovakian chick , she might be there tonight . Now , do you think she 'd prefer Cool Hip Jim or Laid Back Jim ?
KEVIN: The difference is so phenomenal , I ca n't decide .
JIM: What about you ? You 're the one with the girlfriend and you 're still stranded on third base .
KEVIN: You know , I 've never got that shit . What exactly constitutes third base ?
OZ: Contact , dude .
KEVIN: Then where does a blowjob figure in ? They ponder this for a moment .
OZ: Shortstop . 'Course , you do n't make it to third , and you 're out .
JIM: So let 's say you get therewhat 's uh , third base feel like ?
KEVIN: Oh , man , that 's kind of sad . Jim shrugs , embarrassed .
OZ: Feels like warm apple pie , dude .
JIM: Apple pie McDonald 's or homemade ?
FINCH: Gentlemen , see you at the Bacchanalia . He MEEPS his horn and buzzes away .
SHERMAN: What 's up , fellas ?
JIM: Hey Sherman . Scopin ' the babes .
SHERMAN: Indeed . Some fine ladies here , boys . Confidence is high , repeat , confidence is high . Sherman is moving to DefCon Two , full strategic arsenal ready fo deployment .
JIM: You 've got something going ?
SHERMAN: Did you see that Central chick ? Brunette ?
KEVIN: Yeah , okay Sherman , whatever .
SHERMAN: I 'm a sophisticated sex robot , sent ack through timeto change the future for one lucky lady .
KEVIN: Yeah man , right on ! Sherman saunters off into the party .
JIM: Oh , shit ! There she is . Nadia .
VICKY: You like her ? Her sponsor family lives on my block . Why do n't you talk to her ?
JIM: What would I say ?
VICKY: Just tell her what 's on your mind . And smile , you 've got a good smile . Come on .
KEVIN: Got ta go .
JIM: But
NADIA: You are in my English class , no ? Jim smiles .
JIM: Yes .
NADIA: I thought so .
JIM: Noyougoahead .
NADIA: Okay .
JIM: Oh , shit . No ! Shit ! He pounds his head with his fist .
MICHELLE: We 're here for the party ?
STIFLER: What party ? There 's no party .
BAND DORK: Ring the bell again .
MICHELLE: Ringing the bell is dorky let 's just go in . We hear a CLICK OF A DEADBOLT .
VICKY: Oh , Kev .
KEVIN: Vicky do you think , maybeit 's time for us to take the next step in our relationship ?
VICKY: Tonight ?
KEVIN: Yeah , it 's such a perfect evening . Is n't this how you 've always pictured it ?
VICKY: Just relax .
OZ: Great evening , is n't it ?
COLLEGE CHICK: Sure .
OZ: There 's something about the spring that 's just cool . Like the smell of fresh rain or something .
COLLEGE CHICK: What did you just say ?
OZ: Suck mebeautiful ?
COLLEGE CHICK: What ? !
OZ: Uhyou know , my friends call me Nova as in Casanova .
COLLEGE CHICK: You need some work , buddy ! She bursts into laughter . Oz is ill .
OZ: Welljeez , do n't laugh at me .
COLLEGE CHICK: Look , Chris . There are just some things you need to learn , that 's all .
OZ: Like what ?
COLLEGE CHICK: Alright , wellyou 've got to tone it down . You do n't need to go to Lookout Point and spout cheeseball lines to be omantic .
OZ: okay
COLLEGE CHICK: You have to pay attention to a girl . Be sensitive to her feelings . Relationships are reciprocal .
OZ: I 'm not good in math . She 's trying not to laugh again .
COLLEGE CHICK: Come on , I 'll drop you off at you friends ' . Oz could n't be humiliated any further .
STIFLER: You actually said that ? ! Haaaah ! !
OZ: Shut the fuck up .
JIM: Hey , you did better than I did , Nova .
OZ: Oh that 's really reassuring . And do n't call me Nova anymore . I 'm a fraud .
STIFLER: This is pathetic . I 'm gon na find me a little hottie . Stifler strides into another room . STIFLER Suck me , beautiful ! Oz wallows in his beer can , beaten .
VICKY: Let me know .
KEVIN: Okay , do n't stop .
GUY #1: There we go .
STIFLER: SUCK ME , BEAUTIFUL !
KEVIN: God dammit , Stifler !
STIFLER: Check-out time ! Please vacate the oom .
VICKY: Stifler , you 're such a jerk .
KEVIN: Vicky , wait !
SOPHOMORE CHICK: God , I ca n't believe there are so many cool people at this party .
STIFLER: Yep .
SOPHOMORE: And you got a keg , too , wow . Oh , wait , I left my beer downstairs .
STIFLER: Here , babe .
SOPHOMORE CHICK: Thanks . She 's about to take a sip .
STIFLER: You 're really beautiful . Thrown off , she sets the beer down .
SOPHOMORE CHICK: Really ?
STIFLER: Uh huh .
SOPHOMORE CHICK: I do n't know if I want to be doing this .
STIFLER: Doing what ?
SOPHOMORE CHICK: You know . If we hook up , tomorrow I 'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about .
STIFLER: No way .
SOPHOMORE CHICK: Steve ! You could at least look at me when you say that .
STIFLER: Look Sarah . I would n't go telling stories or whatever about you . I promise . Smiling , he raises the beer
JIM: What the hell ? I should be able to talk to chicks . I 'm articulate . I got a 720 on my SAT verbal . Copious . Verisimilitude . A GUY SCREAMS upstairs .
GUY #1: Oh , gross .
JIM: Jesus , what did you eat ?
KEVIN: Stifler , how 's the man chowder ? ! Stifler barfs even more violently .
VICKY: He likes it .
JESSICA: Of course he does . What about you ? Have you just never had one with Kevin or have you never had one , period ?
VICKY: I think I 've had one .
JESSICA: Well that 's a no . No wonder you 're not psyched about sex . You 've never even had one manually ?
VICKY: I 've never tried it .
JESSICA: Are you kidding ? You 've never double- clicked your mouse ? Vicky shrugs .
NADIA: You are right . The hands are not always necessary .
JESSICA: See ?
NADIA: In fact I should teach you my own special method . I developed it myself at the ballet institute in Prague . You use nothing but the muscles of the inner thigh . Nadia walks off .
JESSICA: No wonder she never pays attention in class . Vicky nods , traumatized .
JIM: Shit , I ca n't believe a fine woman like this produced a guy like Stifler .
FRESHMAN GUY: Dude ! That chick is a MILF !
SHERMAN: Do n't you think you fellas could try a little tact ? I 've got company . Know what I mean ?
KEVIN: Dammit ! If Sherman has sex before I do , I 'm gon na be really fucking pissed . They turn the corner into the kitchen .
VICKY: Jessica , can you drive me home ?
JESSICA: Sure .
KEVIN: Vicky , wait .
VICKY: Not for you .
KEVIN: Ow , what the hell ?
JIM: Sorry , I thought you were dead .
FINCH: Good morning gentleman .
JIM: Finch ! Where were you last night ? What happened to the foolproof plan ?
FINCH: I thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance . When I got here , the Bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left .
KEVIN: Feeling better , Oz ?
OZ: I 'm such a loser .
KEVIN: That 's the spirit .
SHERMAN: I 'll never forgetthank you .
CENTRAL GIRL: Bye .
JIM: You did it .
SHERMAN: Fellas , say goodbye to Chuck Sherman , the boy . I am now a man . The guys are shocked and amazed .
KEVIN: I I do n't get it , how the hell did you do that ?
SHERMAN: It was just my time , fellas , it was just my time . Best of luck to you , oys .
KEVIN: I put in months of quality time with Vicky . Sherman meets a chick for one night and scores ? This is just wrong .
OZ: No shit , I 'm never gon na get laid . How the hell am I gon na become this Mr . Sensitive Man ?
JIM: Jesus , we 're all gon na go to college as virgins . They 've probably got special dorms for people like us .
KEVIN: Alright , I got an idea . But it stays etween us . Agreed ? They do . KEVIN Okay . It 's really simple . We make an agreement no wait , more than an agreement .
JIM: Like a bet ?
KEVIN: No , a pact . No money involved . This is more important than any bet . Now here 's the deal We all get laid efore we graduate . A beat
OZ: Dude , it 's not like I have n't been trying to get laid .
KEVIN: This is different . This is better . Think of when you 're working out , Oz . You need a partner , someone to spot you . Someone to keep you motivated .
JIM: Pontificated .
KEVIN: Separately , we are flawed and vulnerable . But together , we are the masters of our sexual destiny !
JIM: Their tiger-style kung-fu is strong ; ut our dragon style will defeat it !
OZ: The Sha-lin masters from east and west must unite !
KEVIN: Guys , guys you 're ruining my fucking moment here . Now think about it Kevin jumps up on a chair .
STIFLER: What the hell are you losers doing ?
FINCH: If I might ask , when you brush you teeth , do you spit or swallow ?
KEVIN: Now , the sex it 's got to be valid , consensual sex . No funny stuff . And no prostitutes , if you were thinking about that , Finch . Finch gives a wistful `` Who , me ? ''
OZ: Dude , prom sucks .
KEVIN: I know , but think about it At the parties that night . Chicks are gon na want to do it .
JIM: Yeah , it 's like tradition o something .
KEVIN: Right . That gives us
JIM: Exactly three weeks to the day . They take this in with some trepidation .
KEVIN: Alright then . It 's official . Any questions ? There are none . Kevin raises his Pepsi . KEVIN To the next step . The guys raise their drinks .
ALL: To the next step .
JIM: Just a minute !
JIM'S DAD: Can I come in ?
JIM: Yeah , sure .
JIM'S DAD: You 're notbusy ?
JIM: Dad , come in .
JIM'S DAD: Sit down , Jim . Let 's talk . Jim takes a seat next to his dad .
JIM: Okay .
JIM'S DAD: These are for you . From father to son .
JIM: Uhdad
JIM'S DAD: Go ahead son , there 's more .
JIM: I know , Dad .
JIM'S DAD: Oh , okay . Here 's let me show you .
JIM: Dad ! I know !
JIM'S DAD: Do you know about the clitoris ?
JIM: Yes dad .
JIM'S DAD: Sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate .
JIM: Thank you , dad , I got it .
JIM'S DAD: Okay , well that about covers it . Jim MURMURS something incomprehensible . JIM 'S DAD Now , let 's put these somewhere where your mother wo n't find them .
JIM: Wait !
JIM'S DAD: I 'll have to save this speech fo another day . I 'm too worn out .
KEVIN: Did you get the flowers ? What about the poem ? She does n't care . KEVIN Vicky , please do n't do this . Vicky stares him right in the eye . Strong .
VICKY: I 'll think about it .
JESSICA: Ah , you 'll get her back soon enough . That 's easy , she likes you . What you need to do is learn to press a girl 's uttons . You got ta give her what she 's never had .
KEVIN: What ?
JESSICA: I 'll give you a hint . `` Ohhh , yeah , yeah ! '' Comprende ?
KEVIN: You meanand orgasm ?
JESSICA: You got it , stud .
KEVIN: WellI 'm pretty sure I 've
JESSICA: No you have n't .
KEVIN: But that one time
JESSICA: No .
KEVIN: Well of course I 'd want to give he that . I mean , what do you think , I do n't care about her ?
JESSICA: Do you ?
KEVIN: Of course .
JESSICA: Do you love her ? Kevin squirms .
KEVIN: I I do n't know , you ca n't ask me that .
JESSICA: Well , if you want to get her in the sack , tell her you love her . That 's how I was duped .
KEVIN: I do n't want to dupe her , Jessica . If I say it , I have to be sure I mean it .
JESSICA: Well it 's up to you . The Big L , o the Big O .
STIFLER: Dickhead ! You got ta see this .
JIM: This is unexpected .
STIFLER: What did you cocks do to him ? Shit , if Coach Marshall sees this , he 'll kick Oz off the team on principle alone .
OZ: Hey guys , you came to watch me in action ?
JIM: Yeah , I think you sounded pretty good .
STIFLER: I think you need your balls eattached .
OZ: Keep it down , dude .
STIFLER: What the fuck are you doing here ?
OZ: This place is an untapped resource . Check it out , dude , these vocal jazz girls are hot .
HEATHER: I think he 's got a nice voice .
STIFLER: You dipshit , you 're expecting to score with some goody-goody choir-girl priss ?
OZ: Dude , watch me work . They go fo sensitive studs like me . Oz waves goodbye to a final choir girl .
KEVIN: This is your plan , Finch ?
FINCH: Yep .
KEVIN: This . Right now .
FINCH: Uh-huh .
JIM: You 're just gon na sit there and drink your coffee ?
FINCH: Mochaccino . Actually , in the spirit of the pact , I do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter .
KEVIN: Of course , Finch . What ?
FINCH: Whatever you hear about me , you agree .
KEVIN: What are we gon na hear ?
FINCH: You 'll see . Got ta go . Sixteen minute round trip .
JIM: Finch , do n't you think it 's about time you learned to take a dump at school ?
FINCH: When was the last time you looked at the facilities here ?
KEVIN: Fifteen minutes ago .
ENTHRALLED GIRL: Uh , guys ? Was that Paul Finch ?
KEVIN: Yeah .
ENTHRALLED GIRL: You guys have like , seen him in the locker room , right ?
KEVIN: Yeah .
ENTHRALLED GIRL: Is it true that he 's reallyhuge ?
JIM: I have no idea . Finch showers in a athing suit .
KEVIN: No it 's true . He isreally ig .
JIM: Yeah , enormous .
ENTHRALLED GIRL: Woah . Does he have a date for prom yet .
JIM: Definitely not .
ENTHRALLED GIRL: No way !
KEVIN: Finch has n't done a damn thing , and he 's got girls lining up already .
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Orgasm ?
KEVIN: Yeah .
SUSHI CUSTOMER: What 's good here ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Try the spicy tuna hand roll .
KEVIN: What ? ! How do I do that ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: Uh forget that . Look , is that all you 're interested in ? Ways to get your girlfriend into bed ?
KEVIN: Well , no . I thinkI guess it would e good to be able to return the favor . I mean , it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as I do .
KEVIN'S BROTHER: That 's good , that 's what I needed to hear . Now you qualify .
KEVIN: Qualify for what ?
KEVIN'S BROTHER: You 've just inherited The Bible .
JIM: Mom ? ! I 'm home !
JIM'S DAD: Jim ?
JIM: It 's not what it looks like !
JIM'S DAD: I guesswe 'll just tell you motherthat we ate it all .
CHOIR TEACHER: What the hell was that ?
OZ: Sorry .
CHOIR TEACHER: No , it was good .
OZ: Oh , well It came from the heart .
CHOIR TEACHER: Well then keep it coming . Alright , people , good work ! Keep it up and we 'll do great at the state competition .
HEATHER: Not bad , Chris .
OZ: Really ? Hey , thanks Heather , ight ?
HEATHER: Yeahsoyou 've got this sort of Bobby McFerrin thing going there .
OZ: Yeah . Right , uh-huh . I feel like I 've discovered this whole new side of me . Music is so expressive .
HEATHER: Okay . I mean , I agree , butare n't you supposed to be out , like , trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something ? Oz `` gets serious '' at this .
OZ: Oh sure . I know what people think . It 's like , Oz , he 's just this kickass lacrosse player I also play football , by the way But that 's likenot all that I am .
HEATHER: Of course , I did n't
OZ: I mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that .
HEATHER: You ? You think I do n't get that ? God , it 's like just because I do n't get drunk and barf every weekend , people say `` Oh , here 's this goody-two- shoes choir-girl priss . ''
OZ: Yeahso like , what else do you do ?
HEATHER: Well the same things you do . Hang out with friends and stuff , you know , whatever . What do you think I do ?
OZ: I just realized that I did n't know anything about you . I was interested .
HEATHER: Ohwell that 's okay . Cool .
KEVIN: I was being selfish . And majorly insensitive . And I 'm a total idiot .
VICKY: I think `` shithead '' really says it .
KEVIN: Yes ! I 'm a shithead ! I 'm a complete and total shithead ! She cracks a little smile .
VICKY: How ? Vicky stops walking . Looks at Kevin .
KEVIN: Just a second !
VICKY'S MOM: Hon ? Can you tell Vick to come on down for supper ?
KEVIN: Vicky , shhh , you know there 's no lock on your door .
JIM: Hey , dad . Did you knock ?
JIM'S DAD: Oh , Jim ! I 'm looking at the ol ' family portrait , here . Yep . It 's a good one .
JIM: Dad , please stop . Please . I 'm sure I know what you 're talking about .
JIM'S DAD: Sure you know , son , but I think you 've een having a little problem with it . It 's okay , though . What you 're doing is perfectly normal . It 's like practice . Like when you play tennis against a wall . Some day , there 'll be a partner returning the ball . You do want a partner , do n't you son ?
JIM: Yes .
JIM'S DAD: That 's great . Now remember , it 's okayall masturbate .
COACH MARSHALL: Good work , Ostreicher .
OZ: Thanks coach .
COACH MARSHALL: You 're a killer , Ozzy !
OZ: Thanks , coach
HEATHER: Just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience . You like , `` kicked butt . ''
OZ: Whoops , excuse me
HEATHER: UmChris
OZ: You can call me Oz .
HEATHER: Do I have to ?
OZ: You can call me Ostreicher .
HEATHER: What 's your middle name ?
OZ: Forget it .
HEATHER: Come on ! I wo n't tell .
OZ: Neither will I .
HEATHER: Okay . So I had thisthought , andthis may seem like it 's out of left field , and I do n't know if you can , but since I 'm not going with anyone
STIFLER: Hah ! Central sucks ! Choir Chick ? What the hell are you doing here ?
HEATHER: Well , I uh , I was I was asking Chris to prom . So do you wan na go ?
OZ: Yeah !
STIFLER: Well , just do n't expect Oz to pay fo the limo .
OZ: Stifler , fuck man , you do n't have to be so insensitive . A beat .
STIFLER: What ? ? Whatever look uh , do n't forget my cottage after prom . On Lake Michigan . Stifler joins some other LACROSSE BUDDIES .
OZ: Alright , cool . I got ta hit the showers , butI think this 'll be eally good .
HEATHER: Yeah , me too , okay , cool .
STIFLER: My man Oz , working it with the choi abes ?
LACROSSE BUDDIES: Yeah , go Oz ! etc . Oz laughs , embarrassed .
OZ: Hey , you know , what can I say , I dig those cute little sweaters she wears .
STIFLER: I 'll bet you do , you little horndog , she 's givin ' you fuckin ' stiffies , ight ?
TEACHER: So once Hal becomes king , he has to take on the responsibilities of leadership , and turn his back on his old , drunken friend , Falstaff . You see , Hal was going through a rite of passage , much like you all are . Make the most of the time you 've got left together . You 'll miss it later .
OZ: So does your tongue cramp up ?
KEVIN: Nah , you get kind of dizzy though .
JIM: Wow , that 's amazing , she 's probably gon na want to do it soon .
SHERMAN: Still questing after the holy grail , eh guys ?
JIM: Hey , where 's Finch ?
KEVIN: Went home to shit .
JIM: I do n't get it . How does a guy like that get this sudden reputation ?
OZ: What reputation ?
KEVIN: Observe .
JIM: Actually , it 's an eagle and this big python .
KEVIN: That 's good , Jim .
OZ: Okay , explain .
KEVIN: I ca n't , I have no idea how he 's doing it . And that leaves you trailing , Jim . You got ta get your act together .
JIM: Yeah , I know . I 'm working on it .
NADIA: You are very good in the world history class , yes ?
JIM: Me ?
NADIA: Perhaps you can help me with my studies ? The guys nod , `` Yes ! Yes ! ''
JIM: Okaythat would be cool sometime . How 'bout tomorrow ?
NADIA: Well , I do have ballet practice . Perhaps I can come by your house afterwards . I can change clothes at your place ?
JIM: I suppose that would be okay .
OZ: Nice car .
HEATHER: I 'm glad you think so .
OZ: You do n't like it ?
HEATHER: No , I like the car . By the way , though , about prom ? That was like a bad idea . Sorry I invited you . She hastily walks towards the school .
OZ: What ? !
HEATHER: Oh , please . I asked you because I thought you might actually be worth going with . But you are just a jock . No wait . You 're a jerk .
OZ: What ? No I 'm not .
HEATHER: I saw you making fun of me with you lacrosse buddies .
OZ: I was n't making fun of you .
HEATHER: Give me a break , you 're so full of it .
CHOIR TEACHER: Okay , Heather , that was good , but I want to thicken up that solo . Michigan State is this Saturday , and I want that part to smoke .
HEATHER: I know , my timing 's off .
CHOIR TEACHER: A little , but I think it 'll work etter as a duet . With a tenor part .
OZ: I 'll do it .
CHOIR TEACHER: Okay then . The rest of you okay with that ?
HEATHER: Why are you doing this ?
OZ: Because I want to .
HEATHER: Yeah ? Well you ca n't fake your way through this . You better practice . She leaves .
STIFLER: Fuck me ! You 're gon na have a naked Eastern-European chick in your house , and you 're telling me you 're not gon na take advantage of that ?
JIM: What am I gon na do , broadcast her ove the internet ?
OZ: You can do that ?
JIM: Oh no way . I ca n't do that to her .
STIFLER: Dammit , Jim , get some fucking balls . If you do n't have the guts to photograph a naked chick in your room , how are you ever gon na sleep with one ? Now all you got ta do is set up some sort of private link or whatever on the net , and tell me the address . The guys ponder this .
KEVIN: You can send me the address too .
JIM: Welldammit , if I 'm doing this , how the hell am I gon na watch ?
KEVIN: I 'll save you a seat .
COMPUTER VOICE: `` You have established an internet connection . ''
KEVIN: There we go .
JIM'S DAD: Son . This lady 's here for you .
JIM: I know . Hey Nadia .
NADIA: Hello James . Ready to study .
JIM'S DAD: Oh , you bet he is . Jim 's quite the ookworm .
JIM: Dad .
JIM'S DAD: Oh , no , not too much of a bookworm . He 's a good little kid . Er , guy . Man .
JIM: Dad ! !
JIM'S DAD: Okay , okay . I 'll let you hit those ooks . Jim 's dad gives a knowing look and exits .
STIFLER: Shut up and watch this , you might learn something .
JIM: So you need to change , right ?
NADIA: Do you mind ? This fabric is so uncomfortable . She sets her duffel on Jim 's bed .
JIM: No , go right ahead and get dressed . I 'll just be downstairs , studying up . Get me when you 're ready . Jim exits , closing the door behind him .
KEVIN: Here we go .
JIM: Be back in a sec !
JIM'S MOM: Jim ? Honey , where are you going ?
KEVIN: Want a beer ?
JIM: Did I miss anything ? !
KEVIN: Just in time .
JIM: Woah !
KEVIN: Oh , man ! This is incredible .
STIFLER'S BROTHER: This is like the coolest thing I 've ever seen .
JIM: Oh , thank you Lord , for this wonderful day .
KEVIN: Nice collection there , Jim .
JIM: Dear God she 's she 's she 's
KEVIN: You know , Jimyou could go back thereand
FINCH: Seduce her .
JIM: But , but what would I do ?
KEVIN: Anything ! Just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something .
JIM: That 's stupid .
KEVIN: No , you 're stupid . Get going ! Right now ! She 's primed !
JIM: Ohohoh , shit ! He BOLTS across the room .
KEVIN: Come on , Jim . Where are you ? The PHONE RINGS . Kevin answers . KEVIN Hello ? Hey Shermanwhat ? ! How did you know ?
SHERMAN: Jim must 've addressed that E-mail wrong . It went out to every mailbox in the East High directory . God , how juvenile .
STONER #1: Whoa .
STONER #2: Kind .
JIM: Please , God . Let this be it .
KEVIN: He 's going in !
GUY #1: There 's somebody going in there !
STONER #1: Hey , that guy 's in my trig class .
JIM: Looks like you could use an extra hand . Nadia 's eyes flash open .
NADIA: James ! You have come in here on purpose ? !
JIM: Welluh
NADIA: Shame on you !
JIM: Uhyeahsorry .
NADIA: Well . You have seen me . Now it is my turn to see you . Strip .
JIM: Strip ?
NADIA: Yes , slowly .
JIM: You mean like , strip strip ?
NADIA: For me ?
FINCH: What do you suppose they 're saying ?
KEVIN: No idea .
NADIA: Perfect . She turns to Jim .
JIM: Uh
NADIA: Move with the music .
JIM: Umokay
NADIA: No , no , you must put your whole body into it .
JIM: Nadia , I ca n't
NADIA: Ca n't what ? Do you not want to be with me ? I wish to be entertained , James .
STIFLER: What the fuck is this ?
SHERMAN: The horror , the horror .
STONER #2: God , what a buzzkill .
NADIA: More sexy , Jim , more sexy .
FINCH: This is truly revolting .
NADIA: More , more , you bad boy ! Jim starts spanking his ass as he gyrates .
GUY #1: UghGod
NADIA: Now ! Hames , come to me .
JIM: Oh yeah !
NADIA: Be gentle . Jim GULPS .
KEVIN: Ho-lee shit .
STIFLER: This just got a hell of a lot better .
NADIA: Jim
JIM: Oh no .
KEVIN: Oh no .
STONER #1: Bummer .
STIFLER'S BROTHER: What happened ? ! What happened ? !
STIFLER: He blew it . Literally .
NADIA: You are done , James . Perhaps I should e going now .
JIM: No , no , I 'm not done ! I 've got eserves ! Nadia , please please please . I 'm begging you .
NADIA: I do like your dirty magazines .
JIM: Did you see this ? This is your more exotic dirty magazine .
NADIA: YesJames , it is knowing that these eautiful women arouse you that arouses me
JIM: Oh yes . Very arousing women . They arouse me very much . But not as arousing as you . She goes for this line . Gives in .
NADIA: Oh Jim She grabs him . Starts caressing his body .
STONER #1: Alright , dude !
GUY #1: He 's re-engaging ! A CHEER goes up as the guys CELEBRATE .
NADIA: So , `` shaved '' is the expression ?
JIM: Holy shit .
KEVIN: Holy shit !
NADIA: Touch me Jimhere .
GIRLS: Again ?
KEVIN: Not again .
JIM: No , not again .
NADIA: I am sorry , Jim . I suppose we will not be doing any studying now .
JIM: No ! I 've gotreserve reserves !
NADIA: It is too bad . I was at first hoping you would ask me to the prom . But She gathers her things . Eyes Jim over . NADIA You should change your shorts .
JIM: okay .
COMPUTER VOICE: `` You have lost your internet connection . Click 'okay ' to econnect . ''
KEVIN: Hey , minuteman .
JIM: Shut up . You 're supposed to be supportive .
OZ: You 've still got a chance with Nadia , ight ?
JIM: No . Her sponsors here saw the thing on the net . I do n't think they liked it .
KEVIN: How do you know that ?
JIM: She 's already on a plane back home . Kevin winces . JIM You know , maybe I 'm just not good with girls , period . Like I was born without that part of the brain . I mean , I ca n't talk to girls . And when I do talk to them , I screw it up .
KEVIN: Yeah ? Well come prom night , those excuses are n't going to do you much good .
JIM: Jesus , Kevin , rub it in .
MICHELLE: And so , one time ? I was at band camp ? And we were n't supposed to have pillow fights ? But we had a pillow fight ! And it was so much fun ! Jim could n't care . MICHELLE And one time , we all lost our music ? And we were supposed to play this song ? But we did n't know it . So we just made it up ! And we kept playing and playing but the conductor did n't know what we were doing and it was so funny !
JIM: Hold on . You have no idea why I 'm angry ?
MICHELLE: Is it because we have a test tomorrow ? Sometimes I get cranky when I know I have a big test to study for .
JIM: Yeah , that 's pretty much it .
MICHELLE: I thought so . Because , one time ? I was at this
JIM: What was your name again ?
MICHELLE: Michelle .
JIM: Okay . Michelle , do you want to be my date for the prom ?
MICHELLE: Really ? You seriously want to go with me ?
JIM: Yes . Seriously .
MICHELLE: Are we going to Steve Stifler 's party afterwards ? That would be so cool .
JIM: Whatever you want .
MICHELLE: Cool ! We 're gon na have so much fun ! It 's like this one time , at band camp
OZ: Dammit !
KEVIN: You 're not doing the extra credit problems .
VICKY: No , I 'm not . I 'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like I 'm doing the extra credit problems . Mr. Bender does n't bother to check homework past April .
KEVIN: That 's my trick !
VICKY: It 's everyone 's trick , Kevin . But I did pick it up from you .
KEVIN: We 've come a long way since Homecoming .
VICKY: Yeah , we have . You corrupted my four- point into a three-nine-five .
KEVIN: Indeed I did . But , our relationship . It 's progressed a lot . It 's time fo us toexpress ourselves in new ways .
VICKY: Like how ?
KEVIN: Well , I feel thatthings are getting to that point in a relationship . When two people sharea special moment between them .
VICKY: I think you 're so right , Kevin .
KEVIN: You want to do it ?
VICKY: Yes
KEVIN: No , I do n't not love you . I like , I know that we 've definitely got u > something between us . Something good . Something special .
VICKY: But you do n't love me .
KEVIN: I did n't say that . I mean , love , it 's like a term that gets thrown around . People say things , they get married , have kids , and then what ? It 's like they call it off , going `` I was wrong . ''
VICKY: Kevinyou 're not your dad . The two of us , we 're not your parents .
KEVIN: I know , Vick . I 'm just not ready yet , okay ?
VICKY: Okay .
HEATHER: Hi
OZ: How did you know I was here ?
HEATHER: Stifler told me .
OZ: You talked to Stifler ?
HEATHER: WellI needed to find you . We are gon na have to practice that song .
OZ: okay . Cool then . I 'm um , I 'm glad you came by . I mean , really . She smiles . Oz lets her in .
HEATHER: So you like , work nights ? An uncomfortable moment for Oz .
OZ: Uhmy dad 's the manager .
HEATHER: Really ? Cool . Tell him his subs are great .
OZ: Ah , he 's always too heavy on the vinegar . If you really want a good one , you got ta let me make it .
HEATHER: That 's nice .
OZ: So you 're going to Michigan ?
HEATHER: Yeah , well my parents wanted me to go to Northwestern . I did n't want to write all those extra essays they make you do I mean , how am I supposed to know what my `` most emotionally significant moment '' was ? So when my U of M acceptance came in December , I said the hell with it .
OZ: Onions ?
HEATHER: What ?
OZ: You want onions ?
HEATHER: Oh , yeah . So what 're you gon na majo in ?
OZ: Well , State 's got a good business school . And I can probably walk onto the lacrosse team . Green peppers ?
HEATHER: Yeah . So wow , you 've got it figured out .
OZ: Well , I mean , business is okay , and lacrosse is awesome , but what am I gon na be , a pro lacrosse player ? I eally have no idea .
HEATHER: Oh thank God , I thought I was the only one .
OZ: Well , you 're not . Oil and vinegar ?
HEATHER: Yeah . You know , people are always like , `` What 're you gon na major in ? '' And I do n't know . And they 're like , `` You 'll figure it out . '' Yeah ? When ?
OZ: I know . Salt and pepper ?
HEATHER: Sure .
OZ: You oh , you mean yeah , East Lansing and Ann Arbor .
HEATHER: yeah . A beata little uncomfortable , but nice .
OZ: Wan na swap your chips for cookies ?
STIFLER: You got ta be fucking kidding .
KEVIN: Heywhat was that all about ?
JESSICA: No comment .
KEVIN: No comment ? ! Are you kidding me ? ! I 've never seen someone 's image change soso drastically !
JESSICA: Thanks . It was my idea .
KEVIN: Did you guys hook up or something ?
JESSICA: Are you kidding ? No .
KEVIN: Then what the hell are you talking about ?
JESSICA: WellI guess it 's okay for me to tell you now . That reputation of his is n't going anywhere . Finch comes to me and says , `` Jessica , I need help with this , blah blah , etcetera . '' So I told him , pay me two- hundred bucks , and I 'll tell a couple girls that you 're dynamite in bed . So he did , and I did .
KEVIN: I do n't get it , that really works ?
JESSICA: Duh . Of course . Naturally , I embellished a little bit . Hey , did you hear that Finch had sex with an older woman ? Kevin is speechless .
OZ: I needed the shelter of someone 's armsthere you were woo-hoo- hoo
STIFLER: Oh my fucking God . You 're gay .
OZ: Come on , you know the words , sing along .
STIFLER: No thanks , you 've been singing that shit all week . If you try that at MSU this Saturday , I 'm pretending I do n't know you . Oz stops .
OZ: Our last game is this Saturday .
STIFLER: No shit .
OZ: I 've got this lacrosse game . It 's eally important , it 's our last game . And you know , Central almost beat us last time , so I really want to kick their ass , and it 's like cool because we 're gon na get to play at State , which means that after the game I might be able to stop by
HEATHER: You ca n't sing at the competition .
OZ: I 'm sorry , I totally spaced . I justI did n't realize it
HEATHER: it 's okay , you should do whateve makes you happy .
OZ: Alrightyeahthanks fo understanding . So I guessI 'll see you later .
STIFLER: Kevin ! You seen Shitbreak lately ?
KEVIN: Oh no , Stifler , what did you do ?
STIFLER: Me ? Nothing . I 'm the one whose ass he kicked . I 'll tell you one thing , though . I do n't think he 's gon na have a problem shitting in school anymore .
KEVIN: Finch ! Get to the bathroom ! Now !
FINCH: Easy , tiger . What 's in there ?
KEVIN: Just go !
FINCH: Why is this ?
KEVIN: You 're gon na shit your pants !
FINCH: Charming .
KEVIN: Finch , listen Stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your Mocash-chino or whatever . It 's fast acting . I mean really fast .
FINCH: First of all , it 's Mochaccino , and secondlyOohhhh ! Finch jumps up and sprints down the hallway .
STIFLER: This way , sit .
FINCH: Come on come on come on
GIRL #2: You 're just saying that cause prom 's a week away and you do n't have a date .
GIRL #3: Of course , it was Stifler 's mom .
GIRL #2: Joanie , was that you ?
FINCH: Aaaaaaarrrgghhhh !
ALBERT: No problemo .
COACH MARSHALL: Alright ! Good hustle , guys , but we can still lose . You all saw what happened to Oz out there . I do n't ever want to see you guys thinking < /u you 're gon na score . You do n't score until you score , period .
ALBERT: Focus on the music . Think melody . Let the music be my guide .
HEATHER: That would be a start .
COACH MARSHALL: It all boils down to today . For you seniors , this marks the culmination of your past four years . Think of what that means to you . Are you guys gon na look back on your days at East and know that you made the most of the time you had ?
OZ: Good luck , guys .
COACH MARSHALL: Christ ! I did n't say you were out of the game !
OZ: Sorry , coach .
COACH MARSHALL: What the fuck is this ? You got someplace more important to be ?
OZ: Yeah . He runs off .
ALBERT: Oh , great .
HEATHER: What about the game ? !
OZ: I 'm not playing .
HEATHER: You 're missing the game for us ? !
OZ: No . I 'm missing the game for you .
JIM: Yeeeeeeeaaaawwwwww !
KEVIN: You fuckin ' rule !
VICKY: Did you know that it's450 miles from Ann Arbor to Nashville ?
KEVIN: It 's like a six or seven hour drive . That 's easy , I do n't mind driving .
VICKY: So have I . And I know you want to make things perfect for me . And I understand that you really would n't tell me that until you were 100 % comfortable with it .
KEVIN: Yeah , we have something great , Vick .
VICKY: Kevin I want to have sex with you .
KEVIN: Now ? !
VICKY: NoI know the perfect time
MICHELLE: You know , at band camp ? We have dances like this . Only they 're way funner . Do n't you think prom is just highly overrated ?
JIM: Highly , highly overrated .
FINCH: Okay . I 'm here for your dumbdum meeting . Sherman passes by .
SHERMAN: I 'm on the offensive , boys . The Sherman Tank is going back in .
KEVIN: Alright , how do you guys stand ? Well , Finch , I know where you are , but you ca n't use that as an excuse . Jim ?
JIM: My date 's a flute-toting band dork . That answer your question ?
KEVIN: Oz , how about you and Heather ? Now you guys are a couple or something ?
OZ: Dammit , Kevin , what 's with the attitude ?
KEVIN: Attitude ? Me ? I think that you guys should be more enthusiastic . Shit , we 've been trying to get laid forever , and tonight 's the night we 've been waiting for . We 're in this together . Do n't back out on me now !
JIM: Back out ? You do n't need us to get laid . You afraid or something ?
KEVIN: No , but come on guys , we made a pact !
OZ: Kevin , it was just a
KEVIN: It was a pact . You break it and there are no excuses . You guys have to
JIM: I do n't have to do shit ! Forget it already ! Kevin is taken aback . JIM I 'm tired of all this bullshit pressure ! I mean , I 've never even had sex and already I ca n't stand it ! I hate sex ! I do n't want it , I 've neve wanted it , and I 'm not gon na sit here usting my balls over something that just is n't that damn important ! So fuck this stupid pact , fuck you , and fuck sex ! Now , I 'm gon na go hang out with that geek over there , 'cause at least she 's got something else to talk about besides sex ! God damn ! Kevin storms off . A beat .
FINCH: At least I learned how to shit in school .
JESSICA: Hey , Finch . Wan na dance ?
FINCH: How come you have no date ?
JESSICA: I like to keep my options open . And let me just clarify that you have no chance of scoring with me , Finch .
FINCH: No , of course not , do n't be idiculous .
VICKY: So , I guess you and Sherman are pretty close . You met at that party a while ack ?
CENTRAL GIRL: Yeah , we were up the whole night together . We had one of those amazingly deep conversations , where you really feel like you get to know someone .
VICKY: `` Deep conversation , '' huh ? Is that what you guys call it ?
CENTRAL GIRL: What else would I call it ?
OZ: Guess what ?
KEVIN: I do n't care .
JIM: Kevin , come on , the bus to Stifler 's is gon na be here soon .
KEVIN: I 'm not going .
OZ: I still think you 're okay .
JIM: So do I , Kev .
FINCH: Me too . For the most part .
KEVIN: Nah . Fuck , you guys are right , I do n't know what I 'm doing . I mean I 'm acting like I 've got it all togethe tonight . But I know Vicky is gon na ask me if I love her . And I do n't know what I 'm gon na say . So now it 's like , maybe I 'll just wimp out on the whole thing .
JIM: Come on man . Tonight is the night . We 're finally going to a post-prom party on the lake . We 've been waiting to do this for the last four years . Why else are we still friends with Stifler ? You got ta go . A beat as Kevin ponders this .
OZ: And by the way , Sherman did n't even get laid .
KEVIN: He did n't ?
FINCH: Nope . He pissed himself .
JIM: There it is . I want to grab my bag . Oh , and my date .
OZ: Come on , Kevin . Vicky 's looking fo you .
JIM: Stifler 's mom got it in the divorce .
MICHELLE: It reminds me of this one time Hey , can I ask you a question ? How come you do n't have any stories ? I 've got lots of stories , and you do n't have any .
JIM: Oh , I 've got stories , believe me . They 're a little more risque than tales of Band Camp .
MICHELLE: Are they gross or something , like guy stuff ? Tell me .
JIM: Okay . You want a story ? Here 's a story . Stifler finds this beer , ight ? And
KEVIN: See this is the nicest room .
VICKY: Wow , Kevit 's perfect .
STIFLER'S BROTHER: You guys are gon na fuck , are n't you ! ?
KEVIN: No ! Get out of here !
STIFLER'S BROTHER: Fuckers fuckers fuckers fuckers !
OZ: There 's something I 've been meaning to tell you , Heather .
HEATHER: What 's that ?
OZ: It 's gon na sound really bad , but I want you to know .
HEATHER: This is n't the best way to proposition me .
OZ: No , that 's not what I mean . I mean look . You know what made me leave that game ? Coach was giving this speech , about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score .
HEATHER: This is n't any better , Chris .
OZ: No , see Heather , what I realized is thatwith you , it 's not like I 'm unning towards the goal , trying to figure out the best way to score . And this may sound corny , but He takes her hand . OZ I feel like I 've already won . Heather softens , taken off guard . OZ And , well , I really care about you . A lot . And I want you to know that .
HEATHER: Oz , it 's okay , I know .
OZ: You called me Oz .
HEATHER: Well , that 's what your friends call you . I meanI feel like I 'm one of your friends nowand alsoyou girlfriend . Oz seems truly touched .
OZ: Dieter . My middle name is Dieter . Heather nods , and speaks pensively .
HEATHER: Hmm . You know that 's eally a shitty middle name !
OZ: I know , it sucks !
FINCH: Ah , Stifler 's mom ! Thank you fo letting us have a great party .
STIFLER'S MOM: As if there were any alternative in the matter . Are you enjoying yourself ?
FINCH: I 'm three sheets to the wind , ma'am !
STIFLER'S MOM: I 'm so happy for you . Takes the edge off , does n't it ? And where might you date be ?
FINCH: Oh no , no date . Bathroom incident .
STIFLER'S MOM: Pardon me ? Finch pauses a moment . He 's got an idea .
FINCH: Nevermind . You have anything to drink ?
STIFLER'S MOM: I believe the kegs are upstairs .
FINCH: No , no , that 's what the cretins drink . I mean alcohol , liquor good stuff .
STIFLER'S MOM: All right , I got some scotch .
FINCH: Single malt ?
STIFLER'S MOM: Aged eighteen years . Why do n't you get the glasses . Behind the bar .
MICHELLE: That is a nasty story !
JIM: I told you .
MICHELLE: You wan na hear a nasty story of mine ? It 's kind of sexual . Ding ! A light goes off in Jim 's head .
JIM: Yeah , bring it on !
MICHELLE: Well , this one time ? At band camp ? We were playing this game , I do n't know if you know it ? But it 's called spin the bottle ? And I had to kiss this guy named Marc Wander on the lips ? And Jim 's expression sinks .
KEVIN: You comfortable ?
VICKY: Yeah , are you ?
KEVIN: Yeah . A beat .
VICKY: You sure you 're comfortable ?
KEVIN: Yeah . Are you sure ?
VICKY: Yeah .
KEVIN: Me too .
VICKY: Okay . Did you bring a condom ?
KEVIN: Yeah , right here .
VICKY: I do n't know . How do you ?
KEVIN: Like , normal style . Themissionary position .
VICKY: Okay .
KEVIN: Yeah Vick ?
VICKY: I want to hear you say it .
KEVIN: Okay . Kevin swallows hard . And says
VICKY: I love you . They both take a deep breath .
OZ: I ca n't think of anything to say that 's not cheesy .
HEATHER: Then do n't . They kiss . It 's time .
VICKY: Here .
JIM: So , the end of the story isyou had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds ?
MICHELLE: Yes ! And he was such a dork ! And everyone laughed at me , but I did n't care ? Because it was so funny !
JIM: Okay , I get it .
MICHELLE: Oh ! And then this one time ? At band camp ? I stuck a flute in my pussy .
JIM: excuse me ? !
MICHELLE: What , you think I do n't know how to get myself off ? Hell , that 's what half of band camp is ! Sex ed !
JIM: This 'll do .
MICHELLE: Now , I have two rubbers . Wear them oth , it 'll desensitize you . I do n't want you coming so damn early .
JIM: Why , uh , what makes you think that I
MICHELLE: Come on . I saw you on the net . Why do you think I accepted this date ? You 're a sure thing ! Jim heartily agrees .
FINCH: Sowould you object if I said you 're quite striking ?
STIFLER'S MOM: Mister Finch are you trying to seduce me ?
FINCH: Yes ma'am , I am .
JIM: Hail , hail , to Michigan , the leaders and best !
STIFLER'S BROTHER: That was awesome ! Jim and Michelle are stunned .
STIFLER: Ughoh no
JIM: She 's gone . He considers this . JIM Oh my God . She used me . He considers this further . Smiles . JIM Wow ! I was used ! Cool !
KEVIN: That was a great night .
VICKY: Yeah . A beat .
KEVIN: I ca n't believe we just had our senio prom .
VICKY: Yeah , the time went by so fast .
KEVIN: It did . Another beat .
VICKY: Kevin , next yearwith you in Ann Arbor , and me in Nashvilleit 's not gon na work , is it .
KEVIN: Do n't say that , we can do it somehow . It might not be perfect , but
VICKY: No , Kevin That 's the whole thing , that 's what I 've been realizing . That nothing 's perfect , that you ca n't plan everything . Kevin thinks this over .
KEVIN: It is far awayand we 'll be on ou ownmeeting new people A moment as they think this over .
VICKY: I know . Let 's go . Do n't you have something to tell your friends ?
KEVIN: What ?
VICKY: Your little pact . Jessica told me all about it . Way to go , Kev ! Kevin gives an embarrassed smile .
KEVIN: I guess we 'll call you two-ply .
OZ: Yeah . So you want double condiments on that ?
JIM: No , no that 's fine . So you doing okay ?
KEVIN: Yeah .
FINCH: I 'll tell you , I 've learned one thing women , like wine , get better with age . Of course , I have no frame of eference for this comparison .
KEVIN: So Oz , you almost made it , huh ?
OZ: I 'll just say that we had a great night together .
JIM: Hang in there , buddy , you 'll get there .
OZ: I know .
KEVIN: Wow . You two really have something going , do n't you ?
OZ: I think we 're falling in love . They GROAN . Oz just smiles .
KEVIN: You know what the coolest thing is ? This , right now . They guys keep eating , uncertain what to say .
OZ: It 's true . I mean , after this , everything 'll be different .
JIM: After getting laid ?
OZ: After high school .
KEVIN: Yeah , but we 'll still see each other .
OZ: Fuck yeah we will . A beat . Kevin raises his Pepsi .
KEVIN: To the next step .
ALL: To the next step . They all toast .
KEVIN: Hey . I got another question for you .
JIM'S DAD: Son . That 's the best damn story I ever heard . Jim beams proudly .
BELLBOY: Another bottle ?
WAITER: He knows how to treat a woman .
JIM: Thanks guys .
NADIA: Come back to bed , James .
WAITER: That is one lucky man .
BELLBOY: Funny I swear I have seen those two somewhere before . The boy is some sort of dancer . They head off .
AGENT COOPER: Liberty 's moving .
JANIE: The 10 15 event 's been moved inside to the Indian Treaty Room .
SHEPHERD: The 10 15 is American Fisheries ?
JANIE: Yes , sir . They 're giving you a 200-pound halibut .
SHEPHERD: Janie , make a note . We need to schedule more events where somebody gives me a really big fish . JANIE starts to make a note .
JANIE: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: Janie , I was kidding .
JANIE: Of course , sir .
SHEPHERD: Hey , Cooper .
AGENT COOPER: 'Morning , Mr. President .
JANIE: Mr. Rothschild asked to have a moment with you this morning .
SHEPHERD: Is he upset about the speech last night ?
JANIE: He seemed concerned .
SHEPHERD: Well , it would n't be a Monday morning unless Lewis was concerned about something I did Sunday night .
LEWIS: You skipped the whole paragraph .
SHEPHERD: And Monday morning it is .
LEWIS: `` American can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society '' and then nothing . You dumped the whole handguns paragraph .
SHEPHERD: This is a time for prudence , Lewis .
LEWIS: That was the kick-ass section .
SHEPHERD: I thought what with being the President and all
LEWIS: Sir , of course I did n't mean to imply
SHEPHERD: I thought you 'd be turning cartwheels this morning , Lewis 63 percent jo approval .
LEWIS: That 's great news , sir , but
GROUNDKEEPER: 'Morning , Mr. President .
JANIE: Charlie .
SHEPHERD: 'Morning , Charlie .
LEWIS: Sir , the press is gon na need an explanation .
SHEPHERD: For what ?
LEWIS: Because you dropped the whole kick-ass section , now we 've got this thing hanging out there .
SHEPHERD: There 's a thing hanging out there ?
LEWIS: `` Americans can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society . '' Then nothing . No explanation . No context . So now it 's just this thing .
SHEPHERD: And it 's hanging out there ?
LEWIS: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: Maria
LEWIS: Mr. President , I really feel we need to focus on
SHEPHERD: Lewis , however much coffee you drink in the morning , I want you to reduce it y half .
LEWIS: I do n't drink coffee .
SHEPHERD: Then hit yourself over the head with a baseball bat , would you please ? Another STAFFER crosses their path
JANIE: Happy birthday , Laura .
SHEPHERD: Hey , Laura , happy birthday .
JANIE: You already did , sir .
MRS. CHAPIL: Good morning , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: How 're you , Mrs. Chapil ?
MRS. CHAPIL: Fine , thank you , sir . Mr. Kodak left the detailed breakdown of the approval poll for you . He seemed to indicate that it was very good news .
SHEPHERD: Sixty-three percent of it , at any rate .
MRS. CHAPIL: Lucy called just a moment ago . You forgot to sign her permission slip for her class
JANIE: the museum trip . I 'll go get it .
SHEPHERD: What time does she get home today ?
JANIE: Three-twenty .
SHEPHERD: How 's my afternoon look ?
JANIE: Very crowded .
SHEPHERD: Schedule some time for me at 3 30 .
ROBIN: I did n't truly appreciate it until I came back and discovered that America is n't a great society .
LEWIS: He dumped a whole section .
SHEPHERD: Now there 's a thing hanging out there .
ROBIN: Not a great society , sir ?
SHEPHERD: Well , with you out of the country , it was n't , Robin . Now that you 're back , we 're great again .
ROBIN: There 's a press room full of people saying `` What did he mean by that ? ''
LEWIS: See ?
SHEPHERD: A.J. , did you get one of these ?
ROBIN: Are they blaming the President fo global warming ?
LEWIS: What they want is a 20 percent reduction in fossil fuel emissions .
SHEPHERD: Talk to the GDC again , A.J . Tell them the President resents the implication that he 's turned his back on the environment . Tell them I 'll send 455 to the floor . But we 're gon na ask for a 10 percent reduction . If they want to pull their support , fine . At 63 percent jo approval rating . I do n't need their help getting a bill passed . We got ta get going where 's Leon ?
KODAK: Excuse me . Good morning , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: You all right ?
KODAK: They keep moving that big ficus plant .
SHEPHERD: Okay . First , I wanted to say congratulations . Three years ago , we were elected to the White House by one of the narrowest margins in history , and today Kodak tells us 63 percent of egistered voters think we 're doing a good job .
KODAK: Wait a second . You wanted me to poll egistered voters ? Everyone LAUGHS even SHEPHERD smiles
SHEPHERD: But the poll also tells us what we already knew We do n't get this crime bill of ours through Congress and these numbers are gon na be a memory . So , starting today , we 're shifting it into gear .
ROBIN: Can I tell my morning press gaggle that gun control
LEWIS: Hang on , are we not
SHEPHERD: After the elections .
LEWIS: Sir , we may never have an opportunity like this again . Let 's take this 63 percent out for a spin and see what it can do .
SHEPHERD: We ca n't take it out for a spin , Lewis . We need it to get re-elected . Fo easons passing understanding , people do not relate guns to gun-related crime .
ROBIN: Got it .
KODAK: Scare the shit out of 'em ?
LEWIS: Can I just say , to return to the subject for one moment , that it might e easier to fight a war on drugs if we were n't arming drug dealers .
SHEPHERD: Lewis , we 've got ta fight the fights we can win .
LEWIS: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: Eighteen votes in 72 days . Thank you , everyone . Janie , what 's next ?
JANIE: Security briefing , sir .
SUSAN: Did the President read the letter ?
LEO: The President 's pissed as hell , Susan . That letter was a stupid move .
SUSAN: It was aggressive , and we should stand by every
LEO: This is n't the guy who needed us fou years ago , Susan . He 's incredibly popular . He 's gon na win re-election in a walk , and he could give a shit what we stand by ! If the President passes the most important piece of environmental legislation in history , and does it despite our negative endorsement , our political weight in the future will rank somewhere below the Save the Spotted Owl Society . I 'm bringing in some help .
SUSAN: We do n't need another environmental expert to confirm what every othe environmental expert
LEO: Not an environmental expert , a professional political strategist . We 're playing hardball with Andrew Shepherd , and we need a heavy bat .
SUSAN: Who ?
LEO: Sydney Ellen Wade .
SUSAN: Oh Christ . That woman does n't know the first thing about the environmental lobby .
LEO: She 's a closer , Susan . She gets the job done .
SHEPHERD: Try it like this and lose that .
ROBIN: David Sasser from the Times called and wanted to know what the White House felt was a great society .
LEWIS: What did you tell him ?
ROBIN: I told him I could n't speak for the President , but for my money Bermuda .
SHEPHERD: Perfect . JANIE steps in
JANIE: Mr. President , your cousin Judith 's come down with the flu and wo n't be able to join you Thursday night .
SHEPHERD: That 's too bad . Remind me to give her a call later .
JANIE: Yes , sir .
ROBIN: You gon na go stag ?
SHEPHERD: That 's not a problem .
ROBIN: No . We 've never gone wrong parading you around as the lonely widower .
SHEPHERD: That 's okay , forget it . What time is it ?
JANIE: It 's 3 45 , sir .
SHEPHERD: I 'm gon na go over and say hi to Lucy .
JANIE: You have the Attorney General at 4 00 and the trade representative at 4 30 . Somewhere in there you promised NPR five minutes .
ROBIN: Mr. President
SHEPHERD: Robin , do n't worry about it .
LUCY: Scales .
SHEPHERD: Well you play it with gusto !
LUCY: Are my lips swollen ?
SHEPHERD: Are they supposed to be ?
LUCY: Yeah .
SHEPHERD: Then you 're doing fine .
LUCY: Whatcha got behind your back ?
SHEPHERD: A little gift .
LUCY: Is it a dirt bike ?
SHEPHERD: Nope . He hands her an old textbook
LUCY: Is it a really old seventh-grade textbook of yours that you 're gon na make me read cover to cover and discuss at dinner and drive me crazy with ?
SHEPHERD: I 'm not comfortable with the `` really old '' part , but everything else you said was true .
LUCY: `` Understanding the Constitution . ''
SHEPHERD: Your social studies teacher said you class would be starting on the Constitution this week .
LUCY: You talked to Mr. Linder ?
SHEPHERD: Yes . It 's called a Parent-Teache Conference . Mr. Linder and I were the key player in that discussion . Why do n't you like social studies , Luce ?
LUCY: I like it fine , Dad .
SHEPHERD: All your other teachers say you 're happy , you 're enthusiastic , you 've always got your hand upMr . Linde says you do n't participate unless he calls on you , and even then it 's a one-word answer .
LUCY: I do n't know what to say , Dad . I guess I 'm just notI do n't know .
SHEPHERD: Luce , take a look at this book . This is exciting stuff . It 's about who we are and what we want . Read what it says on the first page .
LUCY: `` Property of Gilmore Junior High School . ''
SHEPHERD: The next page .
LUCY: `` We , the People , of the United States , in order to form a more perfect union ''
SHEPHERD: See ? Grabs you right off the bat . It 's a page-turner .
LUCY: I ca n't wait .
SHEPHERD: Good , 'cause it 's possible the subject might come up at dinner tonight .
LUCY: Do you see it as part of your job to torture me ?
SHEPHERD: No , it 's just one of the perks . See you tonight .
DEFENSE SECRETARY: The C-STAD hardware 's been in place for a month . We 've got 22 instructors from the Army Air Defense School waiting to go down and train the Israelis .
CHAIRMAN: We can airlift 'em in the morning . They 'll have C-STAD operational in 20 days .
SECURITY ADVISOR: If anybody wanted to hit it , they 'd have hit it by now .
SHEPHERD: Okay . Let 's move on it . Thank you , gentlemen .
MRS. CHAPIL: You too , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: I 'll see you in the morning , Janie .
JANIE: You will , Mr. President . A SECRET SERVICE AGENT follows at a distance .
AGENT #2: Liberty is moving .
SHEPHERD: It 's about time .
SHEPHERD: Listen , Robin said something to me today that I 'm sure she would n't have said it ifI mean , she was n't saying it to me , I realize Ah , never mind . Have a good night .
SYDNEY: Hi , my name 's Sydney Ellen Wade .
SUSAN: He just needs your driver 's license . SUSAN hands the guard her license .
SYDNEY: I 'm from Virginia .
SUSAN: He does n't care .
SYDNEY: I 'm here for a meeting with Mr. MacInerney .
SUSAN: He does n't need to know that . The GUARD BUZZES her through the gate .
SYDNEY: Forgive me , this is my first time at the White House . I 'm trying to savo the Capra-esque quality .
SUSAN: He does n't know what Capra-esque means .
GUARD: Yeah , I do . Frank Capra , great American director It 's a Wonderful Life , Mr. Smith Goes to Washington . Sydney Ellen Wade of Virginia . Knock 'em dead .
SYDNEY: Thanks .
SHEPHERD: The day the government starts subsidizing private schools is the day we give up on public education .
EDUCATION SECRETARY: I know the proposal only scratches the surface , but it 's the least we can do .
SHEPHERD: We 're already doing the least we can do , but I ca n't think of anything etter , so we 'll go with this for now . Jerry , say hello to Linda for me . And if I do n't see you again , have a good Thanksgiving .
HUD SECRETARY: Thank you , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: How 're we doing ?
JANIE: You 're running four minutes ahead of schedule .
SHEPHERD: Ahead ?
JANIE: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: Janie , this is unprecedented . I do n't know what to do with myself .
JANIE: Mr. MacInerney asked me to remind you to pop your head in on
SHEPHERD: The GDC meeting . Right .
SYDNEY: Hardly an impressive distinction , A.J . SUSAN is trying to avert the inevitable
SUSAN: Sydney , we should leave Mr. MacInerney alone now . He 's already given us more time than
SYDNEY: Susan , Mr. MacInerney does n't want us to leave , because Mr. MacInerney 's not yet done what he needs to do today .
SUSAN: Sir , Ms. Wade 's been thrown into the deep end of the pool on her first day . She has n't even had a chance to read the report of the Quebec Conference .
SYDNEY: You 're right . I have n't read it . If someone had asked me yesterday , I 'd have told them the Quebec Conference was made up of six professional hockey teams . But what I do know is that it 's time for the President to run fo president again . Leon Kodak is as good as it gets when it comes to electoral strategy , and I 'm certain he 's told the President exactly what I 'd tell him Nail down Michigan and California , where they make cars and airplanes and burn plenty of fossil fuel . But if I had read these eight hundred pages , I would have discovered that it 's the urning of fossil fuels that 's been mostly responsible for global warming and that the 20 percent reduction recommended y the GDC is a necessary first step toward arresting the catastrophic greenhouse effect that has gone unchecked by this administration
SUSAN: It 's really time to
SYDNEY: Susan , I promise you , the White House Chief of Staff will not let us leave here until he 's broken the bad news .
SUSAN: Sydney !
SYDNEY: the President has critically misjudged reality . If he honestly thinks that the environmental community is going to whistle a happy tune while rallying support around this pitifully lame mockery of environmental leadership just because he 's a nice guy and he 's done bette than his predecessors , then your boss is the Chief Executive of Fantasyland .
SHEPHERD: Could n't be better . I apologize for the interruption , but A.J . asked me to stop and say hello . You would n't be Sydney Ellen Wade , by any chance , would you ?
SYDNEY: Mr. President , I'mdo n't know what to say . I 'm speechless .
SHEPHERD: All evidence to the contrary .
SUSAN: Mr. President , we have n't met . My name is Susan Sloan . I used to work with Congressman Myers . I hope this episode in no way
SHEPHERD: Sydney ?
SYDNEY: Yes , sir ?
SHEPHERD: You got a second ?
SYDNEY: Of course .
SHEPHERD: I thought maybe we might have a word in private . Someplace a little less intimidating . Janie ?
JANIE: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: This is my personal assistant , Janie Basdin . Janie , would you show Ms. Wade into the rec room . I 'll be there in a second .
JANIE: This way JANIE leads SYDNEY into
SHEPHERD: Sorry to keep you waiting .
SYDNEY: Mr. President
SHEPHERD: Is it okay if I call you Sydney ?
SYDNEY: Of course . Mr. President
SHEPHERD: Have you ever been in the Oval Office ?
SYDNEY: I 've just been on the regular tour . It did n't include
SHEPHERD: I hear it 's pretty good .
SYDNEY: Mr. President , what you saw in there was nothing more than vanity run amok . I was showing off for a colleague who does n't think very much of me . It 'd e a real injustice for you to hold the GDC accountable for my behavior today . On top of which , I 'm monumentally sorry for having insulted you like that .
SHEPHERD: Are you under the impression that I 'm mad at you ?
SYDNEY: Well
SHEPHERD: Sydney , seldom does a day go by that I 'm not burned in effigy .
SYDNEY: Not by a professional political operative standing 30 feet from the Oval Office .
SHEPHERD: No , I 'll give you that .
SYDNEY: Mr. President
SHEPHERD: Did you know that when the City Planners sat down to design Washington , D.C. , their intention was to build a city that would intimidate and humble foreign heads of state ? It 's true .
SYDNEY: I did n't know that .
SHEPHERD: The White House has the single greatest home court advantage in the modern world .
SYDNEY: Learned that one the hard way .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , this bill is important to me .
SYDNEY: Yes , sir , I 'll convey your message .
SHEPHERD: But you do n't believe me ?
SYDNEY: The GDC is asking for 20 percent , sir .
SHEPHERD: It 's not gon na pass at 20 percent . It 's a long shot at 10 .
SYDNEY: How do you know that until you put the full weight of the White House ehind
SHEPHERD: Sydney , at 20 percent , we are 34 votes shy in the House . It ca n't be done . But I tell you what . I 'll make you a deal with you . If you can get 24 votes , I 'll get you the last 10 .
SYDNEY: Twenty-four votes ?
SHEPHERD: If you can swing 24 votes by the State of the Union , I 'll promise you full White House support .
SYDNEY: Do I have your word on that , sir ?
SHEPHERD: Absolutely . Listen , are you hungry ? I skipped breakfast . You wan na have some coffee ? A donut or something ?
SYDNEY: Sir , I 'm a little intimidated by my surroundings , and yes , I 've gotten off to a rocky and somewhat stilted eginning , but do n't let that diminish the weight of my message The GDC has been at every president for the last decade and a half that global warming is a calamity , the effects of which will be second only to nuclear war . The best scientists in the world have given you every eason to take the GDC seriously . But I 'm gon na give you one more . If you do n't live up to the deal you just made , come New Hampshire , we 're gon na go shopping for a new candidate . SYDNEY heads for the door
SHEPHERD: You ca n't do that , Sydney .
SYDNEY: With all due respect , Mr. President , who 's gon na stop me ?
SHEPHERD: Well , if you go through that door , the United States Secret Service . That 's my private office . You need to go out that way .
SYDNEY: Ah .
SHEPHERD: Should I meet with them ?
JANIE: Yes , sir ?
SHEPHERD: I need you to track down a phone number .
SYDNEY: RichardRichard , it was n't funny . I acted like a college freshman at a protest rally .
BETH: Tell him the part about walking out the wrong door .
SYDNEY: Oh God , I forgot about that . No , RichardRichard , I do n't want to hear your Andrew Shepherd imitation
BETH: I wan na hear it .
SYDNEY: I 'm hanging up now , Richard Tonight ? I was gon na go to bed early and wake up when there 's a new president . She hangs up .
BETH: If he thinks you 're a jerk , I 'm sure he thinks you 're a first-rate jerk .
SYDNEY: I 'll tell you one thing , boy . I egrouped , you got ta gim me that . I pulled it together at the end . I stood in the middle of the Oval Office and I made it very clear that from now on , he who does n't take the GDC seriously does so at his peril !
BETH: And then you walked out the wrong door .
SYDNEY: Are you gon na be throwing that back at me the rest of my life ?
BETH: That 's my current plan , yes . The TELEPHONE RINGS
SYDNEY: That 's gon na be Leo Solomon . He said he 'd call at nine . SYDNEY picks up the phone
SHEPHERD: Uh , hi , is this Sydney ? SYDNEY does n't recognize the voice
SYDNEY: Leo ?
PHONE VOICE: No , this is Andrew Shepherd .
SYDNEY: Andrew Shepherd . You 're hilarious , Richard . You 're a egular riot . And we CROSS-CUT between SYDNEY and SHEPHERD .
SHEPHERD: Uhhthis is n't Richard , it 's Andrew Shepherd .
SYDNEY: Oh , really . Well , I 'm so glad you called , because I forgot to tell you today what a nice ass you have . I 'm also impressed that you were able to get my phone number , considering I do n't have a phone . Good night , Richard . SYDNEY hangs up the phone .
SHEPHERD: This used to be easier .
SYDNEY: I do n't believe this .
BETH: You want me to deal with him ?
SYDNEY: No way . I may choke in front of Shepherd , but Richard Reynolds I can handle . She picks up the phone .
SHEPHERD: Sydney ?
SYDNEY: Are you learning-impaired ? !
SHEPHERD: Listen , do me a favor . Hang up the phone .
SYDNEY: What ?
SHEPHERD: Hang up the phone . Then dial 456-1414 . When you get the White House operator , give her your name and tell her you want to speak to the President . SHEPHERD hangs up .
SYDNEY: This is n't happening to me . She dials .
BETH: What 's going on ?
SYDNEY: It 's not possible I did this twice in one day . The OPERATOR answers .
OPERATOR: Good evening , the White House . SYDNEY swallows .
SYDNEY: My name 's Sydney Ellen Wade . I 'd like to
SHEPHERD: Hello .
SYDNEY: Mr. President , I 'm sure there 's an appropriate thing to say at this moment . Probably some formal apology for the nice-ass remark would be in order . I just do n't quite know how to word it .
SHEPHERD: It 's my fault . I should n't have called you at home . Should I call you at the office tomorrow ?
SYDNEY: No , sir , of course not . I mean yes , you can call me anytime you want this is fine . Right now is fine . When I said `` of course not , '' I meat thatYou know what ? The hell with it I 'm moving to another country .
SHEPHERD: What did you mean when you said you do n't have a phone .
SYDNEY: I just moved to Washington over the weekend , and my apartment is n't ready yet . This is my sister 's apartment . Come to think of it , how did you get this number ?
SHEPHERD: How did I get the number . That 's a easonable question . I do n't know . Probably the FBI .
SYDNEY: The FBI . Sure . 'Cause i-if you want to find someone and you 're the president , that 's who you would call .
SHEPHERD: You know who else is good at that ?
SYDNEY: The C.I.A . ?
SHEPHERD: Well , yeah , but I was thinking of the Internal Revenue Service . They have computer files thatWellI should stop stalling . As I 'm sure you know , the French have elected themselves a new president , and we 're having a formal state dinner at the White House , and I was wondering and you 're under no obligation at all but I thought it might be fun I was wondering if you maybe wanted to gowith me , and uh there it is . That 's why I was calling . There 's a long silence on the phone .
SYDNEY: The President has asked me to join him in representing our country . I 'm honored . I 'm equal to the task . And I wo n't let you down , sir .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , this is just a dinner . We 're not gon na be doing espionage o anything .
SYDNEY: No . Of course . I 'm a littleuhwhat do I do ? I , I mean , where do I go ? Should I meet you ? Will you
SHEPHERD: I 'm gon na have a very nice woman named Marsha Bridgeport call you . She 's the White House Social Director , and she 'll help you with anything you want . Now when she calls you and tells you her name is Marsha Bridgeport , it 'll help if you give her the enefit of the doubt .
SYDNEY: Of course .
SHEPHERD: I 'll see you Thursday night .
SYDNEY: Mr. President , thank you for asking me . Really . This is a first for me .
SHEPHERD: Me too . They hang up .
KODAK: Who 's on Indiana ? Excuse me . New people , I ca n't emember your names . Raise you hand if you 're on Indiana . Two INTERNS raise their hands
LEWIS: We 've got Jarrett .
KODAK: What ?
LEWIS: George Jarrett . He 's ours . Solid `` yes . ''
KODAK: I do n't believe it . You . New guy . `` Jarrett , Democrat , Minnesota . '' Slide his name on ove to `` for . '' We just had his name laminated unde `` Undecided . '' How 'd you get the fence pole out of his butt ?
LEWIS: I wish I could take credit . He just said , `` Lewis , I support the President a hundred percent . '' Not the bill , the President .
KODAK: We got ta do one thing at a time .
LEWIS: We do n't have time to do one thing at a time .
DAVID: Carol , it 's David in Sydney Wade 's office . I want to confirm her lunch with the Congressman .
SYDNEY: We could do with a little party leadership , Mike . Is the Majority Whip takin ' a break ? Congress is in session , right , I 'm not wrong about that ?
LISA: I just got off with Luther Simons . Brock 's on board .
SYDNEY: Terrific !
DAVID: You 're awfully jumpy today . What do you have a big date tonight ?
RUMSON: Lloyd , it 's a long time till next November . Right now , I 'm just looking forward to a pleasant evening .
SHEPHERD: That 's a little tight , Luce .
LUCY: It 's supposed to be tight . It 's supposed to make you look regal .
SHEPHERD: Is it supposed to cut off the blood flow to my face ?
LUCY: All done . He looks in the mirror .
SHEPHERD: Not bad . Where did you learn how to do this ?
LUCY: Social studies .
SHEPHERD: Very funny . Really , where did you learn ?
LUCY: I do n't knowI just guess
SHEPHERD: Sweetie , did Mom teach you how to do this ?
LUCY: Yeah .
SHEPHERD: Lucy , is this okay with you ? My having dinner with a woman ?
LUCY: It 's totally okay .
SHEPHERD: Are you sure ? Because if you want to talk about it
LUCY: Dad , it 's cool . Go for it .
SHEPHERD: You know , I 'm a little nervous .
LUCY: You 'll be fine . Just be yourself .
SHEPHERD: Be myself .
LUCY: And compliment her shoes .
SHEPHERD: Her shoes ?
LUCY: Girls like that .
JANIE: Miss Wade ? The President wants you to join him upstairs in the esidence . May I show you the way ?
SYDNEY: Thank you . I have no idea what I 'm doing here .
SHEPHERD: Sydney . Andrew Shepherd . We spoke on the phone .
SYDNEY: Yes , sir . I remember . ESTHER , MACINERNERY , A.J . 'S wife , joins them .
ESTHER: Sydney , the President told me about how you two met . I think it 's priceless .
SYDNEY: I do n't know what happened . One minute I was calling him a mockery of an environmental leader . The next minute I had a date .
ESTHER: Men like being insulted by women . It makes them feel loved . Do n't ask me why .
SYDNEY: Got it .
SHEPHERD: Mr. President , would allow me to introduce Sydney Ellen Wade of the Commonwealth of Virginia . Sydney , this is President Rene-Jean D'Astie and his wife Monique Danielle D'Astier of France .
SYDNEY: An honor to meet you both .
JANIE: Mr. President , I 'm sorry to interrupt . The receiving line is in place .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , it sounds like our table 's eady .
SYDNEY: They took me through it . After a slight pause
SHEPHERD: This is , actually , only our second State Dinner . The first was for the Emperor of Japan , who died shortly after that , so we stopped having them for a while , just in case .
SYDNEY: I meant do you go out ondo you oftendo you
SHEPHERD: Do I date a lot ?
SYDNEY: Well , yeah .
SHEPHERD: No . How 'bout you ?
SYDNEY: Me ? Lately , I seem to be going out on a lot of first dates .
SHEPHERD: Then you 're experienced at this .
SYDNEY: Oh yeah , you can ask me anything .
SHEPHERD: How are we doing so far ?
SYDNEY: It 's hard to say at this point . So far it 's just your typical first date stuff .
SHEPHERD: Damn . And I wanted to find a way to e different from the other guys . A BOOMING VOICE over the P.A . announces
SYDNEY: Mr. President , the President and Mrs. D'Astier look bored . They 're not talking to anybody .
SHEPHERD: They 're hammered . Esther , do you speak French ?
ESTHER: Latin .
SHEPHERD: I thought you spoke French .
ESTHER: No , Latin .
SHEPHERD: Great , next time Julius Caesar comes to town , you 're our gal . Sydney , I do n't suppose that you speak any
SYDNEY: Monsieur le President , nous sommes tous habilles , nous avons ce merveilleux orchestre , une piece magnifiquecomment se fait-il que les invites ne dansent pas ?
SHEPHERD: That 's my date .
D'ASTIER: Je ne connais pas la tradition en Amerique , mais dans mon pays , si les invites de Louis XVI et Marie Antoinette avaient ose danser devant le roi et la reine , ils auraient perdu la tete .
SYDNEY: Really ?
MADAME D'ASTIER: Absolument .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , you did n't dissolve the NATO treaty , did you ?
SYDNEY: I just said that we 're sitting in this eautiful room , listening to the music of this wonderful orchestra , and I wondered why nobody was dancing .
D'ASTIER: And I informed Ms. Wade that in my country , a guest at the palace of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette would soon find their head in a guillotine if they made the impertinent gesture of dancing without so much as a y-your-leave from the King and the Queen .
SYDNEY: There 's a lesson there , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: More beheadings at the White House ?
SYDNEY: Uh , yeah , I guess . I mean , yes , sir , I 'd love to .
SYDNEY: I do n't know how you do it .
SHEPHERD: Arthur Murray . Six lessons .
SYDNEY: That 's not what I mean . Two hundred pairs of eyes are focused on you ight now , with two questions `` Who 's this girl , and why 's ou president dancing with her ? ''
SHEPHERD: First of all , the 200 pairs of eyes are n't focused on me . They 're focused on you . And the answers are `` Sydney Ellen Wade '' and `` Because she said 'yes . ' ''
LEWIS: They make a nice couple .
ROBIN: Lovely .
LEWIS: We 've got troubles .
ROBIN: Huge . As PEOPLE start onto dance floor , we
SHEPHERD: Good morning , Mrs. Chapil .
MRS. CHAPIL: Good morning , Mr. President . Mr. Rothschild and Miss McCall are in the office , sir . They said they needed to speak with you before scheduling .
SHEPHERD: Fine . Janie , can you get me the number of a local florist ?
JANIE: I 'll take care of it , sir . Where do you want them sent ?
SHEPHERD: I want to do it myself . I just need the phone number .
JANIE: I do n't understand .
SHEPHERD: I want the phone number of a florist .
JANIE: You just want the phone number ?
SHEPHERD: Yeah .
JANIE: I do n't understand , sir , is there
SHEPHERD: I want to send some flowers , Janie . I want to do it myself . I do n't want to staff it out , and I do n't want to issue an Executive Order . I just want a phone number .
JANIE: I 'll get it for you right away , sir .
SHEPHERD: Thank you . He heads into the office .
ROBIN: Mr. President , we need five minutes efore scheduling if you can spare it .
SHEPHERD: I just need two minutes to make a call and I 'll be right with you .
LEWIS: Who are we calling , sir ?
SHEPHERD: I 'm calling the Organization of the United Brotherhood of It's-None-of- Your-Damn-Business , Lewis . I 'll be with you in a minute .
LEWIS: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: Yeah , good morning . How do I get an outside line ? Really ? That 's simple . Thank you .
LEWIS: Janie ?
JANIE: Yes ?
LEWIS: What 's the President doing ?
JANIE: I 'm sorry , I 'm really not at liberty to say .
SHEPHERD: Tell me something . What is the state flower of Virginia ?
ROBIN: Does this have something to do with Sydney Wade ?
JANIE: I 'm really not at liberty to say .
SHEPHERD: Is there someone else there who might know ? No , I 'm not trying to five you a hard time , I washold on please .
JANIE: ( turning to MRS .
CHAPIL: Mrs. Chapil . State flower of Virginia .
MRS. CHAPIL: The dogwood .
SHEPHERD: Thank you . It 's the dogwood . What ? Hold on please . Janie , the dogwood is a tree , not a flower .
KODAK: It 's a tree and a flower .
JANIE: Are you sure ?
KODAK: Yes . What 's going on ?
SHEPHERD: The dogwood is both a tree and a flower . I 'd like a dozen , please . Really ? No dogwoods ? How 'bout oses ? Simple . Classic . Two dozen oses .
LEWIS: Janie , I 'm the President senio domestic policy advisor . It 's important that I have a full understanding of
JANIE: They 're in storage in Wisconsin with the rest of your personal items .
SHEPHERD: Ah . Listen , what might be better is if you just bill me for the flowers . I 'm sure it 'll be okay with you oss . Well , I do n't know if you ecognize my voice , but this is the President . The United States . Hello , hello
SYDNEY: Leo , you wanted to see me ?
LEO: So there I was , thinking maybe I should give Sydney a call . She 's new in town , does n't know many people
SYDNEY: Leo
LEO: Then I picked up the Times
SYDNEY: It was crazy . He called me at home .
LEO: What 's going on ?
SYDNEY: Nothing . It was innocent . His cousin got the flu at the last minute .
LEO: Did you sleep with him ?
SYDNEY: What ?
LEO: Did you sleep
SYDNEY: That 's none of your business , Leo .
LEO: Yeah , it is , Sydney .
SYDNEY: You wan na tell me how my personal life in any way
LEO: Because when it 's the President , it 's not personal . Sydney , I hired you eputation . I hired a pit bull , not a prom queen .
SYDNEY: That 's unfair .
LEO: It 's incredibly unfair . But you 've spent a lot of time over the yea telling me the trouble with the environmental lobby is that we do n't understand the fundamental truth that politics is perception . This is a ad time to develop ignorance .
SYDNEY: You 're making way too much of this .
LEO: Am I ? This is your time , Sydney . You 're sitting at the grown-ups ' table . You have a chance to get everything you want run a national campaign , be a major player inside the party . But this relationship had etter go all the way , because with the leader of the free world there is no halfway . Politics is perception , and if thing do n't work out , the amount of time it 'll take you to go from being a hired gun to a cocktail party joke can be clocked with an egg timer .
SYDNEY: Leo , there is no relationship . It was one night . It 's done .
LEO'S SECRETARY: Mr. Solomon , this was just delivered y White House messenger . It 's marked `` Perishable . ''
LEO: The White House has sent me something perishable ?
LEO'S SECRETARY: It 's for Ms. Wade .
LEO: Here we go SYDNEY begins unwrapping the package .
SYDNEY: Relax , Leo . I 'm sure it 's just a formality .
LEO'S SECRETARY: It 's from him .
LEO: Of course it 's from him .
SYDNEY: So he had some staff flunky send me a fruit basket .
LEO'S SECRETARY: He wrote the note himself .
SYDNEY: I 'm sure he did n't take the time to
LEO'S SECRETARY: The messenger said he was waiting in the Oval Office for ten minutes while the President wrote the card .
SYDNEY: Okay , listen , so he it took him ten minutes to write a card ? !
LEO'S SECRETARY: Apparently he went through several drafts .
LEO: What is itwhat is it ?
SYDNEY: A ham .
LEO: A ham ?
SYDNEY: He sent me a Virginia ham .
LEO'S SECRETARY: Dig it , Ms. Wade . You 're the President 's girlfriend . SYDNEY 's smile fades awayshe looks at LEO .
LEO: There 's never an egg timer around when you need one .
ROBIN: Sir , they 're gon na be pressing today about whether the White House is prepared to soften the assault weapons section of the crime bill .
LEWIS: There is no need to entertain that at this point .
ROBIN: How do you want me to handle the Sydney issue ?
SHEPHERD: The Sydney issue ?
LEWIS: We should have a consensus on how the White House is going to handle it .
SHEPHERD: I sure hope the Sydney issue refers in some way to a problem we 're having with Australia , because if it 's anything else JANIE pokes her head in .
JANIE: Mr. President , Ms. Wade is here to see you .
SHEPHERD: Tell her she can come right in . I 'm finished here .
JANIE: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: There is no Sydney issue .
SYDNEY: Thanks for seeing me on such short notice .
SHEPHERD: No problem . Did you get the ham ?
SYDNEY: I got the ham , yes . Thank you very much .
SHEPHERD: I wanted to send you flowers , but there seem to be some kinks in the system . I 'm really glad you stopped y. I had such a good time last night .
SYDNEY: So did I . It 's just that JANIE enters .
JANIE: They 're 45 seconds away , sir .
SHEPHERD: I 'm delivering a luncheon speech at the Governor 's Conference this morning . I 'm sorry to
SYDNEY: No , no , that 's fine . I just stopped y to
SHEPHERD: Are you free for dinner tomorrow night ?
SYDNEY: Dinner ?
SHEPHERD: Casual . In the Residence . Without the United Nations . My daughter 'll e with us , so it may seem like the United
SYDNEY: I 'd love to meet Lucy , but
SHEPHERD: She 's gon na like you . Excuse me Jeff !
SYDNEY: Actually , I have some concerns that The AIDE steps back in
JEFF: Yes , sir .
SHEPHERD: I ca n't do this .
JEFF: Which ? Robbins or Stackhouse ?
SHEPHERD: Either one . I have to be in and out .
JEFF: Sir , Governor Stackhouse said he just needed 10 minutes . I think he wants to talk about the assault weapons .
SHEPHERD: Stackhouse wants to talk about grazing rights . Trust me .
JEFF: Got it . And he 's gone .
SHEPHERD: Sorry . You have concerns .
SYDNEY: Yes . Not many . A few . One . I have one concern .
SHEPHERD: Does it having anything to do with one of us being the President ?
SYDNEY: You like to make jokes about this , ut
SHEPHERD: I am not mocking you , honest . I 'm just a guy asking a girl over for a meal .
SYDNEY: What 's that ?
SHEPHERD: My ride 's here .
SYDNEY: Leo Solomon has serious concerns about my exploring a social , you know , scenario , with the President of the United States .
SHEPHERD: Yeah , well , when you put it that way , it does n't sound that great to me either .
SYDNEY: It 's just not
SHEPHERD: Have dinner with Lucy and me . It 's meat loaf night how presidential can it be ? As SHEPHERD rushes out
LUCY: Are you Ms. Wade ?
SYDNEY: Sydney .
LUCY: Lucy Shepherd .
SYDNEY: Nice to meet you .
LUCY: My dad told me to tell you he 's on the phone with his dentist and that I should behave myself and entertain you till he gets here .
SYDNEY: Your father 's on the phone with his dentist ?
LUCY: No . He told me to tell you he 's on the phone with his dentist . He wants you to think he 's a regular guy .
SYDNEY: Who is he on the phone with ?
LUCY: The Prime Minister of Israel .
SYDNEY: They 're probably not discussing his teeth .
LUCY: No . They 're talking about that abbreviation I can never remember .
SYDNEY: C-STAD ?
LUCY: Yeah .
SYDNEY: Capricorn Surface To Air Defense .
LUCY: Right . SHEPHERD enters .
SHEPHERD: Let meat loaf night begin .
SYDNEY: Everything all right with your teeth ?
SHEPHERD: My teeth ?
SYDNEY: The dentist .
SHEPHERD: Oh , right . I 've got a cavity in my upper bicuspid region .
SYDNEY: You 've got a short-range weapons system outside Tel Aviv .
SHEPHERD: You turned on me .
LUCY: Can we eat ?
RUMSON: Voters are n't interested in how to achieve economic growth , and they do n't want to hear our plans to strengthen foreign policy .
STAFFER #1: So it comes down to character .
STAFFER #2: The press like him , Senator . The networks , the newspapers , they 're
RUMSON: Reporters like him . Networks and newspapers like ratings and circulation . For all the bitching we do about liberal ias in the press when it comes down to a character debate
STAFFER #3: The press is an unwitting accomplice .
CARL: Bob , the character debate did n't work out for us .
RUMSON: Because it could n't . Our polling told us that attacking his characte less than a year after he 'd lost his wife was gon na be a turn-off and was gon na make people feel sorry for him . We could n't run the campaign we wanted ecause the opponent was a widower .
CARL: He 's still a widower . Time 's passed , ut
RUMSON: You 'll have to forgive my friend . He 's been on a hunting trip and cut off from the world .
CARL: What 's going on ?
RUMSON: The President 's got a girlfriend .
SYDNEY: Your dad says you 're studying the Constitutional Convention .
SHEPHERD: She 's not having any fun , though .
LUCY: Dad
SYDNEY: You 're not having fun ?
LUCY: This is a nightmare . This is a social studies nightmare .
SHEPHERD: They 're doing a mock Congress . Each kid is playing one of the original delegates , and they debate the Amendments . Now what 's not fun about that ?
LUCY: G'night , Dad .
SHEPHERD: G'night , sweetheart .
LUCY: It was nice meeting you , Mrs .
SYDNEY: Sydney .
LUCY: It was nice meeting you , Sydney .
SYDNEY: Thank you . It was nice meeting you .
SHEPHERD: Sleep well , honey . I love you .
LUCY: I love you , too .
SYDNEY: She 's wonderful .
SHEPHERD: She 's her mother .
SYDNEY: She 's you . After a pause
SHEPHERD: Would you like the 25-cent tour ?
SYDNEY: I thought C-STAD was n't gon na be operational until January .
SHEPHERD: It was ready ahead of schedule . We 've just been waiting for the personnel .
SYDNEY: The Israelis ?
SHEPHERD: No , our guys . We 've sent a team of Army instructors to train the Israelis . SYDNEY and SHEPHERD enter the
SYDNEY: It 's not the dish
SHEPHERD: Yeah , it is . It 's the room with all the dishes .
SYDNEY: It 's the China Room .
SHEPHERD: I 'm more of a West Wing President . If you 're curious about the mansion , there 's probably a book you can get
SYDNEY: There 're about seven-thousand books . I 'll get one for you .
SHEPHERD: Sydney .
SYDNEY: Mr. President have you ever noticed how similar the Van Buren flatware is to the Buchanan flatware ?
SHEPHERD: Do you think there will ever come a time when you can stand in a room with me and not think of me as the President ?
SYDNEY: This is n't a state of mind . You are the President . And when I 'm in a oom with you , oval or any othe shape , I 'm always gon na be a lobbyist , and you 'll always be the President .
SHEPHERD: I got news for you , Sydney . As a lobbyist , you would never be alone in a room with the President . This last statement is not lost on SYDNEY .
SYDNEY: You think this is a good idea ?
SHEPHERD: Probably not .
AGENT #3: We have a secure call from the sit- oom . SHEPHERD knows what that means .
SHEPHERD: Excuse me . He moves out the door and into the corridor .
AGENT #3: Sorry , ma'am .
SYDNEY: Noof course . SHEPHERD comes back in .
SHEPHERD: Listen
SYDNEY: Is anything wrong ?
SHEPHERD: I 'm sorry , we 're going to have to cut our evening short . The Libyans have just bombed C-STAD . I 'll try to call you tomorrow . Can you show Ms. Wade out . SHEPHERD exits .
CHAIRMAN: The F-18 's are fired up on the Kimitz and the Kitty Hawk . They 're just waiting for your attack order , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: And we 're gon na hit Libyan Intelligence Headquarters ?
MAN: The N.S.A . confirmed they 're the ones who planned the bombing .
GENERAL: We 'll level the building .
SHEPHERD: Libyan I.H.Q 's in the middle of downtown Tripoli are we gon na hit anything else ?
GENERAL: Only if we miss .
SHEPHERD: Are we gon na miss ?
GENERAL: No , sir .
SHEPHERD: How many people work in that building ?
CHAIRMAN: We 've been all through
SHEPHERD: How many people work in the damn uilding ?
DEPUTY: I 've got those number here . There are three shifts , so it
SHEPHERD: The fewest . What shift puts the fewest people in the building ? The night shift , right ?
DEPUTY: By far . Mostly custodial staff and a few
SHEPHERD: What time does the night crew go on ?
DEPUTY: They 're on now , sir .
SHEPHERD: A.J . ?
CHAIRMAN: Mr. President ?
SHEPHERD: Attack .
LEWIS: General Rork says around O-Eight Hundred .
ROBIN: Sir , what do you think about a national address ?
SHEPHERD: The last thing I want to do is put the Lybians center stage .
KODAK: I think it 's a great idea , sir . You know Rumson 's gon na be talking about your lack of military service .
SHEPHERD: This is n't about Rumson . What I did tonight was not about political gain .
KODAK: But it can be , sir . What you did tonight was very presidential .
SHEPHERD: Leon , somewhere in Libyan right now there 's a janitor working the night shift at the Libyan Intelligence Headquarters . He 's going about his job 'cause he has no idea that in about an hour he 's gon na die in a massive explosion . He 's just going about his job 'cause he has no idea that an hour ago I gave an order to have him killed . You just saw me do the least presidential thing I do .
KODAK: yes , sir .
SALLY: Is there anything at all about the C-STAD weapons system that could have een mistaken by Libyan Intelligence as offensive rather than defensive ?
SHEPHERD: No . We did everything but show them the blueprints . The hardware was sitting in a airplane hangar for a month . They did n't hit it until the American personnel got there . Leslie .
LESLIE: Sir , there 's an unconfirmed report that you were with Sydney Wade when you learned of the attack . Can you comment ?
SHEPHERD: Yes , we 'd just finished dinner .
ROBIN: Last question .
MARK: Sir , would you care to comment on the status of your relationship ?
SHEPHERD: We do n't have a relationship . We just had dinner .
CAROL: Can you tell us if she spent the night at the White House or did
SHEPHERD: Folks , a lot of people got killed last night . Let 's try to keep ou eyes on the ball , okay ?
ROBIN: That was my fault , sir . We should have prepped you for that .
SHEPHERD: There 's nothing that needs prepping . A.J. , let 's meet with the leadership after we meet with the Security Council .
ROBIN: `` Newsweek '' is begging for ten minutes today . Any ten minutes you got .
SHEPHERD: Nobody gets ten minutes today .
RUMSON: Last night , the price of his liberal programs was raised to include the blood of 22 American soldiers .
SHEPHERD: I went to Stanford , you blowhole .
RUMSON: The fat that our Commander-in-Chief has not served one day in uniform SHEPHERD clicks off the TV and then stares at
BETH: Sydney ?
SYDNEY: Why did I have to kiss him ?
BETH: You kissed him ?
SYDNEY: Yeah .
BETH: You did n't ' tell me that .
SYDNEY: I kissed him .
BETH: Where ?
SYDNEY: On the mouth .
BETH: Where in the White House ? !
SYDNEY: In the dish room .
BETH: The dish room ?
SYDNEY: The China Room .
BETH: Then what happened ?
SYDNEY: He had to go and attack Libya .
BETH: It 's always something .
SYDNEY: I 've got ta nip this in the bud . This has catastrophe written all over it .
BETH: In what language ? ! Sydney , this man is the leader of the free world . He 's brilliant , he 's funny , he 's handsome , and he 's an above-average dancer . Is n't it possible ou standards are just a tad high ? The PHONE RINGS SYDNEY freezes . The PHONE RINGS again .
SYDNEY: It 's him .
BETH: Answer the phone .
SYDNEY: He 's gon na ask me to come ove there .
BETH: Answer the phone .
SYDNEY: I do n't want to go over there .
BETH: Answer the phone .
SHEPHERD: Thanks , Coop . SHEPHERD closes the door .
SYDNEY: Look , I know you 've had a tough day .
SHEPHERD: Not as tough as some . You want a drink ? Lem me take your coat . But SYDNEY does n't take her coat off .
SYDNEY: Mr. President , this is n't gon na work .
SHEPHERD: Sure it will . You button the top utton , and it does n't fall off the hanger .
SYDNEY: That 's not what I
SHEPHERD: I did n't think so . Listen
SYDNEY: I 've really enjoyed the time we 've spent together , but this has catastrophe written all over it . Please , Mr. President , do n't pursue me outside the political arena .
SHEPHERD: Well , I have no intention of pursuing you inside the political arena , so that leaves everything out , and that 's unacceptable to me .
SYDNEY: If I were on your staff , I would tell you that the absolute worst thing you can do coming into an election yea is to open yourself up to characte attacks , and the fastest way to do that is to prance around like the playboy of the Western world .
SHEPHERD: Let 's clear up a couple of things . Number 1 I seldom prance . Number 2 I have no intention of engaging in a character debate , and Number 3 You 're not on my staff .
SYDNEY: Yes , of course , but if you 'll follow the immutable
SHEPHERD: Why is that , by the way ?
SYDNEY: Why 's that ?
SHEPHERD: Why are n't you on my staff ?
SYDNEY: You ca n't afford me .
SHEPHERD: How much do you make ?
SYDNEY: More than you do , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: The name 's Andy . How much money do you make ?
SYDNEY: What the hell does it matter how much money I
SHEPHERD: You would raise your voice to the President ?
SYDNEY: I 'm only thinking about the health of your Presidency . You think this morning 's press conference was the end of it ? Bob Rumson 's got ta be drooling over this .
SHEPHERD: Are you attracted to me ?
SYDNEY: I beg your pardon ?
SHEPHERD: I asked if
SYDNEY: That 's not the issue
SHEPHERD: Well , I tell you what . Let 's make it the issue . Let 's try something new , 'cause I know that most couples , when they 're first getting together , are inclined to slam on the brakes ecause they 're concerned about Bo Rumson 's drool .
SYDNEY: You 're not most people .
SHEPHERD: You know what your problem is ?
SYDNEY: What 's my problem ?
SHEPHERD: Sex and nervousness .
SYDNEY: Sex and nervousness is my problem .
SHEPHERD: Yes . Last night when we were looking at the different place settings in the dish room , I ealized that those place settings were provided by the First Ladies . And I 'll bet none of those First Ladies were nervous about having sex with their President husbands . And you know why ?
SYDNEY: No , but I 'm sure you 'll explain it to me .
SHEPHERD: I will . Because they were n't presidents when they met them . Not the case here .
SYDNEY: Ahhhhhh .
SHEPHERD: You see what I 'm getting at ?
SYDNEY: Yes . May I use your bathroom for a moment ?
SHEPHERD: Sure . It 's right through there .
SYDNEY: I want to freshen up .
SHEPHERD: As you pass through , you 'll see a large closet on your left . And if you feel comfortable , hang up you coat , and when you come back I 'll have fixed up a drink , we 'll sit on the couch , and I will explain to you my plan .
SYDNEY: You have a plan ? Do n't make me wait . You 're on a roll .
SHEPHERD: Okay . You 're attracted to me , but the idea of physical intimacy is uncomfortable because you only know me as the President . It 's not always gon na be that way , and the reason I know that is because there was a moment last night when you were with me and not the President , and I know what a big step that was for you . So , Sydney , I 'm in no rush . Here 's my plan We 're gon na slow down . When you 're comfortable , that 's when it 'll happen .
SYDNEY: You explained it great . She moves closer to him .
SHEPHERD: Are you nervous ?
SYDNEY: No .
SHEPHERD: Good . My nervousness exists on several levels . Number 1 and this is in no particular order I have n't done this in a pretty long time . Number 2 Any expectations you might have , due to the fact that I 'm , you know
SYDNEY: The most powerful man in the world ?
SHEPHERD: Exactly , thank you . Just so you emember that 's a political distinction that comes with the office . I mean , if Eisenhower were here instead of me he 'd be dead by now . And number three
SYDNEY: Andy They 're both standing , facing each other
CROWD: Yes ! !
RUMSON: Does New Hampshire want the pride back ?
CROWD: Yeah ! ! ! ! ! ! !
RUMSON: My name is Bob Rumson . And I 'm unning for President . And as the CROWD loses its mind , we
SHEPHERD: Yeahput him through . Lewis , it is 5 00 a.m. You got ta get yourself a life , man . Yeahall right .
SYDNEY: Hi .
SHEPHERD: What are you doing ?
SYDNEY: I wanted to leave the building before the press corps got here .
SHEPHERD: I have those same thoughts every day of my life . Say , you know Lewis Rothschild , do n't you ? Well , he 's
SYDNEY: Sure . Boy , Lewis 'd go nuts if he knew I 'd spent the night . There 's a KNOCK on the door .
SHEPHERD: on his way up .
SYDNEY: What ?
SHEPHERD: Come on in , Lewis . LEWIS comes in
LEWIS: 'Morning , Mr. President . Hi , Sydney .
SYDNEY: Hi , Lewis . Well , Mr. President , thank you for taking the time to go over those fossil fuel numbers . I 'll just get my coat , and be on my way .
SHEPHERD: What 's the situation ?
LEWIS: They 're camped out at every exit .
SYDNEY: Who ? Who 's camped out ?
LEWIS: The press .
SYDNEY: The press is camped out ?
LEWIS: You shoulda taken a cab , Sydney .
SYDNEY: They know my car ? ! ROBIN enters .
ROBIN: Good morning , Mr. President . Hi , Sydney . I came over as soon as Lewis called .
SHEPHERD: Thank God .
ROBIN: I think the important thing is not to make it look like we 're panicking .
SHEPHERD: See , and I think the important thing is actually not to be panicking . A.J . KNOCKS on the open door and walks in .
LEWIS: How do we exit Sydney from the uilding and what do we say to the press at that point ?
ROBIN: We need a diversion .
SYDNEY: A diversion .
ROBIN: You understand that by diversion I 'm not saying we set the White House on fire .
SHEPHERD: No , please , let 's do .
LEWIS: Can I state very clearly that I ca n't be party to anything illegal .
SHEPHERD: Rest easy , Lewis . We 're not creating a diversion .
ROBIN: No diversion .
SHEPHERD: We 'll have somebody take you home .
LEWIS: Okay . Good . Now , the press statement .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , when you leave here , you 're gon na run into reporters and photographers . Your picture 's gon na e taken every day , and you 're gon na e asked questions every day . Answe them , do n't answer them it 's entirely up to you . The White House has no official position except to say `` no comment . ''
ROBIN: No comment ?
SHEPHERD: The White House does n't comment on the President 's personal life .
LEWIS: We ca n't just leave it at that , sir .
SHEPHERD: I tell you what , Lewis , we just did .
LEWIS: But , sir
SYDNEY: Thanks , A.J . A.J . leaves
SHEPHERD: I 'm sorry about all this . We 'll do it better next time .
SYDNEY: I 'm no expert , but I thought we did it pretty good this time .
SHEPHERD: No , I mean
SYDNEY: I know . I had a good time .
SHEPHERD: Me , too . I 'll call you . I 'll be in Panama , but I 'll call you .
SYDNEY: I 'd like that . SYDNEY gives him a good-bye kiss
SHEPHERD: All rightokaythis is good .
REPORTER #1: Sydney Ellen Wade , the political strategist who accompanied President Shepherd to last week 's state dinner , eportedly spent the night at the White House as a guest of
REPORTER #2: The President returned from Panama this evening after a three-day tou through Central America . His first order of business An intimate supper with Sydney Wade at a romantic Georgetown bistro .
REPORTER #3: Conservative and religious family organizations are starting to smell lood in the water as
RUMSON: I agree a hundred and ten percent , Mrs. Harper . That 's why I 'm up here in the dead of winter talkin ' about it with you folks .
STU: Call me Santa Claus , Senator .
RUMSON: Shit , Stu , my mother 's got an FBI file .
STU: I 've got art . RUMSON comes back . STU hands him the photo .
RUMSON: Oh mantell me the smoke is coming from what it looks like it 's coming from .
STU: Yes , sir it 's burning flag .
SYDNEY: I understand , CongressmanOf course you need to deliberate . I know the fact that there is n't any heavy industry in your district does n't make this decision any easier . But we met three weeks ago , and at the end of that meeting you said that you were leaning our way ut that you wanted to sleep on it . Since I have n't heard from you since then , the only conclusion I can each is that you have n't slept in 21 days .
DAVID: Ask him about his position on stateboard for Hawaii .
SYDNEY: Harry , think like a father for a second . Would n't you like you kids to be able to take a deep eath when they 're 30 ? Thank you . You 're doing the right thing . She hangs up .
DAVID: How 's this ?
SYDNEY: That 's better !
DAVID: Hey , Syd , I saw on your schedule you 're gon na meet with McSorley , McCluskey and Shane .
SYDNEY: Yeah , the Motown Three said they 'd give me 30 minutes next week .
DAVID: Sydney , these are people who epresent people who make cars fo a living .
SYDNEY: Yeah .
DAVID: Cars , you understand , run on gasoline .
SYDNEY: Hey , I know it 's a long shot , but if I can get one of them , it 'll be a huge payoff in visibility .
DAVID: Well , if we 're gon na try , we should do some prep work . You wan na orde in ?
SYDNEY: I ca n't work tonight . I 'm having dinner at the White House . We can start early tomorrow .
DAVID: Okay . I 'm having lunch at the Kremlin , so we 'll have to , you know , start real early
SYDNEY: Good night , David .
DAVID: in order for me to catch the morning plane to Moscow .
SHEPHERD: Douglas , does the N.R.A . have videotapes of you playing golf with Satan ? We 've already softened the assault weapons . We 're leaving the SKS , the mini 14 , and about 250 othe types on the street . I mean , how much pull can one lobby
JANIE: You 're incredibly late .
SHEPHERD: I studied under a Nobel-Prize-Winning economist . You know what he taught me ?
ROBIN: Sir
JANIE: He 's incredibly late .
SHEPHERD: Hop in . We 'll talk in the car .
LEWIS: We 've got a small problem .
ROBIN: It could 've been a small problem . It 's now at the very least a medium- sized
LEWIS: Robin sees it as a problem . I see it as a opportunity .
ROBIN: It could 've been an opportunity if we 'd caught it
LEWIS: We caught it .
ROBIN: At 5 45 . Five-forty-five does n't do me any good , Lewis . Five-forty-five , network news is in makeup .
LEWIS: You 've got 14 people working for you . Did any of them
SHEPHERD: Guys , do I have to be here for this meeting ?
LEWIS: I 'm sorry , sir . It 's the evening news . It was buried as the third story
ROBIN: It 's got a bullet .
LEWIS: Sydney was at a protest rally where they burned a flag .
SHEPHERD: Today ?
LEWIS: About 13 years ago .
ROBIN: Outside the Department of Commerce . Anti-apartheid .
SHEPHERD: Let me see if I 've got this The third story on the news tonight was that someone I did n't know 13 years ago , when I was n't President , participated in a demonstration where no laws were being broken in protest of something that so many people were against it does n't exist anymore ? Just out of curiosity , what was the fourth story ?
LEWIS: See , I think it 's important , when we deal with it , that we
SHEPHERD: Do n't deal with it .
LEWIS: Excuse me ?
SHEPHERD: They 're trying to get us to swing at a pitch in the dirt . No one eve wins these fights . It 'll go away .
LEWIS: I 'm not sure that 's the wisest
SHEPHERD: Awhell !
ROBIN: See , it 's already distracting you . Why do n't you let A.J . and Lewis
SHEPHERD: No , you reminded me , I 'm supposed to have dinner with Sydney tonight .
SYDNEY: It 's terrific , Beth . I love it .
BETH: I ca n't believe I 'm loaning you clothes . I thought you owned every piece of clothing there was .
SYDNEY: Work clothes . I always have dinne at the White House wearing a suit . I thought a dress would be nice .
BETH: Go ahead , try it on . I brought earrings , too . The PHONE RINGS . SYDNEY answers it
SYDNEY: Hello I 'm just trying on dresses . How do you feel about leather ?
SHEPHERD: I feel terrible , but I have to cancel our date tonight .
SYDNEY: Another woman ?
SHEPHERD: No , I 've got ta go to St. Louis and avert a massive airline strike .
SYDNEY: Boys , if I had a nickel for every time I heard that one .
SHEPHERD: Thanks for understanding . I 'll call you tonight SHEPHERD hangs up the phone .
LEWIS: I tell any girl I 'm going out with to assume that all plans are soft until she receives confirmation 30 minutes eforehand .
ROBIN: And they find this romantic ?
LEWIS: Well , I say it with a great deal of charm .
SHEPHERD: Look ! Look ! There it is ! Carmen 's House of Flowers ! We got ta stop .
LEWIS: What ?
SHEPHERD: I got ta get her flowers .
LEWIS: Here ? !
ROBIN: Now ? !
SHEPHERD: I broke our date . This is what men do .
ROBIN: It 's not what men do . I know no men who do that .
SHEPHERD: Coop , I 'm gon na hop out at that flower shop .
AGENT COOPER: You 're gon na hop out , sir ?
LEWIS: No , he 's not hopping . Sir , no hopping . Stay in the car . I 'll get the flowers .
SHEPHERD: Then it 's not personal .
LEWIS: Let the agents do a security sweep . We do n't know who 's in there .
SHEPHERD: You think there 's a florist who 's planning an assassination on the off-chance that I 'd be stopping by ?
LEWIS: It 's possible .
GIRL: At the basketball game
SHEPHERD: Excuse me
GIRL: No , at the game . I 'm telling you , Kiki was n't even there .
SHEPHERD: Excuse me
GIRL: I will be right with you .
SHEPHERD: Hey , I do n't know if you 're the one I talked to on the phone Virginia , dogwood , the President any of it ring a
AGENT COOPER: She 'll be fine .
RUMSON: Never mind she 's the hired gun of an ultra-liberal political action committee . The crowd 's getting into it
ROBIN: No reaction from the White House .
SYDNEY: What do Lewis and Robin think ?
SHEPHERD: Brutus and Cassius ? They want me to get into the character debate and mix it up .
SYDNEY: Lewis and Robin are very smart .
SHEPHERD: Sydney says you guys are really stupid .
SYDNEY: I did n't say that !
SHEPHERD: She 's questioning your loyalty .
LEWIS: Hell , I question it all the time .
SHEPHERD: Wait a second , here comes my favorite part . He 's referring to RUMSON on the TV .
SYDNEY: His number are climbing .
SHEPHERD: Sydney , his number have nowhere to go but up .
SYDNEY: What about yours ?
SHEPHERD: We 're fine . We 'll be back up in the 60 's once I get the votes for the crime bill . Say , what 're you doing this weekend ?
SYDNEY: I 've got some work I was gon na bring home . Why ?
SHEPHERD: The negotiations are going pretty well here . It looks like the nation 's going to keep on flying . Lucy 's sleeping over at a friend 's house Saturday night .
SYDNEY: What 'd you have in mind ?
SHEPHERD: Have you ever been to Camp David ?
SYDNEY: Camp David ? Sure . I used to go there all the time , but then they changed chefs and
SHEPHERD: It 's sass , right ? You 're sassing me .
SYDNEY: Yes .
SHEPHERD: I 'll have a car pick you up Saturday morning .
SYDNEY: Do you ever get used to helicopters dropping you off at your front door ?
SHEPHERD: How many `` e '' s in `` kaleidoscope '' ?
SYDNEY: I guess you do .
SHEPHERD: What ?
SYDNEY: I 'm looking at your college transcripts . This is n't human . Nobody gets this many `` A 's . '' You were like a Stepford student .
SHEPHERD: Are you still reading that ridiculous iography ?
SYDNEY: Actually I finished Andrew Shepherd Road to the White House . Now I 'm onto Shepherd The Early Years .
SHEPHERD: Seven-trillion-dollar communications system at my disposal , you 'd think I 'd be able to find out if the Packers won .
SYDNEY: Oh , AndyC-minus in Women 's Studies ?
SHEPHERD: Yeahthat course was n't about what I thought it was gon na be about . SHEPHERD has landed on a news station .
MICHAELS: Wait a minute , Senator
RUMSON: I 'm not saying
MICHAELS: 'cause that 's a heck of an accusation to make , and
RUMSON: I 'm not making an acc let me be very clear . I 'm not making an accusation . I am saying when we hear one thing , we dismiss it . We hear two , we dismiss it . But when several , several well- espected members and former members of the Virginia State House
MICHAELS: Can you give us names ?
RUMSON: each of their own accord , comes to me and expresses concern over the woman standing next to I do n't even know , do we call her the First Mistress ? When several
SYDNEY: My God . He 's making this up as he goes along .
SHEPHERD: I 'm so sorry about this , Sydney .
SYDNEY: Oh , man . My father heard that . SHEPHERD clicks off the T.V .
SHEPHERD: You got ta tell him to turn a deaf ear .
SYDNEY: My father does n't have a deaf ear . He hears fine out of both . So do I . So does my sister , so do my friends . You 're the only one who seems to
SHEPHERD: Sydney , I ca n't challenge the school ully to a fight just because he picked on my girlfriend .
SYDNEY: I 'm not asking you to . I can take care of myself . This is n't about me . How can you keep quiet ? How do you have patience for people who claim they love America but clearly ca n't stand Americans ?
SHEPHERD: I have one more election left , Sydney . I do n't have the luxury of losing my patience .
SYDNEY: I want to say something , but I 'm gon na fumble it a little bit , so I 'd just like you to wait till I 'm done efore you respond . I 'm in love with you . I 'm certain of it . And I want to e with you more than anything . But maybe things would be better for you if I disappeared for a while .
SHEPHERD: Things will be better when I pass a crime bill . And Sydney , if you disappeared , I 'd find you . He goes to kiss her , she responds .
KODAK: The country has mood swings .
LEWIS: Mood swings ? Nineteen post-graduate degrees in mathematics and you explain going from a 63 to a 46 percent approval rating in 5 weeks on mood swings ?
KODAK: Well , I could explain it better , but I 'd need charts and graphs and an easel .
ROBIN: Fellas , we have n't slept in three years . Ca n't we forget work for one night and take this moment to enjoy each other as friends ? It 's Christmas .
LEWIS: It 's Christmas ?
KODAK: Yeah , you did n't get the memo ?
KID #1: 'Cause your father 's President , does he automatically get to be on money ?
LUCY: I honestly do n't know .
KID #2: I think only if he 's a really good President .
SYDNEY: Merry Christmas , A.J .
SHEPHERD: Hi , Syd . Get stuck on DuPont Circle again ?
SYDNEY: It 's not funny . I hate that place . Ca n't you declare it a Federal Disaster Area or something ?
SHEPHERD: I 'll look into it .
SYDNEY: AhhhI had a terrible meeting today . Totally lost my cool with McSorley , McCluskey and Shane .
SHEPHERD: You went to see the Motown Three ?
SYDNEY: I pitched 'em the hill .
SHEPHERD: The woman knows no fear . She 'd lobby the Carolinas to the American Lung Association .
SYDNEY: It was a disaster .
SHEPHERD: I do n't think the Pep Boys know too many words .
SYDNEY: I 'm gon na get a drink and shake this off . When I come back , I 'll have Christmas spirit .
SHEPHERD: Okay .
SYDNEY: Is something wrong ?
SHEPHERD: No , I wasI was thinking about nothing .
SYDNEY: I 'll be back in a minute . She goes off .
SHEPHERD: No , the GDC 's political directo did n't tell us anything . Sydney Wade told her boyfriend and he oyfriend 's best friend that she had a lousy day .
LEWIS: I 'm hearing rumors that your boss is wavering on the crime bill .
AIDE: You ca n't believe rumors , Lewis , you know this town .
LEWIS: That 's what I wanted to hear .
AIDE: I 'll tell you , though . My boss is starting to waver on the crime bill .
SYDNEY: Congressman Pennybaker , on election day , people give a damn about what I tell them to give a damn about . And that 's why I have a job . Did you want another roll ?
DAVID: She got Pennybaker .
VOICE: All right ! Good job !
LEWIS: Congressman , it was our understanding that we had your support .
MILLMAN: Hey , look , I like your boy . Always have . But for God 's sake , kid , does the woman have to spend the night ?
SYDNEY: We 've got the full backing of the White House , Katherine . Yes , at 20 percent . Three more votes and the President sends it to the Hill . Katie , 10 years from now any cars with an internal combustion engine is gon na be considered a collector 's item . Come on board , we 'll make you Volvo a classic .
LEWIS: Congressman , the assault weapons are gone .
KODAK: The bill is priced to move , see .
CONGRESSMAN: The bill is n't the issue , fellas . I 'm facing a serious challenge in November , and the President 's coattails are n't what they used to be .
KODAK: The President 's coattail 's are gon na have room for you , Congressman , you leave that to us .
AIDE: We left that to you people , Leon , and the President 's in a free-fall .
KODAK: I would n't say he 's in a free
CONGRESSMAN: I just ca n't give you my vote .
LEWIS: The well is drying up . The President 's got ta make a move o we 're gon na die fast and quiet .
KODAK: What if I do a new poll ? We give him detailed public opinion .
LEWIS: And we put Sydney in the new model ? A.J . hesitates .
SHEPHERD: This was delicious . Thank you . Is there any left ?
SYDNEY: Tons . I did n't think you liked it .
SHEPHERD: Are you kidding me , of course I did . But actually it 's not for me . The agent who checked the food thought it was delicious , and I sort of told him I 'd bring him some if there was any left .
SYDNEY: So you did n't like it .
SHEPHERD: No , I loved it .
SYDNEY: You 're lying .
SHEPHERD: No , I 'm not .
SYDNEY: You are . I can tell when you 're holding something back . You do a thing with your face .
SHEPHERD: When have you seen me do a thing with my face ?
SYDNEY: Two days before I met you . You gave a speech for the Daughters of the American Revolution . I was there .
SHEPHERD: You were ?
SYDNEY: You remember the speech ?
SHEPHERD: Vaguely .
SYDNEY: `` American can no longer afford to pretend that they live in a great society . ''
SHEPHERD: Ah .
SYDNEY: There was supposed to be something else after that , was n't there ?
SHEPHERD: How did you know ?
SYDNEY: I told you . The face .
SHEPHERD: Wowwhat 's the occasion ?
SYDNEY: You 're looking at a lady who 's two votes shy of the promised land .
SHEPHERD: Two votes ?
SYDNEY: I got Pennybaker . That got me Cass and Zimmer .
SHEPHERD: That 's great , Sydney . I mean it . That 's great work .
SYDNEY: Well , I 'm not there yet .
SHEPHERD: Look , no matter what happens , you have every right to be proud of yourself .
SYDNEY: I 'll be proud when I see you sign the bill .
SHEPHERD: Yeah , well
SYDNEY: Andy .
SHEPHERD: Yeah ?
SYDNEY: You 're doing that thing with your face .
ROBIN: How 're the numbers ?
KODAK: Bad .
ROBIN: How bad ?
KODAK: Forty-one . Character across the oard .
ROBIN: Who is Lewis on with ?
KODAK: Jarrett . He 's trying to keep his finger in the dam .
LEWIS: You 're supposed to be a United States Congressman , for the love of Christ .
ROBIN: Lewis !
LEWIS: Vote your conscience , you chicken- shit , lame-ass
KODAK: I hope so . 'Cause , you know , if that was an `` undecided , '' then we need to work on our people skills .
LEWIS: Karen , it 's Lewis . Could you hunt down Congressman Quincy for me . I need to talk to him right way .
SHEPHERD: Did he give a reason ?
LEWIS: He thinks your numbers are n't likely to rebound .
KODAK: We 're three votes down again , sir . There 's a pause before
ROBIN: The press is expecting an announcement on the crime bill by the Sate of the Union .
KODAK: If you agree to stick 455 in a drawe until after the elections , they 'll give you the three votes .
ROBIN: And we declare victory , sir .
SHEPHERD: We said as a last resort .
KODAK: We 're there , sir . The State of the Union is 48 hours away .
SHEPHERD: No . Come on . There 's got ta be three votes someplace else .
KODAK: There is n't .
SHEPHERD: Bullshit , Leon . There 's got ta be somebody we have n't
KODAK: There is n't , sir .
SHEPHERD: Storch .
KODAK: I beg your pardon ?
SHEPHERD: What about Storch ?
KODAK: Storch is a `` no . ''
SHEPHERD: Wagner .
KODAK: No .
SHEPHERD: Sobel .
KODAK: No .
SHEPHERD: Clark .
KODAK: No .
SHEPHERD: Not that Clark , the one from Indiana .
KODAK: That one too , sir . SHEPHERD is stopped .
SHEPHERD: She is one vote away , A.J . It 's important legislation that for the first time has a legitimate chance . I think she deserves every possible opportunity to
LEWIS: She ? You meant `` it , '' did n't you , sir ? You meant the `` important legislation '' deserves every opportunity .
SHEPHERD: You got something to say to me ?
LEWIS: Respectfully , sir . I think we should examine the new poll for more than its value as a box score .
SHEPHERD: Examine what ? They do n't like that I 'm going out with Sydney .
LEWIS: It 's not that simple , sir . I think this poll helps bribg a murky problem into specific relief .
SHEPHERD: Whose problem we talking about , Lewis ? Yours ? You worried about your job ? This poll is n't talking about my Presidency . This poll is talking about my life . Two hundred and sixty-four million people have decided
LEWIS: Mr. President , two hundred and sixty- four million people do n't give a damn about your life . They give a damn about their own .
SHEPHERD: Look , if people want to listen to Bo Rumson
LEWIS: They do n't have a choice ! Ro Rumson 's the only one doing the talking . People want leadership . And in the absence of genuine leadership , they will listen to anyone who steps up to the microphone . They want leadership , Mr. President . They 're so thirsty for it , they 'll crawl through the desert toward a mirage , and when they discover there 's no water , they 'll drink the sand .
SHEPHERD: Lewis , we 've had Presidents who were eloved , who could n't find a coherent sentence with two hands and a flashlight . People do n't drink the sand , 'cause they 're thirsty , Lewis . They drink it 'cause they do n't know the difference .
SUSAN: I want to go on the record and apologize for my attitude toward you since your arrival .
SYDNEY: I did n't notice . Was there an attitude ?
SUSAN: I think I have a lot of pent-up hostility .
SYDNEY: Well
SUSAN: I wonder who I can blame it on .
SYDNEY: I 'm not really qualified to
SUSAN: 'Cause I 've been blaming it on my mother and my ex-husband , and that has n't been working .
DAVID: Leo needs to see you .
SYDNEY: Tell him to get over here . It 's a party .
DAVID: He needs to see you in his office .
SYDNEY: It ca n't wait ?
DAVID: He just got off the phone with MacInerney . There 's been a development .
SHEPHERD: Sounds good .
LUCY: It 's progressive .
SHEPHERD: I 'll say .
LUCY: Hey , Dad , what 's wrong with Sydney ? You guys have a fight ?
SHEPHERD: What do you mean ?
LUCY: She seemed pretty
SHEPHERD: You saw her ?
LUCY: She 's here .
SHEPHERD: Where ?
LUCY: In your room . Why is she mad ?
SHEPHERD: Do n't worry about it .
LUCY: Were you a dork ?
SHEPHERD: Practice your music .
LUCY: If you were a dork , you should say you 're sorry . Girls like that .
SHEPHERD: Syd ? SYDNEY comes out .
SYDNEY: Have you seen a gray cableknit sweater ?
SHEPHERD: A greysweater ? No . I called you at the office , but
SYDNEY: It 's Beth 's . I wore it here one time , and I did n't want to leave it .
SHEPHERD: Where were you going ? SYDNEY continues her search .
SYDNEY: I 'm going home , and then I 'm going to Hartford .
SHEPHERD: Connecticut ?
SYDNEY: Yes . Do you know if it was sent with your dry cleaning by any
SHEPHERD: What 's in Connecticut ?
SYDNEY: Richard Reynolds ' campaign . He may e able to get me a job .
SHEPHERD: When did you decide to get a new job ?
SYDNEY: Not long after Leo Solomon fired me from my old one . Beth 's gon na kill me . She loves that
SHEPHERD: Why did he fire you ?
SYDNEY: Total failure to achieve any of the objectives for which I was hired . I told him he was being unreasonable . After all , I did get to dance with the President and ride in Air Force One a couple of times . But you know those prickly environmentalists . It 's always gon na be something with them . If it 's not clean air , then it 's clean water . Like it is n't good enough that I 'm on the cover of People Magazine .
SHEPHERD: I 'll call him .
SYDNEY: You 'll call him ? You mean you 'll call him yourself ? Personally ? It 'll come from the President ? That 's a great idea . I think you should call Leo and make a deal . He hires me back for , say , 72 days . I go around scaring the hell out of Congress , making them think that the President 's about to drive through a very damaging and costly bill . They 'll believe me , right , 'cause I 'm the President 's Friday Night Girl . Now I do n't know if you can dip into this well twice , especially since I 've lost all credibility in politics , ut you never know , I might just be able to pull it off again . I might e able to give you just the leverage you need to pass some ground-breaking piece of crime legislation like a mandatory three-day waiting period efore a five-year-old can buy an Uzi . Fuck the sweater she 'll have to learn to live with disappointment . She starts to exit
SHEPHERD: What do you think went on here today ? She stops .
SYDNEY: I know exactly what went on here today . I got screwed . You saw the poll , you needed the crime bill , you could n't get it on your own , so I got screwed .
SYDNEY: Well then , congratulations . It 's only taken you three years to put together crime prevention legislation that has no hope of preventing crime . SYDNEY heads out the door
SHEPHERD: Sydney . Please . I do n't want to lose you over this .
SYDNEY: Mr. President , you got bigge problems than losing me . You just lost my vote . And SYDNEY is out the door
SHEPHERD: Richard Reynolds ' district office . She 's thinking of running his campaign . Four in the corner . SHEPHERD gets down over the ball
LUCY: This is oatmeal .
SHEPHERD: Yeah .
LUCY: We never have oatmeal .
SHEPHERD: It 's good for you .
LUCY: I 'm from Wisconsin . I need food .
SHEPHERD: You 're not from Wisconsin . I 'm from Wisconsin . You 've lived in Washington your whole life .
LUCY: We 're done .
SHEPHERD: You 're done ?
LUCY: We ratified it last week .
SHEPHERD: Ohwellthat 's good . Why did n't you tell me ?
LUCY: It 's not a big deal , Dad .
SHEPHERD: Okay , I give up . I do n't care why you 're not happy in social studies . I care about why you 're not talking to me about why you 're not happy in social studies .
LUCY: Dad , I 'm perfectly
SHEPHERD: You 're not perfectly happy . You do n't think I know when something 's othering you ?
LUCY: Damnit , Dad !
SHEPHERD: Hey !
LUCY: You know
SHEPHERD: Talk to me .
LUCY: Look
SHEPHERD: Almost every time I talk , I say things you disagree with .
LUCY: I mean politically .
SHEPHERD: Politically ?
LUCY: Yes .
SHEPHERD: What do you mean ? It just starts spilling out in a stream
LUCY: Yes . Okay . Yes . Sometimes , I mean , I 'm not sure . You know a lot more than I do but still , I have these feelings , and I do n't think they 're wrong . Like , okay , for instance , I 'm not so sure it 's all right to burn a flag . I mean , it really bothers a lot of people , and I do n't know why you think it 's okay . I hear Senato Rumson talk , and some of the things he says sounds right to me , and I think , `` God , am I like Bob Rumson ? ! I mean , Dad thinks he 's a jerk . Dad hates this guy ! Why am I agreeing with him '' And then I think , `` Well , maybe I 'm not really like Bob Rumson , but maybe I 'm not like Dad either . '' But the point is I 'm the President 's kid , and people pay attention to what I say , and if I say something different from what you say , it 'll be embarrassing fo you . So I ca n't just get up in social studies class and say whatever I want .
SHEPHERD: Stand up please . LUCY gets up slowly She 's never seen her father like this
LUCY: What 's that ?
SHEPHERD: The difference is that he says he loves America . Saying you love America is easy . What takes character and this is what you have
LUCY: Dad , is everything all right ?
SHEPHERD: Everything 's fine . I 'm just a little late for work .
REPORTER #4: Robin , will the President eve espond to Senator Rumson 's question about being a member of the American Civil Liberties Union ?
SHEPHERD: Yes , he will . 'Morning .
ROBIN: Good morning , Mr. President .
SHEPHERD: That 's all right , you can keep you seats . For the last couple of months , Senator Rumson has suggested that being president of this country was , to a certain extent , about character
ROBIN: Lewiscall A.J . and come on down hereI do n't know , but something 's happening .
SHEPHERD: and although I have not been willing to engage in his attacks on me , I 've been here three years and three days , and I can tell you without hesitation Being President of this country is entirely about character . LEWIS enters with A.J . and KODAK .
ROBIN: Any questions ?
LEWIS: He 's got the whole White House Press Corps asking each other how to spell `` erudite . ''
SHEPHERD: I do n't want the limo . I do n't want an escort . A.J . enters .
SYDNEY: Just stay away from DuPont Circle . I hear it 's murder this time of day .
SHEPHERD: I 'm glad .
SYDNEY: I did n't come back 'cause you decided to send 455 to the floor .
LEWIS: Mr. President , I thought you might want to look at this . I moved Social Security up front . Hello , Sydney . JANIE enters
JANIE: Mr. President , Leventhal at Treasury wants two minutes . Hello , Sydney . MRS. CHAPIL enters
MRS. CHAPIL: Mr. President Excuse me , Miss Wade Miss McCall is on her way over .
SHEPHERD: I 've got some things to do .
SYDNEY: Yes , you do .
SHEPHERD: I 'm having a cuff links crisis . LUCY takes his sleeves .
LUCY: Hold still . ROBIN steps in .
ROBIN: Mr. President , they 're waiting fo you .
LUCY: All done .
SHEPHERD: Lewis .
LEWIS: Sir .
SHEPHERD: Things have been a little rough etween us lately .
LEWIS: I know sir , I 'm sorry .
SHEPHERD: Do n't stop what you 're doing .
LEWIS: That 's kind of you , sir , but I ealize I 've been a little insensitive about some personal
SHEPHERD: No , you were right . Two hundred and sixty-four million people do n't give a damn about my life .
LEWIS: Just so you know I 've never been one of them , Mr. President .
ROBIN: This way , people . Let 's go .
SHEPHERD: See you after .
LUCY: Article 2 , Section 3 , of the U.S. Constitution . Executive Powers . `` He shall , from time to time , give to the Congress information of the State of the Union , and recommend to thei consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient . ''
SHEPHERD: Thank you . I 'll see you afterward . I want a critique .
SYDNEY: They 're beautiful . JANIE pokes her head in .
JANIE: Mr. President ?
SHEPHERD: Got ta go .
SYDNEY: Should I stay here ?
SHEPHERD: No , walk with me .
SYDNEY: How 'd you finally do it ?
SHEPHERD: Do what ?
SYDNEY: Manage to give a woman flowers and e President at the same time .
SHEPHERD: Wellit turns out I 've got a rose garden . SYDNEY is stopped in her tracks as the doors to the Chamber fly open
DOORKEEPER: Mr . Speaker ! ! ! THE PRESIDENT OF THE
VAN PATTEN: What are the rules for a sweater vest ? McDERMOTT What do you mean ?
PRICE: Yes . Clarify . McDERMOTT Well , is it strictly informal-
BATEMAN: Or can it be worn with a suit ? McDERMOTT Exactly
VAN PATTEN: You think so ?
VAN PATTEN: Good point . Excuse me , gentlemen .
PRICE: It looks that way , does n't it ? McDERMOTT Did he just take our plates away ?
PRICE: Some weasel from Kicker Peabody . Van Patten returns .
PRICE: Yes . McDufus , I am . McDERMOTT He 's handling the Fisher account .
VAN PATTEN: Not bad .
PRICE: You take Amex , dude ?
BATEMAN: Maybe it 's just the light .
BATEMAN: What ?
PRICE: It 's a fucking milligram of Sweet ' n Low !
BATEMAN: Calm down . Let 's do it anyway
PRICE: I guess you 're right
BATEMAN: That 's the spirit .
MAN: Morning , Hamilton . Nice tan .
JEAN: Late ?
BATEMAN: Aerobics class . Sorry . Any messages ?
BATEMAN: When ?
JEAN: After six .
BATEMAN: Negative . Cancel it . Jean follows him into his office .
JEAN: Oh ? And what should I say ?
BATEMAN: Justsayno .
JEAN: Just say no ?
JEAN: Yes , sir . She turns to leave .
JEAN: Oh , something . . romantic ?
BATEMAN: No , silly . Forget it . I 'll make them . Thanks .
JEAN: I 'll do it .
JEAN: You look nice today .
JEAN: Ummmwhat ? I did n't hear you .
JEAN: You do n't like this , I take it ?
BATEMAN: Come on , you 're prettier than that .
JEAN: Thanks , Patrick . The phone RINGS and Jean turns to leave .
BATEMAN: Dowhat .
EVELYN: Get married . Have a wedding .
BATEMAN: Evelyn ?
EVELYN: Yes , darling ?
BATEMAN: Is your Evian spiked ?
EVELYN: We should do it .
BATEMAN: No-I ca n't take the time off work .
BATEMAN: I do n't want to talk about it .
BATEMAN: Because Iwanttofitin . The taxi bumps to a halt .
PRICE: The menu 's in braille .
EVELYN: Pat , this is my cousin Vanden and her boyfriend Stash . He 's an artist .
STASH: SoHo .
COURTNEY: Stop it ! Stash and Vanden watch them in silence .
CARRUTHERS: Yes , I read that .
PRICE: Oh , who gives a rat 's ass ?
VANDEN: Hey . That affects us .
PRICE: Oh ho ho . That affects us ? What
PRICE: Like what ?
CARRUTHERS: Patrick , how thought-provoking .
BATEMAN: Why don t you just go for Price ?
EVELYN: Oh God , Patrick . Why Price ? Price ?
BATEMAN: He 's rich .
EVELYN: Everybody 's rich .
BATEMAN: He 's good-looking .
EVELYN: Everybody 's good-looking , Patrick .
BATEMAN: He has a great body
EVELYN: Everybody has a great body now .
BATEMAN: No . I 'm not . Why should I ?
EVELYN: Your hairline looks like it 's receding .
BATEMAN: It 's not .
VICTORIA: Patrick ? She takes off her sunglasses .
BATEMAN: Hello Awkward pause .
VICTORIA: Oh my , I see . What are those ? Oh my .
BATEMAN: Um , wellit s cranberry juice . Cranapple . VICTORiA Really ?
BATEMAN: Listen , if you could talk to them
VICTORIA: Hubert 's ? Oh really ? It moved uptown , right ?
BATEMAN: Next Saturday ?
VICTORIA: Yeah .
VICTORIA: Okay . Do .
BATEMAN: Listen , what are you doing tonight ?
COURTNEY: What ? Oh , I'mbusy .
COURTNEY: Stop it . I 'm
BATEMAN: On a lot of lithium ?
BATEMAN: You should come have dinner with me .
COURTNEY: But-when ?
COURTNEY: Ummm . . yeah . Luis is calling me tonight . I need to be home for that .
BATEMAN: Pumpkin ?
COURTNEY: Yes ?
BATEMAN: Pumpkin you 're dating an asshole .
COURTNEY: Uh huh .
COURTNEY: I know . Stop it .
BATEMAN: Pumpkin , you 're dating a tumbling , tumbling dickweed .
BATEMAN: Courtney ? Dinner ?
COURTNEY: I ca n't .
BATEMAN: I 'm thinking Dorsia .
COURTNEY: Dorsia 's nice .
BATEMAN: Nice ?
COURTNEY: You like it there , do n't you ?
COURTNEY: Okay . Yeah . What time ?
BATEMAN: Eight ?
COURTNEY: Pick me up ?
MAITRE D': Dorsia . Please hold .
COURTNEY: A facial at Elizabeth Arden , which was really
BATEMAN: Is that Donald Trump 's car ?
COURTNEY: Oh God , Patrick . Shut up .
BATEMAN: You know , Courtney , you should take some more
COURTNEY: I just want to have a child . Justtwo perfectchildren
BATEMAN: J & B . Straight .
BATEMAN: Yes .
COURTNEY: This is Dorsia ?
COURTNEY: Mmmmthanks , Patrick . She falls asleep at the table .
BATEMAN: Yes , Luis is a despicable twit . I hate him . He keeps fucking her .
BATEMAN: Is it a what ?
COURTNEY: Pull out .
BATEMAN: I 'm ignoring you .
COURTNEY: Pull out , goddamnit !
BATEMAN: What do you want , Courtney ? She pushes him away from her .
COURTNEY: Turn the light on . She tries to sit up .
BATEMAN: Oh Jesus . I 'm going home .
COURTNEY: Patrick . Turn on the Light . He turns on the light .
BATEMAN: It 's a plain end , see ? So ?
COURTNEY: Take it off .
BATEMAN: Why ?
COURTNEY: Well , it 's not a turn-on for me .
COURTNEY: Oh God , just get it over with .
BATEMAN: Lucky , I guess .
CARRUTHERS: That 's a wonderful jacket . Let me guess , Valentino Couture ?
BATEMAN: Uh huh .
CARRUTHERS: It looks so soft .
BATEMAN: Your compliment was sufficient Luis .
BATEMAN: I 've been great . And you ?
OWEN: How 's the Ransom account going , Marcus ?
BATEMAN: It'sit'sall right .
OWEN: Really ? That 's interesting . Not great ?
BATEMAN: Oh well , you know .
OWEN: And how 's Cecilia ? She 's a great girl .
BATEMAN: Oh yes . I 'm very lucky . McDermott and Price enter . McDERMOTT
OWEN: Thank you , Baxter .
PRICE: Listen , Paul . Squash ?
OWEN: Call me .
PRICE: How about Friday ?
BATEMAN: New card . What do you think ?
VAN PATTEN: Good coloring .
VAN PATTEN: It is very cool , Bateman . But that 's nothing .
PRICE: That 's really nice .
VAN PATTEN: Eggshell with Romalian type . What do you think ?
BATEMAN: Nice .
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm so hungry .
BATEMAN: It 's cold out , too , is n't it ?
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm so hungry .
HOMELESS MAN: I lost my job
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm so hungry . The dog starts to whimper .
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm not
BATEMAN: You 're not what ? Qualified for anything else ?
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm hungry
HOMELESS MAN: I 'm hungry .
HOMELESS MAN: What am I gon na do ?
BATEMAN: Listen , what 's your name ?
HOMELESS MAN: Al .
BATEMAN: Speak up . Come on .
HOMELESS MAN: Al .
BATEMAN: Shhhhit 's okay .
HOMELESS MAN: PleaseI don know what to do . I 'm so cold .
HOMELESS MAN: I can'tI ca n't find a shelte
FACIALIST: What beautiful skin you have , Mr Bateman . So fine , so smooth
BATEMAN: Marcus Halberstam . For two at eight ?
BATEMAN: J & B , straight . And a Dixie beer .
WAITER: Would you like to hear-
OWEN: Double Absolut martini .
BATEMAN: Not if you want to keep your spleen . The Waiter leaves .
OWEN: Yeah , well , you 're late .
BATEMAN: Hey , I 'm a child of divorce . Give me a break
BATEMAN: Nobody goes there anymore . There is a long disgruntled silence .
BATEMAN: Cecelia is , wellyou know ( Cecelia . I think she 's having dinner withEvelyn Williams .
BATEMAN: Another Martini , Paul ? Owen nods drunkenly .
OWEN: No , man . I 'm gon na bail .
BATEMAN: Come on , you dumb son of a bitch .
OWEN: They 're okay .
OWEN: Hey , Halberstam ?
BATEMAN: Yes , Owen ?
BATEMAN: No , Owen .
OWEN: Is that a raincoat ?
BATEMAN: Yes , it is .
CARRUTHERS: Patrick ? Is that you ?
BATEMAN: No , Luis . It 's not me . You 're mistaken .
BATEMAN: Commes des Garcon .
CARRUTHERS: Call me please , Patrick .
BATEMAN: Jesus lives , Luis .
JEAN: Patrick ?
BATEMAN: Ye-es , Je-an ?
BATEMAN: Who ?
JEAN: Detective Donald KIMBALL ?
BATEMAN: Tell him I 'm at lunch .
JEAN: Patrick , I think he knows you 're here . It 's only ten-thirty . Silence .
BATEMAN: Oh that ? Just mulling over business problems .
KIMBALL: Hi . I 'm Donald KIMBALL
BATEMAN: Hi . Pat Bateman . Nice to meet you .
BATEMAN: You 're not with the FBI or anything , are you ?
BATEMAN: Ah , I seeYes . Paul 's disappearanceYes .
BATEMAN: Coffee ?
KIMBALL: No . I 'm okay .
BATEMAN: Perrier ? San Pellegrino ?
KIMBALL: No , I 'm okay .
BATEMAN: Can you bring Mr
KIMBALL: KIMBALL .
BATEMAN: Mr. Kimball a bottle of San Pelle-
KIMBALL: Oh no , I 'm okay .
BATEMAN: It 's no problem
KIMBALL: The disappearance of Paul Owen .
KIMBALL: I think his family wants this kept quiet .
BATEMAN: Understandable .
KIMBALL: No , really . I 'm okay .
BATEMAN: You sure ? I can always get you a lime . A pause .
BATEMAN: Shoot .
KIMBALL: How old are you ?
BATEMAN: Twenty-six . I 'll be twenty-seven in October .
KIMBALL: Where did you go to school ?
BATEMAN: Harvard . The Harvard Business School .
KIMBALL: Your address ?
KIMBALL: Nice . Very nice .
BATEMAN: Thanks .
KIMBALL: Pardon me , but are you okay ?
BATEMAN: Who do you ask ?
KIMBALL: You seemnervous .
BATEMAN: Nuprin ? KIMBALL Uhno , thanks .
KIMBALL: I know . I 'm sorry . A pause , as Bateman stares at the cigarettes .
BATEMAN: No , I guess it 's okay .
KIMBALL: You sure ?
BATEMAN: No problem .
KIMBALL: What can you tell me about Paul Owen ?
BATEMAN: Well
KIMBALL: How well did you know him ?
KIMBALL: Yale thing ? A pause .
BATEMAN: YeahYale thing .
KIMBALL: What do you meanYale thing ? A pause .
KIMBALL: What kind of man was he ? Besides the information you 've just given .
BATEMAN: I hope I 'm not being cross-examined here .
KIMBALL: Do you feel that way ?
BATEMAN: No . Not really .
KIMBALL: Where did Paul hang out ?
BATEMAN: Hangout ?
KIMBALL: Yeah . You knowhang out .
KIMBALL: He had a yacht ?
BATEMAN: No , he just hung out there .
KIMBALL: And where did he go to school ? A slight pause .
BATEMAN: Do n't you know this ?
KIMBALL: I just wanted to know if you know .
KIMBALL: I understand . He makes another note .
BATEMAN: We were both seven in 1969 .
KIMBALL: So was I .
BATEMAN: Do you have any witnesses or fingerprints ?
BATEMAN: Well , maybe he did , huh ?
KIMBALL: His girlfriend does n't think so .
BATEMAN: Buthas anyone seen him in London ?
KIMBALL: Actually , yes .
BATEMAN: Hmmm .
BATEMAN: Oh .
BATEMAN: What ?
BATEMAN: Have you consulted a psychic ?
KIMBALL: No .
BATEMAN: Had his apartment been burglarized ?
BATEMAN: That 's so typical , is n't it ?
KIMBALL: It 's just strange .
BATEMAN: Nothing .
KIMBALL: People justdisappear .
BATEMAN: The earth just opens up and swallows people .
KIMBALL: Eerie . Really eerie . Silence .
KIMBALL: Is n't the Four Seasons a little far uptown ? I mean are n't you going to be late ?
BATEMAN: Uh , no . There 's onedown here .
KIMBALL: Oh really ? I did n't know that . Bateman leads him to the door .
BATEMAN: Yes . It 's very good . KIMBALL turns to face him .
BATEMAN: Absolutely , I 'm 100 % with you .
BATEMAN: You like that , slut ? The person on the other end clearly hangs up . CLOSE-UP on his fingers dialing the phone .
CHRISTIE: You just have n't been looking .
BATEMAN: Would you like to see my apartment ?
CHRISTIE: I 'm not supposed to .
BATEMAN: Do you want to come to my apartment or not ?
CHRISTIE: I 'm not supposed to . But I can make an exception .
BATEMAN: Do you take American Express ? Christie is still looking out behind her .
CHRISTIE: No .
SABRINA: No , not really .
CHRISTIE: You have a really nice place herePaul . How much did you pay for it ?
BATEMAN: I know her . I knew her . McDERMOTT
VAN PATTEN: Because he dated her .
BATEMAN: How did you guess ?
VAN PATTEN: Girls dig Bateman . He 's CQ . You 're total CQ , Bateman .
BATEMAN: Thanks , guy , butshe 's got a lousy personality . McDERMOTT So what ? It 's all looks . Laurie Kennedy is a
VAN PATTEN: A good personality consists of a chick with a
BATEMAN: Do you know what Ed Gein said about women ?
VAN PATTEN: Ed Gein ? Maitre d ' at Canal Bar ?
VAN PATTEN: Listen , what about dinner ?
CARRUTHERS: God , Patrick . Why here ? He strokes Bateman 's hair .
BATEMAN: Whatisit ?
CARRUTHERS: Where are you going ?
BATEMAN: I 've gottaI 've gottareturn some videotapes .
CARRUTHERS: Patrick ?
BATEMAN: What ?
CARRUTHERS: I 'll call you . Bateman storms out of the restaurant .
COURTNEY: Will you call me before Thanksgiving ?
BATEMAN: Maybe .
COURTNEY: What are you doing tonight ?
COURTNEY: That 's nice .
BATEMAN: You andLuis ?
COURTNEY: We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura 's , but-you know how Luis is
BATEMAN: I never knew you smoked .
COURTNEY: You never noticed .
COURTNEY: Is n't that special ? Patrick ?
BATEMAN: Yes , Courtney ?
BATEMAN: You too .
COURTNEY: Patrick ?
BATEMAN: Yes ?
COURTNEY: Nothing .
KIMBALL: Mr. Bateman ? Bateman gasps and recovers .
BATEMAN: Detective Kendalluh Campbell ?
KIMBALL: Kimball . Call me Don .
BATEMAN: Don .
KIMBALL: Soyou hang out here a lot ?
BATEMAN: Uh , yesI meanwhenever necessary . You know . Pause .
BATEMAN: Yeah . No Finlandia , as usual . Fucking dump .
LIBBY: Where did Craig go ?
PRICE: You 're not confused , are you ?
LIBBY: No , not really .
CARON: Gorbachev 's not downstairs .
DAISY: Are you Iying ?
BATEMAN: Ask me a question .
DAISY: So , what do you do ?
BATEMAN: What do you think I do ?
DAISY: A model ? An actor ?
BATEMAN: No . Flattering , but no .
DAISY: Well
BATEMAN: So , where do you work out ?
PRICE: I 'm leaving . I 'm getting out .
BATEMAN: Leaving what ?
PRICE: This .
BATEMAN: Do n't , I 'll drink it .
PRICE: Listen to me , Patrick . I 'm leaving .
BATEMAN: Where to ? Are you going to go get a gram ?
PRICE: I 'm leaving ! Iamleaving !
BATEMAN: Do n't tell memerchant banking ?
PRICE: No , you dumb son of a bitch . I 'm serious . I 'm disappearing .
BATEMAN: Where to ? Morgan Stanley ? Rehab ? What ? Price looks away . McDermott and Daisy walk up to them . McDERMOTT Hey-do n't worry , be happy .
PRICE: Goodbye ! Fuckheads ! He climbs over the railing . DAISY What is he doing ?
BATEMAN: Price ! Come back !
BATEMAN: Oh really ?
DAISY: He said He said you gave him bad vibes .
BATEMAN: That'sthat 's too bad .
DAISY: You think I 'm dumb , do n't you ?
BATEMAN: What ?
BATEMAN: No . I really do n't .
JEAN: Doin ' the crossword ? Bateman nods without looking up .
BATEMAN: Jean ?
JEAN: Yes , Patrick ?
BATEMAN: Would you like to accompany me to dinner ?
JEAN: Oh no . I have no plans .
BATEMAN: Well , is n't this a coincidence . A pause .
JEAN: Anywhere you want ?
BATEMAN: Let 's not think about what I want . How about anywhere you want .
JEAN: Oh Patrick , I ca n't make this decision .
BATEMAN: No , come on . Anywhere you want .
JEAN: Oh , I ca n't . I do n't know .
JEAN: What aboutDorsia ?
BATEMAN: SooooDorsia is where Jean wants to go
BATEMAN: Dorsia isfine . He dials the number .
MAITRE D': Dorsia , yes ?
MAITRE D': We are totally booked .
BATEMAN: Oh really ? That 's great .
MAITRE D': I said we are totally booked .
BATEMAN: Two at nine ? Perfect .
BATEMAN: See you then .
JEAN: You did n't give them a name .
BATEMAN: They know me . Pause .
BATEMAN: Jean ? Sorbet ?
JEAN: Thanks , Patrick . I 'd love some .
BATEMAN: I 'm on a diet . But thank you .
BATEMAN: Do you have a boyfriend ?
JEAN: No , not really .
BATEMAN: Interesting .
JEAN: Are you seeing anyone ? I mean , seriously ?
BATEMAN: Maybe . I do n't know Not really .
BATEMAN: Growing . I 'm glad you said that . Bateman picks up the duct tape .
JEAN: Who 's Ted Bundy ?
BATEMAN: Forget it .
JEAN: What 's that ?
BATEMAN: Oh . Uh , tape . Duct tape . Ineed it for
BATEMAN: WhatNo ! Put it in the carton .
JEAN: Sorry .
BATEMAN: Jean ? What ?
JEAN: Make someone happy-have you ever wanted to ?
JEAN: Hmmmm .
JEAN: Was thatEvelyn ? Silence .
BATEMAN: Yes . I don t think I cancontrol myself .
BATEMAN: Thanks . It slipped my mind completely . He sinks back on the sofa and shuts his eyes .
BATEMAN: Yeah , gone into rehab . Shame . Is he a suspect ?
KIMBALL: Not really . A pause .
BATEMAN: GodI guessI was probably returning videotapes .
KIMBALL: Wait . That 's not what I 've got .
BATEMAN: What ?
KIMBALL: That 's not the information I 've received .
BATEMAN: WellIWaitWhat information have you received ?
KIMBALL: Let 's see That you were with-
BATEMAN: Well , I could he wrong .
KIMBALL: Well , thank you , Mr. Bateman .
BATEMAN: Great , yes , I 'd like that .
BATEMAN: Absolutely . I 'm with you on that one .
BATEMAN: Never . I meanI do n't really like singers .
KIMBALL: Not a big music fan , eh ?
BATEMAN: No , I like music . Just-they're-Huey 's too lack sounding . For me .
BATEMAN: I 'll be there .
CHRISTIE: I do n't think so . He hands her a $ 500 bill .
CHRISTIE: Alright .
BATEMAN: Really ?
CHRISTIE: My friend told me I should maybe even get a lawyer .
CHRISTIE: This is nicer than your other apartment .
BATEMAN: It 's not that nice . Silence .
CHRISTIE: Where did you two meet ?
BATEMAN: What do you mean , she was a hot number .
BATEMAN: She 's mycousin .
ELIZABETH: Uh huh ?
BATEMAN: She 's fromFrance .
ELIZABETH: Where 's your phone ? I 've got to call Harley .
CHRISTIE: No .
ELIZABETH: Oh God , it 's his machine .
BATEMAN: Elizabeth , it 's three in the morning .
BATEMAN: Do n't tell him you 're here .
ELIZABETH: Why would I ?
BATEMAN: You 're at Paul Owen s .
ELIZABETH: Who ?
BATEMAN: Paul Owen .
ELIZABETH: I want the number , idiot .
BATEMAN: No .
ELIZABETH: Patrick , you re a lunatic .
BATEMAN: Come on . Do n't you find Christie attractive ?
ELIZABETH: Let 's not get lewd . I 'm in no mood to have a lewd conversation .
BATEMAN: Come on . I think it would be a turn-on .
ELIZABETH: Does he do this all the time ? Christie shrugs .
BATEMAN: Christie , you 're not drinking your wine .
BATEMAN: Did you know that Whitney Houston 's debut LP
ELIZABETH: You actually listen to Whitney Houston ? You
BATEMAN: It 's hard to choose a favorite track
EVELYN: I want a firm commitment .
BATEMAN: I think , Evelyn , that we'velost touch . Evelyn waves to a couple across the room .
EVELYN: Why ? What 's wrong ?
BATEMAN: It 's over , Evelyn . It 's all ove
EVELYN: You 're really serious , are n't you ?
BATEMAN: Yes , I am .
EVELYN: But what about the past ? Our past ?
BATEMAN: We never really shared one .
EVELYN: You 're inhuman .
EVELYN: No , no , no .
BATEMAN: I know my behavior iserratic sometimes .
EVELYN: Oh God , I ca n't believe this .
EVELYN: Where are you going ?
BATEMAN: I 'm just leaving .
EVELYN: But where ?
BATEMAN: I have to return some videotapes . He rushes out of the room .
WOMAN: Oh my God ! Stop that ! What are you doing ?
COP CAR: Halt . Put down your weapon .
NIGHT WATCHMAN: Burning the midnight oil , Mr. Smith ? You forgot to sign in .
KIMBALL: No hash browns ?
BATEMAN: Not in the mood , I guess .
KIMBALL: Buteveryone orders the hash browns here . I mean- it's-have you been here before ?
KIMBALL: Suit yourself , I guess . Pause .
KIMBALL: I think maybe you 've got your dates mixed up .
BATEMAN: But how ? Where do you place Paul that night ?
BATEMAN: And ?
KIMBALL: I 've questioned him .
BATEMAN: Marcus ?
BATEMAN: But Marcus denied it ?
KIMBALL: Yes .
BATEMAN: Well , does Marcus have an alibi ?
KIMBALL: Yes . A pause .
BATEMAN: He does ? You 're sure ?
KIMBALL: I checked it out . It 's clean .
BATEMAN: Oh . KIMBALL Now where were you ?
KIMBALL: He was n't with Paul Owen .
BATEMAN: So who was he with ?
DOORMAN: What can I do for you , sir ?
BATEMAN: 20B .
DOORMAN: Of course . Mrs. Wolfe is up there right now .
BATEMAN: Mrs. Wolfe ?
MRS. WOLFE: Are you my two o'clock ?
BATEMAN: No .
MRS. WOLFE: Can I help you ?
BATEMAN: I 'm looking forPaul Owen'splace . She stares at him impassively .
MRS. WOLFE: No , he does n't .
BATEMAN: Are you sure ?
MRS. WOLFE: You saw the ad in the Times ?
MRS. WOLFE: There was no ad in the Times .
BATEMAN: But I thinkI want to know what happened here .
BATEMAN: I won'tdo n't worry .
GUY: Hey , Kinsley . Bateman looks up at him wild-eyed .
BATEMAN: Jean ? Hello ? Jean ?
BATEMAN: Excuse me , gentlemen . Right back . He approaches Carnes cautiously .
BATEMAN: Shut up , Carnes , they will not .
BATEMAN: Yes , naturally .
BATEMAN: What exactly do you mean ?
CARNES: The message you left . Carnes is distracted , waving at people .
BATEMAN: But wait , Harold , what do you mean ? Carnes is n't really listening .
BATEMAN: Carnes ? Wait .
BATEMAN: What are you talking about ? Bateman is what ?
CARNES: Excuse me . I really must he going .
CARNES: It 's just not .
BATEMAN: Why not , you stupid bastard ? Carnes stares at him .
CARNES: Because I had dinner with Paul Owen twice in Londonjust ten days ago .
BATEMAN: No , youdid n't ?
CARNES: Now , if you 'll excuse me .
VAN PATTEN: Some guys are just born cool , I guess .
VAN PATTEN: Rehab 's done wonders for you , pal . Working for UNICEF now ? McDERMOTT
BATEMAN: Whatever .
YOUNG ADULT: I guess not
KWAN: Tiger grasps his tail , not hamburger !
DREW: Look , Bob , I 'm not bothering you , am I ?
DREW: I 'm not your son , Bob . Lay off .
KWAN: I wish I had the chance Kwan exits , and we
CHAUNCY: Very good , sir .
TREVOR: The finals .
COMPETITOR: Cocky bastard
DREW AGAIN: Winning . The stage is set for the finals .
KWAN: You only lose if you give up .
DREW: No next time , Master . Maybe
DREW: Why are you telling me this ?
DREW: Never were ?
KWAN: No .
DREW: Master
ASHEMA: Why do you want to find the temple ?
DREW: I am going to join the temple as a monk .
DREW: Whoa !
ADMISSIONS MONK: That 's not possible .
DREW: What do you mean , sir ?
DREW: Not in this case .
MONK: Oh , yes , especially in this case .
ASHEMA: You 've had enough . Drew 's shoulders slump even more .
ASHEMA: Not now , Bau Bau .
DREW: Bau Bau ?
DREW: How long ?
DREW: Did they let him in ?
ASHEMA: No .
ASHEMA: What are you going to do ? Are you going home ? Drew shakes his head .
ASHEMA: Give this up , Drew ! Please ? No response from Drew . Just a small smile .
SAN DE: I wish you all the best .
MONK: Do you renounce the earthly world ?
DREW: I do .
DRILL SERGEANT: Answer `` Yes , without pause . ''
DREW: Yes , without pause . The Drill Sergeant nods his head .
DREW: Yes , without pause .
GAO: Shut up !
DREW: Oh , unbelievable , in the same place
SAN DE: Are they ready to begin their training ?
DRILL SERGEANT: They are .
DREW: You got a problem , man ?
GAO: You , American
DREW: No way , man ! Get your own
LI: I will switch with Disciple Gao .
DREW: Jerk !
DREW: Blow me !
LI: Wan an .
LI: Iron Palm ?
SHU: Wooden Man , I think .
DREW: We 're using the shovels as weapons ?
OR: `` Working on a Chain Gang ''
DREW: What 'd you do that for ?
GAO: Back up and let me pass .
DREW: No chance , Gao . You back up .
SHU: Poor guy .
GAO: Let me pass .
DREW: This is ridiculous .
MU: But we swore to obey them
MU: Huh ?
DREW: Are we men or mice ? Sheep or the shepherd ?
WU: I 'm with you !
DREW: I 'm for going to the Headmaster right now !
DREW: We have something to say
SAN DE: I think I 'd better
DREW: No , really , I want to
GAO: It 's not over , American .
DREW: What do you mean , 'Think not thinking ' ?
DREW: I ca n't do this !
GAO: My turn .
MONK: Emotions cloud the spirit  eliminate them .
DREW: This is n't martial arts  it 's gymnastics !
MONK: This is Shaolin Wu Shu . Continue .
LI: Are you trying to kill yourself ?
MONK: Then do it that way The Monk walks away , shaking his head .
DREW: This sure beats sweeping
SAN DE: Come with me San De walks away , and Drew follows him .
DREW: Who 's going to tell , Li ? You ?
LI: We really should n't be doing this
DREW: We 'll be there .
DREW: You dance , and talk . And have a good time .
LI: That clinches it , we ca n't dance .
WU: And we do n't know how to talk to girls
GAO: Like you know ?
LI: How do you know ?
DREW: This is going to be great
GAO: Yes . But , I am not completely blameless
SAN DE: I did n't think you were
GAO: In your dreams
DREW: Now , we 're ready !
DREW: Great party
DREW: No , thanks .
SAN DE: You will not have to .
GAO: Why only you ?
WU: It 's not fair .
DREW: It does n't have to be fair
DREW: I 'm with you !
DREW: What if I ca n't handle it ? What if I fail ?
DREW: Then , it 's up to me .
GAO: Are you staying ?
DREW: Special training ? You mean ?
ASHEMA: Are they making you do this ?
DREW: With pleasure .
GAO: You stink , American !
DREW: I wonder what you did now
DREW: I will , Master .
WOMAN: Why not ?
DREW: I 'm a monk . I 've taken a vow to abstain
DREW: I 'll know ! Throw me my clothes , please .
TOURIST 2: Do they have a gift shop ?
TOURIST 3: Guide ! How do you say 'gift shop ' ?
TOURIST 1: A real live monk ! Somebody , take my picture !
DREW: Oh Mi Two Fwo He then turns and walks away .
DREW: No . American .
ARHAT: I notice the littlest details .
ARHAT: The bus .
DREW: Thank you , Master .
DREW: We 've got to rebuild this ?
SAN DE: Your request is granted .
DREW: I ca n't do it .
SAN DE: That monk was me .
DREW: Anything .
DREW: No problem . Without pause .
SAN DE: Now , a friend would like to see you . alone .
DREW: Did you think he would get into the finals ?
DREW: I 'll help any way I can .
TREVOR: So , let 's see what you 've learned .
SAN DE: You have learned much .
SAN DE: What should be done ?
DREW: For the temple Drew climbs into the ring .
TREVOR: Remember last time , punk ?
DREW: Nothing exists but the moment , and I 'm going to enjoy it . They back up , and the fight begins .
TREVOR: Stay still , dammit ! Stand and fight !
CHRIS KYLE: Fucking hot box .
GOAT: Dirt over here tastes like dog shit .
CHRIS KYLE: I guess you 'd know .
MAN'S VOICE: Get back here .
WAYNE: Do n't ever leave your gun in the dirt .
CHRIS: Yes , sir .
WAYNE: Helluva shot , son . You got a gift . You 're gon na make a fine hunter someday .
WAYNE: Everything dies to give life .
CHRIS: Can it see me ?
WAYNE: It 's a deer , son .
WAYNE KYLE: You shot it , you deal with it .
PASTOR: We do n't see with his eyes so we do n't know the glory of his plan . Our lives unfold before us like puzzling eflections in a mirror . But on the day we rise , we will see with clarity and understand the mystery of his ways
WAYNE KYLE: Some people prefer to believe that evil does n't exist in the world , and if it ever darkened their doorstep they would n't know how to protect themselves those are the sheep . Jeff bites back tears . Chris looks troubled .
DEBBY: Wayne
WAYNE: But we take care of our own . And if someone picks a fight with you or bullies your brother , you have my permission to finish it .
CHRIS: The guy was picking on Jeff .
WAYNE KYLE: That true ?
JEFF: Yes sir Yes , he was
WAYNE KYLE: And did you finish it ?
WAYNE: Then you know who you are
JEFF: Was n't nobody there and you come away with a belt buckle too damn big to wear . What you supposed to do with it ?
CHRIS: You 're supposed to get laid with it . I 'm gon na wear it in and see if it puts Sarah in the mood .
JEFF: A strong wind 'd put Sarah in the mood .
CHRIS: Is that what they say ?
JEFF: You know what they called her in high school
CHRIS: Do n't say it .
JEFF: Sarah suck-a
CHRIS: Who wants to hump a rodeo star ?
SARAH: You said you was n't coming home until tomorrow .
CHRIS: Why would you do this ?
SARAH: Just let him out . He did n't know
CHRIS: You did n't know ?
SARAH: What the fuck is wrong with you ! What 'd you expect ? You drag me out here then run off with your damn brother every weekend !
CHRIS: Get out .
SARAH: You think you 're a cowboy cause you odeo ? You 're no cowboy . You 're just a lousy ranch-hand and a shitty fuckin lay !
JEFF: Some people ai n't worth fighting for .
CHRIS: But she was right
JEFF: A job is a job . At least we 're outside .
CHRIS: Jeff , wake up . Look at this
NAVY RECRUITER: And you 're from Texas and you 're a patriot so it pissed you off .
CHRIS: Yes , sir . But I ca n't see myself on a ship . I 'd wan na be in the fight
NAVY RECRUITER: You wan na fight ? Meet the warrior elite .
CHRIS KYLE: SEALs ?
NAVY RECRUITER: Sea , Air and Land .
CHRIS: I ai n't much of a swimmer
NAVY RECRUITER: This is n't for the faint of heart . Most men wash-out . They quit
CHRIS: I 'm not most men , sir . I do n't quit .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: You a quitter , boy ?
CHRIS KYLE: No , sir !
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: Bullshit , you are fleet-meat . Do n't turn away . Look up and take it . You 're old as fuck . Did you join the Navy cause you had such a good time on Noah 's Arc ? How old are you ?
CHRIS: 30 , sir .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: 30 ! You fart dust and could 've fathered half these boys . You think cause you had a pop-gun back in Texas you 're cut out to e a SEAL ?
CHRIS: No , sir .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: No , you 're not cut out to be one ?
CHRIS: I love water , hooyah .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: My ass you do .
RYAN: No sir , she 's not .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: Do n't lie to me ! I bet we could use he panties as a parachute . What the fuck are you doing here fatboy ? Do your feet get wet when you shower ? When 's the last time you saw your pecker ? You 're not a Seal , you 're a fuckin Walrus . A big giggling Walrus . `` Biggles '' that 's your new name
CHRIS: No , sir .
INSTRUCTOR ROLLE: Was that your ass talking then ?
CHRIS: and when I told her the condom broke she started crying and begging me to do something . And I 'm a virgin , I do n't know what to do , but I 'd heard if you pou Coke up there you wo n't get pregnant So we went to 7-11 , got a liter of Coke and drove back into the woods . She took her panties off and did a handstand against a tree but when I start pouring , she starts screaming , `` it stings , it stings '' but when I 'd stop , she 'd scream `` no do n't stop '' and it 's fizzing out and
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": You really from Connecticut , Dauber ? I never met a hick from Hartford .
DAUBER: Country is countrywide , sir .
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": I do n't think he likes black dudes , `` D '' .
"D": That 's alright , sir . I 'm not black .
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": No ?
"D": No , I 'm new black . We run slow , jump low , swim good and shop at Gap . We make white folk proud then hose their ladies .
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": You hungry Biggles ? I 'd bet you 'd eat the ass out of a low-flying duck .
BIGGLES: Hooyah . I 'd toss that critter shitter on a baguette and get my eat on .
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": Squirrel ! Where 'd you hide your nuts ?
SQUIRREL: Nuts crawled up inside . The little shits are gone for good .
INSTRUCTOR "TONY": How about you old man ? How you feeling ?
CHRIS KYLE: Dangerous , sir . Feeling dangerous .
CHRIS: I 'm gon na try and get into sniper school .
BIGGLES: Can you shoot ?
CHRIS: I can hunt . And what 's cooler than being a sniper ?
BIGGLES: Blowing shit up . Blowing shit up is way cooler .
TAYA: Will a drink make you 6 inches taller and charming ? Will it make you not married ?
CHRIS: It could be the leather pants .
TAYA: Yeah ? What kind of pants does a girl have to wear to be left alone ?
CHRIS: Corduroy .
TAYA: Is that how it is with you guys suddenly single after three beers ?
CHRIS: Only thing that happens to me after three eers is a fourth .
TAYA: That 's great . A real red-neck .
CHRIS: I 'm no redneck , I 'm a Texan .
TAYA: What 's the difference ?
CHRIS: We ride horses , they ride their cousins .
TAYA: What do you do for work ? You look like military .
CHRIS: I polish dolphins . They have to be polished in captivity or their skin disintegrates .
TAYA: Do I look stupid to you ?
CHRIS: To be honest , you look a little sad . She 's taken aback by his observation .
TAYA: Not until you tell me what you do .
CHRIS: How about this one shot , one answer .
TAYA: You 're obviously military . What branch ?
CHRIS: I 'm just finishing BUD/S .
TAYA: Are you kidding me ? You 're a SEAL ?
CHRIS: That was two questions
TAYA: I know all about you guys . My sister was engaged to a SEAL .
CHRIS: What 's that mean you know all about us ?
TAYA: You 're a bunch of arrogant , self-centered pricks who think you can lie and do whatever the fuck you want . I 'd never date a SEAL .
CHRIS: How can you say we 're self-centered ? I 'd lay down my life for my country .
TAYA: Why ?
CHRIS: Cause it 's the greatest country on earth and I believe it 's worth protecting . I 'm sorry this guy hurt your sister but that 's not me . Nice talking to you .
TAYA: Where are you going ?
CHRIS: You said you 'd never date a SEAL , so I 'm going home .
TAYA: I said I 'd never marry one . It 's a lie and they both know it .
CHRIS: Well in that case what 's your name ?
TAYA: Taya .
CHRIS: Nice to meet you , Taya . I 'm Chris Kyle .
TAYA: Pretty egotistical of you to think you can protect us all , is n't it Chris ?
CHRIS: Our instructors say our biggest enemies are ego , liquor , and women .
TAYA: Sounds like you 're under attack . She levels a look and downs another shot
PO TOSH: Feel breath filling every cell of you ody . This is our ritual . We master ou eath , we master our mind-
TAYA: You figured what ? looking for a reason not to be alone .
CHRIS: I wanted to be a cowboy but I did that and I felt like I was meant for more .
TAYA: So you started rescuing girls from bars ?
CHRIS: I rescued that bar from you . She smiles at his sweetness .
TAYA: Only when I 'm depressed .
CHRIS: You want kids ?
TAYA: Someday . My mom says I have a nose fo picking the wrong men .
CHRIS: That 's a shitty thing to tell a girl .
TAYA: I 've proven her right .
CHRIS: But those wrong picks put you here . They made you who you are . And I like who you are . The Ferris wheel casts its glow on them .
TAYA: What happens when there 's a real person on the other end of that gun ?
CHRIS: I do n't know I just pray I can do my job if that day comes . It weighs on him . And she feels safe .
PO TOSH: Mirage is boiling at 35 degree angle .
CHRIS: Check . I 'm dialed for windage .
PO TOSH: Hold right-four , up-two .
CHRIS: You 're trembling
TAYA: I know . I do n't She finds his eyes . Finds her breath .
CHRIS: We do n't have to do this
TAYA: I want to . I do
PO TOSH: You need to shut your off-eye .
CHRIS: If I close my off-eye I ca n't see what 's out there .
PO TOSH: Give me 50 push-ups . Clear and safe . Push ` em out .
CHRIS: There it is .
TAYA: You hardly even know me .
CHRIS: I know enough . You 're a package deal , abe . She stares at the wall .
TAYA: Nothing . Everything . I do n't know . What if it does n't work out ? She moves to stand . He holds her put .
CHRIS: I 'm going to marry you , and we 're going to start a family .
TAYA: You got it all planned out , do n't you .
CHRIS: I love you . I 'm done .
TAYA: Well you 're gon na need a ring if you want to talk all tough like that .
CHRIS: Would you believe me if I told you I was painted green and on an IV two hours ago ?
TAYA: What do you
CHRIS: Package deal babe .
"D": What 's the word , Chief ?
TONY: It 's on boys . Just got the call .
CHRIS: They say it 'll be over in 6 weeks .
TAYA: I 'm so afraid .
CHRIS: Do n't be afraid . It 's all part of the plan .
TAYA: Your heart is beating out of your chest .
CHRIS: I 'm not the only one going to war .
MARC LEE: AQI have put a price on your heads and extremists from around the globe are flooding the borders to collect on it .
WINSTON: Keep your head down , Tex . The Muj ' got snipers too .
CHRIS: A sniper wo n't aim for your head .
WINSTON: They got this sniper that 's been hitting headshots from 500 yards out
CHRIS: They got sniping in the Olympics now ? They start up the stairs .
WINSTON: What 're we looking for ?
CHRIS: You ever hunt ?
WINSTON: I ai n't that kind of red-neck . He unzips and peels off into the bathroom .
CHRIS: You just got your first kill , Goat .
CHRIS KYLE: I got a military-aged male , on a cell phone , watching the convoy . Over .
GOAT: You hear that ?
CHRIS: Get the fuck off me .
MARC LEE: That 's your overwatch , Einstein . You can thank him later . Keep moving .
MARC LEE: Smells like piss in here . You covered our ass out there , man . Appreciate it . Those were ballsy shots .
CHRIS KYLE: And they were clean . Right ?
MARC LEE: Hell yeah , they were .
CHRIS: That sniper walked right up our ass .
MARC LEE: I chewed out our security detail . It wo n't happen again .
CHRIS: My shooter statements are on the dresser .
MARC LEE: Six ?
CHRIS: Should be eight . Two got dragged off . Something wrong ?
MARC LEE: No but you got more kills than the est of the snipers combined .
CHRIS: They still got one of our guys .
MARC LEE: You ca n't shoot what you ca n't see .
BIGGLES: Heard you got your dick wet .
CHRIS: Where is everybody ?
BIGGLES: We 're just picking our dicks here , training those fucking haji soldiers .
CHRIS: Why ai n't you out there ?
BIGGLES: I got the shits . Marc Lee said you were on fuckin fire out there .
CHRIS: You still read comic books ?
BIGGLES: It 's a fuckin graphic novel . Talk to me , man . Did you pop your cherry ? A heaviness falls over Chris , then slowly
CHRIS: This kid did n't even have hair on his alls and his mom hands him a grenade sends him running off to kill Marines .
BIGGLES: You saw his balls ?
CHRIS: It was evil , man . That was hate like I 've never seen it before .
BIGGLES: That kid could 've taken out ten Marines
CHRIS: I know .
BIGGLES: You did your job . End of fuckin story .
CHRIS: It 's just not how you imagine the first one going down .
BIGGLES: How about the other ones ? What about the other kills ?
CHRIS: The other ones were righteous . Like God was blowing on my bullets . He 's joking but not . Biggles smiles , jealous .
JAG OFFICER: Our task here is to make sure every kill is a righteous kill and conforms to ROEs .
CHRIS: By every kill , do you mean just our kills or you 're monitoring the bad guys too ?
MARINE SNIPER: Have n't seen shit all day . Maybe the wa is over and they forgot to tell us .
CHRIS: I got a armed military-aged male moving tactically with a car battery . Maybe he needs a jump ?
JAG OFFICER: His wife said he was carrying a Koran .
CHRIS: Well , I do n't know what a Koran looks like but I can describe what he was carrying it was pressed metal , fired 7.62s and looked just like an AK-47 .
BIGGLES: Listen up ladies and genitals . The Legend here would like you to know that when it comes to sniping it 's better to be lucky than good ! Our boy here has a Texas horseshoe crammed so far up his ass that Chris flings a cafeteria tray at his head .
CHRIS: That 's not how the call-home goes , babe .
TAYA: You knocked me up and now I 'm stuck here y myself assembling baby-cribs and you ca n't talk to me ? That 's the big plan ?
CHRIS: I ca n't stop thinking about that pink silky thing you wore on our honeymoon
TAYA: It 's called a nightgown .
CHRIS: Yeah
TAYA: And three days is not a honeymoon .
CHRIS: It was a good three days . I miss you bad .
TAYA: You want me to talk dirty to you ?
CHRIS: Yeah . But I got my gun in one hand and the phone in the other
TAYA: Well , you 'll just have to decide what 's more important .
CHRIS: You 're horny preggers .
TAYA: Fat and horny . It 's kinda disgusting .
CHRIS: You could be 300 pounds I 'd still do you . She 's touched , hormonal , starts crying .
TAYA: -So romantic .
CHRIS: How 's my boy ?
TAYA: Nobody said it 's a boy
CHRIS: I ca n't wait to see the way you are with him . You 're gon na be incredible .
TAYA: How do you know ?
CHRIS: I just know . I can see it .
TAYA: I hope you 're right .
CHRIS: I have n't checked any email .
TAYA: Shit . You need to call him . Hang up and
CHRIS: What happened ?
TAYA: I 'm so selfish . I was n't even thinking
CHRIS: Taya .
TAYA: Your little brother deployed .
CHRIS: What happened to jump school ? I thought
TAYA: He did n't get in . Just call your dad
CHRIS: Deployed where ? Where 's he going ?
TAYA: Over there . He 's headed to Iraq .
COL. GRONSKI: His name is `` Zarqawi '' and he is the prince of al-Qaeda in Iraq . AQI , his mercenary army , are 5000 strong . They 're trained well , paid well and waging the heaviest urban combat since Vietnam .
CHRIS: These Marines rush in like they been doing , they 'll get their asses shot off .
MARC LEE: They 're Marines . They do n't get the training we do . Half of them were civilians six months ago . Chris reacts , hearing him describing Jeff .
CHRIS: So let 's coach them up . I 'll show them how Team Guys do it and lead a unit in the street .
MARC LEE: Ca n't do . We need you on overwatch .
CHRIS: But if I was down in the street
MARC LEE: House-to-house is the deadliest job here . You got some kind of savior complex ? Maybe .
CHRIS: I just wan na get the bad guys . And I ca n't shoot them if I ca n't see ` em .
MARC LEE: You got a hot hand . These Marines all know your name now and they think they 're invincible with you up there .
CHRIS: They 're not
MARC LEE: They are if they believe they are . Just keep banging on the long-gun and let these ground-pounders sniff out Zarqawi .
CHRIS: You said that AQI sniper was in the Olympics but Iraq has n't qualified a shooter in the last three games .
GOAT: Mustafa 's not Iraqi . He 's from Syria .
CHRIS: Once you make entry I ca n't see shit , so keep it slow and push through the target .
GOAT: No man . No . I like my life . I wan na make it home . I go fishing and do all kind of cool shit . It 's not my job to knock down doors . Those guys picked the wrong fucking job . I ai n't doing that shit .
CHRIS: If I do n't see you down there , you make sure I do n't see you again .
"JEFF" MARINE: Really ?
CHRIS: I 'll roll with you guys if that 's cool ?
CPT. GILLESPIE: Hey , any Navy Seal is cool by me .
THOMPSON: You 're that guy . They 're calling you The Legend . You got like 24 confirmed kills .
CHRIS: It 's 32 . But who 's counting .
THOMPSON: That 's badass . `` SANCHEZ '' chimes in .
SANCHEZ: There 's some boy in Bravo catching up .
CHRIS KYLE: Y'all are meateaters for sure but I got a little training I could show you , some simple shit , that might just keep us above ground . What do you say ?
SANCHEZ: -Whas that mean again ?
GILLESPIE: Cover and follow .
CHRIS: Down . Down ! On the floor , now !
GILLESPIE: He does look a little retarded .
CHRIS: You were ordered to evacuate . Why are you still here ?
SANCHEZ: I found these bitches in the back closet .
CHRIS: Who will know we 've spoken ?
TERP: He calls him - the pure flame of fire- . Basically , this man comes to their house and prey on the weak with hurt .
CHRIS: So he 's some kind of enforcer ?
TERP: He will ask for money .
CHRIS: We do n't even have proof this guy exists .
THOMPSON: Hey , we got a Marine unit pinned down in a house just uprange
CHRIS: Give me a name , Sheik . Give me something .
THOMPSON: They 're out of ammo . If we do n't go now
AGENT SHEAD: I guess that translates to `` pay me '' in just about any language , does n't it ?
CHRIS: Yes sir , it does .
MARC LEE: And you 're the secret squirrel with the cash , right ?
AGENT SHEAD: When you were having tea with Sheik al- Obedie did he tell you he ran a network of highway bandits before AQI moved in ?
CHRIS KYLE: He left that part out .
AGENT SHEAD: That 's AQI 's racket now . Your Sheik got edged out . This could be blowback .
CHRIS: Or he could be upset The Butcher cut off his wife 's hand . Either way , seems like you 'd wan na explore it .
AGENT SHEAD: This is your guy here . We believe The Butcher is Zarqawi 's number two man .
CHRIS: But you do n't know his real name or you 'd have it written up there .
AGENT SHEAD: We have several aliases If `` Fanus '' is legit we go see the Sheik .
MARC LEE: He 's asking for 100,000 .
AGENT SHEAD: If he delivers the Butcher he 'll get it . This is Agent Shead , DIA , I need a name check on `` Amir Khalaf Fanus . '' I 'll wait . He kicks his feet up , like he runs the war .
CHRIS: If we 're going back out , TEAM 3 could pull security
AGENT SHEAD: If we 're humping money the head-shed will want contractors on it . I 'm here . What do you got ?
CONTRACTOR: Road-kill .
AGENT SHEAD: The Butcher is Zarqawi 's enforcer . They say his weapon of choice is a drill .
MARC LEE: I went to seminary school before I joined the Navy . Came close to being a preacher .
CHRIS: Why did n't you ?
MARC LEE: I love to gamble , man . Love those dice . Their laughter is liberating . It bonds them .
CHRIS: My kind of preacher .
MARC LEE: It 's like that now , huh ?
CHRIS KYLE: You have n't heard ? I 'm The Legend . Hey babe
MARC LEE: Hell yeah . Congratu
TAYA: Chris !
MARC LEE: I heard one shot .
CHRIS KYLE: Check . Large caliber . Came in at an angle , got ta be 300 or more out
MARC LEE: He 's all over us . You get a bead ?
CHRIS KYLE: Negative
CHRIS: Minaret , 11 o'clock !
AGENT SHEAD: There 's no room . We 'll come back for you
CHRIS: You got eyes on that ?
MARC LEE: Negative .
CHRIS: Eyes on The Butcher . He 's got that Sheikh 's kid in the street
MARC LEE: requesting back-up . We 're pinned down taking sniper fire on approach of high- value target , GRID 04536236 . Over .
CHRIS: I 'm gon na pop smoke for cover but do n't move till I say . Chris tosses smoke . A haze clouds the exit
MARC LEE: We got ta go
CHRIS: Holding ! Hold
MARC LEE: How you know he 'd wait
CHRIS: Cause I 'd wait . In the smoky haze , A SAT PHONE in the dirt
TAYA: Chris
CHRIS: Go around . I 'll go high .
CHRIS KYLE: He had line-of-sight 500 meters out .
BIGGLES: Colonel Gronski is all over Marc , bro .
CHRIS: We need to work up a squad to pursue him .
MARC LEE: They 're shutting us down .
CHRIS: What do you mean ?
MARC LEE: We 're confined to base pending an incident review .
CHRIS: Can he do that ? Just shelf us like that ? I ship home in three weeks . Wind blows the sheet off Omar .
BIGGLES: It 's gon na be a long three weeks .
TAYA: I thought you were dead . I thought
CHRIS: Shh . I 'm know . I 'm so sorry .
TAYA: I have an alien growing inside me
CHRIS: Our bedroom .
TAYA: Why is n't it on your finger ?
CHRIS: If it catches the light
TAYA: Your hands feel different .
CHRIS: They 're mine . I swear
TAYA: Why am I so fucking nervous ?
CHRIS: I 'm nervous too .
TAYA: No you 're not . Do n't lie .
CHRIS: I am What if that little alien reaches out and grabs me ?
TAYA: Why are you so good with me . Her face opens in ecstasy .
CHRIS: Huh ?
TAYA: What do you want to do today , hon ' ?
CHRIS: Maybe we just relax here ?
TAYA: Okay , we do that . Let 's relax .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: How you feeling ?
TAYA: I 'm done being pregnant . I want to meet him .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: It 'll be any day now .
CHRIS KYLE: Good . Doing good .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: I imagine you 're still decompressing .
CHRIS: Not really .
TAYA: Well , this is the first time we left the house .
CHRIS: I 'm just happy to be home .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: Here , slip this on for me . He awkwardly consents . The cuff tightens .
CHRIS: If you wan na help , you should be looking at my knees . I do n't know what I did but
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: Are you a smoker ?
CHRIS: No , ma'am .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: Do you drink ?
CHRIS: Only when I 'm thirsty .
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: 170 over 110 .
TAYA: Jesus Christ Chris
CHRIS: Is that high ?
DOCTOR HOFFSTADER: Not if you just had 14 cups of coffee . But for someone who is sitting down
CHRIS: I 'll look into it . Thanks doc .
TAYA: What am I supposed to do . You 're not talking . You act like it 's all okay
CHRIS: It is okay . I 'm fine .
TAYA: You 're not fine . Your blood pressure
CHRIS: Babe , I 'm driving down the freeway , it 's sunny and 72 degrees . I 'm fine . But there are people dying over there and I look around and it 's like it 's not even happening . It 's barely on the news , no one talks about it . No one cares . And if I stay too long I 'll forget about it too .
TAYA: Chris
CHRIS: We 're at war and I 'm headed to the mall . She looks pained , ready to cry
TAYA: it 's happening
CHRIS: Oh shit
TAYA: What 're you doing !
CHRIS: I 'm going back .
TAYA: oh my god , you 're crazy ! You 're fucking crazy you know that ?
CHRIS: My little man
TAYA: Do n't bother turning it off , I already watched it . He looks up at her , holding Colton .
CHRIS: This sniper is recording his kills . Mustafa . They sell these in the street .
TAYA: That day we were on the phone Chris nods , it was him .
CHRIS: I do n't want you thinking about it . I do n't need you worrying .
TAYA: My imagination is so much worse than anything you could tell me
CHRIS: No , it 's not . They 're savages .
TAYA: Chris
CHRIS: They 're fuckin savages .
TAYA: It 's not about them , it 's about us . You have to make it back to us .
CHRIS KYLE: Slower than Christmas .
CHRIS: Can you give me a second ?
CHRIS KYLE: Hey , grunt Chris shakes him and pulls him into his arms .
JEFF: Chris ?
CHRIS KYLE: Y'alright ? You in one piece ?
MARINE LCPL: Let 's go , PFC Kyle . Move your ass .
CHRIS: You okay ? Jeff ?
JEFF: I heard you 're kickin ass our here . All the guys , that 's what they say Chris fixes Jeff 's collar a tender gesture .
CHRIS KYLE: What happened ?
JEFF: I 'm just tired , man . I 'm I 'm going home .
CHRIS: I 'm proud of you . You hear me ? He ca n't hear shit over those fans .
JEFF: Fuck this place
CHRIS: What ?
JEFF: Fuck this place .
COL. JONES: You made Chief . Congratulations .
CHRIS KYLE: Thank you , sir .
COL. JONES: Gronski 's gone . A lot of top-brass are . We 're working off a new playbook now .
CHRIS KYLE: Do n't tell my wife , she might take that number right about now .
COL. JONES: I understand you wanted to put together a direct-action squad to hunt The Butcher .
CHRIS KYLE: Yes , sir .
COL. JONES: We plugged the rat-hole that is Fallujah and flushed them into Ramadi . We got some intel indicating his area of operations .
CHRIS: You guys know how I hate this shit so shut your traps . Our target is Ami Khalaf Fanus aka The Butcher . We 'll be heading in under cover of darkness , sector P13 , north of the river
BIGGLES: You give good power-point , Legend .
MARC LEE: Is this thing bulletproof ? You never open it so I assumed
CHRIS KYLE: God , country , family , right ?
MARC LEE: You got a God ?
CHRIS KYLE: You getting weird on me ?
MARC LEE: We had this electric fence around ou property in Oregon and us kids used to see who could grab it and hang on the longest . War feels like that , it puts lightning in your bones , makes it hard to hold on to anything else .
CHRIS KYLE: You need to sit this one out ?
MARC LEE: I just wan na believe in what we 're doing
CHRIS KYLE: Evil lives here , we 've seen it .
MARC LEE: It lives everywhere
CHRIS KYLE: You want to invite these motherfuckers to come fight in San Diego ? Or New York ? We 're protecting more than this dirt . Marc adopts his zeal , letting it fill him .
MARC LEE: Hooyah then . Lets go kill this fucker .
TONY: This building , any apartment on the east side , will look down Fahima Halal .
CHRIS: Breacher-up .
BIGGLES: Private eyes , we 're watching you , watching your every move
"D": Why a restaurant ?
MARC LEE: Big freezers . Marc turns away , leaving them to wonder .
CHRIS: Let 's keep eyes on it get pictures of anyone coming and going .
BIGGLES: Fucking Chief Nappy-nap . A challenging smile . Chris flips him off .
"D": Got some nice rugs up in here . This shit is hand-knotted . Beautiful . Surveillance rolling , Chris closes his eyes .
CHRIS: What do we got ?
MARC LEE: 16 military aged males have gone in .
CHRIS: Sixteen ?
BIGGLES: They serve more customers than McDonalds .
MARC LEE: And check this .
CHRIS: He still inside ?
MARC LEE: I 'm only clocking one point of entry . He 's in there , but it 's no easy breach .
BIGGLES: When they see it 's The Legend they 'll probably just invite him in
CHRIS: You got a problem ? I did n't promote myself .
BIGGLES: No , I did it for you . You 'd never have made Chief if I nicknamed you `` The Myth '' .
"D": Myth becomes Legend when we occupy a house , get 23 kills , and 21 are his .
TONY: Enough . It 's everybody 's Navy . Chris releases him . Biggles is coughing .
BIGGLES: naw , it 's Legend 's Navy now . Just hope he leaves some for the rest of us .
CHRIS: Hash out tactics . We go at zero-dark . And Big Giggles is making the coffee .
TERP: He invites you to join him for Eid al- Adha supper . He says -on this day everyone has a seat at my table- .
CHRIS: Tell him that 's very generous of him .
MARC LEE: That 's a bad move
BIGGLES: He 's our breech . He 's a fucking way in
MARC LEE: If something happens
BIGGLES: He 's AQI man , look what he 's holding .
CHRIS: It 's his choice . Tell him .
"D": 10 meters
"D": Hold . Hold
CHRIS: We have eyes on the target . Flushing them out the back
BIGGLES: Negative . Nothing yet .
CHRIS: Help him
BIGGLES: I ca n't hear you . Say again .
CHRIS KYLE: Move .
"D": Big freezers . Fuck
DAUBER: Biggles ! Watch your six . Roadies on you
CHRIS: Pull back ! Loading
BIGGLES: Got you .
CHRIS: Contact . Eyes on The Butcher . 12 o'clock .
DAUBER: Negative . No shot
BIGGLES: Got you . Got you . Go , go , go
CHRIS: I offered his father detention . I gave him a choice
PFC ALVAREZ: Sir , we have armed insurgents moving this way . We need to make tracks .
CHRIS KYLE: Tell him this boy 's father was fighting for the people that butchered the clerics we found in the freezer in there .
TERP: - This is our territory . If you want to come here , you ask me . If you want to find someone , I find them-
CHRIS KYLE: If I ask for your help you 're the one they carve up next . I 've seen it happen . A crowd of 300 chanting , as Terp translates .
TERP: -I am the seventh son of Isaac of Abraham . This is the land of my father , and I am not afraid.- He says your evil is greater than those you fight . He calls you white satan , devil of Ramadi .
CHRIS KYLE: You tell him to deliver The Butcher to us , or the devil comes back .
CHRIS: Hey , some help here She 's crying
COLTON: But I want that one
CHRIS: You do n't get to choose , bubba .
COLTON: But I do n't like it ! I want that one
CHRIS: You get what it gives you . That 's how this thing works .
YOUNG MAN: Are you `` Chief '' Chris Kyle ?
CHRIS: That 's me .
YOUNG MAN: Sorry to intrude , sir , but we met in Fallujah . You saved my life .
CHRIS: Did I ?
MADS: It cost lots of guys more than a leg .
CHRIS: Did you lose some friends ?
MADS: That too , but I 'm talking about guys that lived . They made it back but they 're just not back . They ca n't seem to get right .
CHRIS: Yeah , I I 'm sorry to hear that .
MADS: You should come down to the VA sometime . The guys would love it . They all know who The Legend is .
TAYA: I 'm making memories by myself . I have no one to share them with .
CHRIS: We have the rest of our lives for that .
TAYA: When does that start ? Even when you 're here you 're not here .
CHRIS: We can wait . They ca n't . A long pause
TAYA: You can only circle the flame so long .
BIGGLES: we are tailing the Butcher 's courier , turning onto Maryland Street . Over .
CHRIS: Here ?
BIGGLES: They 're cheaper here .
CHRIS: You want some savage 's ring ? What if it 's a blood diamond ?
BIGGLES: What the fuck do you care ? You spilled more blood than anyone !
CHRIS: Not for a rock .
BIGGLES: Whatever , man .
CHRIS: Ease off , do n't get too close . You gon na tell her where it came from ?
BIGGLES: Hell no ! I 'll tell her I got from Zales .
"D": Half a block back and we are wet and eady , Big Giggles .
MARC LEE: 20 years from now , we 'll have a reunion and you 'll be married to a dude .
"D": As long as you cook and clean . DAUBER sits in back , shaking his head .
CHRIS: The Butcher has his peepers out .
BIGGLES: This motherfucker is Keyser Sze . Next time you got a shot try not to miss .
CHRIS: I coulda taken him in that alley if I did n't have to save your ass
BIGGLES: Whatever helps you sleep at night .
BIGGLES: You gon na be my best man ?
CHRIS: Is it just me ? Or other guys too ?
BIGGLES: You fucking egomaniac
CHRIS: Get me a shot , grandma .
BIGGLES: That should do it .
CHRIS: What the fuck ! ? How 'd he survive
BIGGLES: Rubber junk-man 's got your horseshoe .
"D": need a two block perimeter around the area . No one gets in or out .
BIGGLES: Clear .
CHRIS: We 're headed to the roof . Secure the van .
"D": The Butcher is building a 7-11 ?
MARC LEE: No ammo , no jihad .
BIGGLES: How the hell 'd he make that ?
CHRIS: He did n't
BIGGLES: So much for leading us to the Butcher .
CHRIS: So much for him having my horseshoe .
CHRIS: She 'll take it to Zales and try to find out how much your spent .
BIGGLES: She 's not like that .
CHRIS: They 're all like that .
BIGGLES: It 's giant , bro . Four karats . It had to elong to one of Saddam 's bitches
CHRIS: No !
BIGGLES: I 'm got it . I got it I can walk
CHRIS: You got nothing to be sorry for . I should n't have had us up there
BIGGLES: Am I gon na die ? Chris looks to Dauber
DAUBER: We 'll rub a little dirt in it , get you a sip of water , you 'll be fine .
BIGGLES: it was always gon na be me
CHRIS: Coulda been any of us . Just hang on
BIGGLES: Not you . Not the Legend . You lucky fuck
CHRIS: Do n't die , Ryan . You hold on
"D": Did you see where it came from ?
CHRIS: He was 1000 meters out . Only one enemy sniper makes that shot .
COL. JONES: Will he make it ? Chris turns away , choked up .
DAUBER: Does n't look good , Master Chief .
"D": Fuck ! The sun high .
COL. JONES: A Shi ' a cab driver we source is saying there 's a stronghold seven doors down .
MARC LEE: Lex talionis Eye for eye , tooth for tooth . They all agree .
CHRIS: We 're going back .
MARC LEE: Two clicks out . Lock and load .
CHRIS: For Biggles .
MARC LEE: Courtyard is clear . Moving .
CHRIS: Some stronghold . Move .
MARC LEE: Clear .
MARC LEE: Somebody left in a hurry .
CHRIS: You sure we got the right address
MARC LEE: Contact
CHRIS: Marc
TAYA: Marc wrote that letter two weeks ago . Did he say any of that to you ?
CHRIS: An AQI informant called in a tip . Biggles had just been shot . We were operating off emotion and we walked into an ambush .
TAYA: Do you want to die ? Is that what it is ?
CHRIS: No .
TAYA: Then tell me why do you do it . I want to understand .
CHRIS: I do it for you . To protect you .
TAYA: No you do n't . I 'm here . Your family is here . Your children have no father
CHRIS: Without this , there 's nothing .
TAYA: Bullshit . It 's not about us anymore . You do n't know when to quit . It 's over- You did your part ! We sacrificed enough . Let somebody else go
CHRIS: I could never live with myself .
TAYA: You find a way ! You have to . I need you to be human again . I need you here . If you leave again , we might not be here when you get back .
CHRIS: I know . Her eyes sink into a well of ruin .
BIGGLES: Chris ? Where are you ?
CHRIS: I 'm right here just give me a minute Just blind as a bat , huh ?
BIGGLES: Yeah It fucking blows . They 're gon na fix my face though .
CHRIS: That 's good . Your face always needed a little fixing . Chris sounds upbeat but his eyes betray him .
BIGGLES: Naw , I bought a new one . A small one . He dad helped me out .
CHRIS: Nice .
BIGGLES: She would n't leave me , bro . I told her to go but she would n't leave .
CHRIS: No she 's not . How can you say that ? She 's getting you . All four inches .
BIGGLES: I 'm glad this happened to me and not you . No way you could 've handled it .
CHRIS: You 're probably right . There is a pause .
BIGGLES: They say you 're the deadliest sniper in U.S. Military history .
CHRIS: Is that what they say ? Biggles grows quiet .
BIGGLES: You 're not going back ?
CHRIS: We 're gon na wall ` em in and hunt ` em down .
BIGGLES: You do n't have to do this .
CHRIS: Yes I do . You 're my brother and they 're going to pay for what they did to you . His mind made up . Biggles moved by it .
BIGGLES: Hooyah , Legend . Hooyah
CHRIS KYLE: You have to ask the Navy . I lost count .
"D": We been shot off position three nights in a row . Fallujah was bad , Ramadi was worse ut this shit is fuckin biblical .
CHRIS: Any other Punishers here ?
"D": Squirrel cycled out . Dauber was coming ack but his wife knocked him up . And if I bring home another rug my old lady 'll murder my ass . Teams and shit .
CHRIS: Teams and shit .
"D": That Biggles news hit hard .
CHRIS: I know . I visited him before I left . That fucker ca n't see shit .
"D": Bro Biggles is gone . He was in surgery yesterday and he died on the table .
CHRIS MESSAGE: I love you too .
RANGER ONE: Moo-who ?
"D": The sniper who shot our boy Biggles . That 's a warning . Ranger One backs off .
DELTA SNIPER: In the middle of a fucking sandstorm ?
CHRIS: What was that
GATE GUARD: Step away from the car !
TRIBAL LEADER: Tell the devil we found his Butcher . We will protect ourselves now .
"D": Enter the fuckin sandman .
"D": That 's a mile . Impossible shot .
"D": It 's your call , Chris .
CHRIS: For Biggles .
CHRIS KYLE: Tango down .
RANGER ONE: You just fucked us , Legend We need Stryker and QRF units , ASAP .
CHRIS KYLE: He was on our boys and I took him out .
RANGER ONE: We are fucked like a football bat .
"D": Mission accomplished . Biggles be proud .
CHRIS: There are two ways onto the roof . We cover both stairways and conserve ammo .
"D": If you FNGs shit your pants , do n't stop shooting . Scoop and shoot . Scoop and
CHRIS: Conserve
RANGER ONE: Negative , negative , danger-close , they 're all over us
"D": Drop motherfucker ! Drop !
RANGER ONE: QRF is stuck three blocks out .
MARINE GUNNER: I 'm out of ammo
RANGER ONE: I do n't wan na get dragged in the street
"D": Call it in . Light us up . Chris wields his .45 , spackled with blood
CHRIS: Do it . Call in our coordinates .
RANGER ONE: This is Rio Two Bravo , requesting ordinance drop . GRID 04837959 . I know my fucking position ! They 're right on top of us . Drop it ! RADIO GOES STATIC , he nods , it 's done .
MARINE SNIPER: White-side ! INSURGENTS crossing the gap . Chris pivots
PILOT: 3-4 , copy that . 30 seconds out .
"D": You 're up
CHRIS: you got four rounds .
TAYA: Hello ?
CHRIS: Hey baby
TAYA: Chris What 's the noise ? Wind howls . F-18 closing .
CHRIS: I 'm ready to come home . I 'm ready She starts crying . The F-18 almost upon them .
TAYA: What 's happening
CHRIS: I 'm coming home . Can you hear me ?
TAYA: Chris F-18 seconds out . Chris looks up and sees
CHRIS: Go , go , let 's move
CHRIS: Stryker-3 , what 's your location
GUNNER: BDUs That 's them ! Drop the ramp .
"D": Where 's Chris ? He was just
DRIVER: I do n't see him
CHRIS: hello ?
TAYA: Chris ?
BOY'S MOM: Get him off ! Get away
DOCTOR: Maybe you saw things , or did some things over there that you wish you had n't
CHRIS: That 's not me .
DOCTOR: What 's not you ?
CHRIS: I was just protecting my guys . They were trying to kill our soldiers and I 'm willing to stand before my creator and answer for every shot I took . The thing that haunts me are all the guys I could n't save .
NAVY DOCTOR: You want to save more guys , walk down any hall in this hospital . We got plenty soldiers that need saving . I 'm going to recommend Zoloft and
CHRIS: How 's it feel ?
WYNN: Feels like The Legend is trying to fuck up my shot . Stay still , man .
CHRIS: I heard you had a nice boot collection efore the war and
WYNN: Seriously man . Why do you do it .
CHRIS: We got ta take care of our own .
CHRIS: Get ` em up , lil ' lady . Hands in the air .
TAYA: Can I tell you something .
CHRIS: Tell it to the judge .
TAYA: I 'm proud of you and I do n't say it enough . I feel blessed . You 're an incredible father and I feel lucky to have my husband back .
CHRIS: We could lock the doors . They ca n't get out of the yard .
TAYA: I know how hard you fought to get here .
CHRIS: You 're worth fighting for .
TAYA: Did you pleat those jeans ?
CHRIS: Yes , ma'am . Right up the middle .
TAYA: Well , you 're just a regular old cowboy again , are n't you ? He kisses her , lifting her
CHRIS: I meant what I said about locking the doors .
TAYA: Are n't you and Chad going to the range ?
CHRIS: Not for four minutes .
TAYA: Is that all it takes .
CHRIS: It 'll take half that . Then I got two minutes leftover just to look at you . He sways with her , dancing a little two-step .
TAYA: Who are you taking out ?
CHRIS: This Marine . His mom does parking at school and she asked for my help .
TAYA: Well do n't be late for dinner .
COLTON: Dad , you want to play Skylander ? Please
CHRIS: I got ta go do something but when I get ack , okay ? But you have to let me win .
COLTON: No way .
MCKENNA: Poke the bear McKENNA pokes Chris and he BARKS like a dog .
CHRIS: I should get going
TAYA: Love you too .
HARVEY: Joyce Joyce ? Joyce springs up , alarmed .
JOYCE: What 's wrong , Harvey ? What are you doing up ?
HARVEY: Tell me the truth . Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book ? Or am I just am I just a characte in that book ? Joyce rubs her eyes .
JOYCE: Harvey
HARVEY: If I die , will 'dat character keep goin ' ? Or will he just fade away
JOYCE: Omigod , Harvey ! Harvey , wake up !
BOYS: Trick or treat ! !
HOUSEWIFE: Well , look at this ! All the superheroes on the porch ! Ai n't that cute .
KID: What about what ?
HOUSEWIFE: Who are you supposed to be ? The kid shrugs .
KID: I 'm Harvey Pekar .
HOUSEWIFE: Harvey Pekar ? That does n't sound like a super hero to me
BOYS: Pecker , Pecker
KID: I ai n't no super hero , lady . I 'm just a kid from the neighborhood , alright ? The Housewife stares at him , confused .
HARVEY: Doc , you got ta help me . My old lady 's dumping me 'cause I ca n't talk . She says I 'm a social embarrassment . Now that she 's got her PhD , she 's some hot shit academic star an ' I 'm nuthin ' ut a file clerk with nothin ' ta say an ' no voice ta say it . But me bein ' a file clerk was fine when I wrote the damn check for her tuition
DOCTOR #1: Harvey , stop talking please , and open wide .
HARVEY: I just do n't get it We were doin ' okay for a while . Then we took that stupid belated honeymoon . I started losin ' my voice on the plane . Can you believe that On the plane , doc ?
DOCTOR #1: Bad timing , I guess . Now please say `` Ah , '' Mr. Pekar .
HARVEY: `` Ahhh . '' `` Ahhh '' ruined the trip . I got crazy , started to worry my voice would neve come back . I mean , my wife did n't know me so long before we got hitched . What if she totally forgets what I 'm like ? Man , it 's torture
DOCTOR #1: Shhh
HARVEY: What ? Is it bad , doc ? The Doctor removes the penlight .
DOCTOR #1: It 's not good . Harvey jumps off the table .
HARVEY: It 's cancer ? First I got marital problems and now yer tellin ' me I got throat cancer ? Omigod
DOCTOR #1: Harvey , calm down . It 's not cancer . You have a nodule on your vocal chords . Probably from screaming and yelling too much . And if you do n't stop talking and give it a rest , you 're gon na lose your voice completely .
HARVEY: Whew Okay , okay . But fer how long ?
DOCTOR #1: A few months .
HARVEY: Months ! !
DOCTOR #1: See ? More of that and you 'll do permanent damage . Now go home , keep your mouth shut , and hopefully we wo n't have to operate .
TOBY: Hi Harvey . You were n't in work today . Are you okay , Harvey ?
HARVEY: Look at 'em yakkin ' . How do they do it ?
WOMAN #2: Ay , what are you looking at ? Maricone ! Startled , Harvey moves on .
HARVEY: They all make it seem so easy .
LANA: Exactly what it looks like .
HARVEY: Whattya mean ! ! You mean yer dumpin ' me ? ! Fer what ? Ah , shit !
LANA: Look , your plebeian lifestyle is n't working for me anymore . Cleveland 's not working for me anymore . I got ta get out of here before I kill myself .
HARVEY: But
NURSE: Thank you , Harvey dear .
HARVEY: Plebeian where the hell did she get that shit ?
BOATS: You know what that means , son ?
HARVEY: Yeah . It 's from an Elinor Hoyt Wylie poem . It means stay away from the crowds of common ordinary people an ' do yer own thing . Mr . Boats laughs .
BOATS: Nope , it means do n't compromise yourself for women . Ai n't gon na do you no good ! Get away from 'em as soon as you can !
HARVEY: Well I ai n't got no woman now . So I 'm living like the stoic bird , man .
MR. BOATS: The only way to live , son .
HARVEY: Huh ? That 's an A.M.-F.M . radio he 's listening to They got 'em fixed up now like a pair of earmuffs .
MR. BOATS: MMPH ! Is n't that somethin ! People have gone crazy . They 'll buy any kinda junk ! Probably listening to that loud rock stuff . Junk , junk , it 's all junk !
HARVEY: Well , I do n't know . Rock music 's got some good qualities . I mean it ai n't jazz or nothin ' . Mr . Boats looks at him like he 's crazy .
MR. BOATS: Say , when you gon na bring me in some good records ? Some Nat `` King '' Cole with Strings
HARVEY: I do n't got any of that , Mr . Boats
MR. BOATS: Yeah , you got it You 're keepin ' it at home , though ! You wo n't turn loose the good stuff You just sell the junk !
MARTY: C'mon , Harv . You dig Jay McShann . You gon na buy that or what ?
HARVEY: I do n't know , Marty . It 's got a lamination crack in it A quarter . Maybe I can get him down .
MARTY: You are one cheap bastard Harvey .
HARVEY: Yeah , I know I 'm tight , man , but I live on a government wage .
CRUMB: You collect Jay McShann , man ?
HARVEY: Yeah , man . How 'bout you ?
CRUMB: Yeah but most of my records are back in Philly .
PAHLS: Harv , meet my buddy Bob Crumb . He just moved to town . He 's an artist at American Greeting Card Company .
HARVEY: That 's cool .
PAHLS: You should see his comics , Harv . They are outta sight .
HARVEY: Yeah ? I 'm into comics myself .
CRUMB: This PETER WHEAT book is by Walt Kelly It 's pretty rare .
HARVEY: Yeah ? Can I get good bread for it ?
CRUMB: Nah ! Not yet .
HARVEY: Listen man , let 's get back to you ook . What are you gon na do with it ?
CRUMB: I had n't thought about it . It 's just an exercise . Harvey flips through the book .
HARVEY: It 's more than an exercise . It 's eaking ground , man . There 's some wild shit in here . Crumb is immune to Harvey 's enthusiasm .
CRUMB: You 're spitting on me , Harvey .
HARVEY: Yeah , ya do n't know the half of it .
HARVEY: I dunno , man . On the one hand most women gettin ' graduate degrees would n't give a guy like me the time a ' day . An ' she married me an ' everything , so I got ta give her some kinda credit . But then she got so mean to me in the end . An ' it ai n't like I tried t'keep her captive o anything like that , y'know ?
CRUMB: Uh-huh .
HARVEY: But do n't think I buy into this `` growth '' crap . Everybody talks about how bad experiences can cause ya t'grow , an ' all that clichd stuff . I 've had enough bad experiences and growth to last me plenty . Right now , I 'd be glad to trade some growth for happiness .
CRUMB: I dunno , man . I got ta go visit this chick in New York . And I 'm really usy with the comic book stuff . It 's good bread and all man but I 'm getting fed up with the whole scene .
HARVEY: What are ya talkin ' about ? Yer makin ' a good living doin ' yer art ? Sheesh . How many guys get that lucky in thei life , huh ?
CRUMB: Yeah , I dunno .
HARVEY: Ya know man , people are startin ' to know the name `` Crumb . '' When you croak you 're gon na leave something behind .
CRUMB: Yeah , my ashes and some crappy doodles . It 's not like I 'm Blind Lemon Jefferson or Big Mama Thornton .
HARVEY: C'mon , man . It sure beats workin ' a gig like mine being a nobody flunky and sellin ' records on the side fo a buck .
CRUMB: Yeah , well that 's true
HARVEY: Damn it !
CASHIER: Frank ! I need a price check .
CARTOON HARVEY: Man , Old Jewish Ladies will argue forever with a cashier about anything . Get behind them in a line an ' ye gon na wait forever !
HARVEY: Shit . Work .
CRUMB: Uh-huh .
HARVEY: I 'm thinkin ' , the guys who do animal comics and super-hero stuff are really limited 'cause they got ta try to appeal to kids . And underground comics like yours have been really subversive or opened things up politically . But there is still plenty more ta be done with 'em , too , y'know ?
CRUMB: Pass me the ketchup ?
HARVEY: I mean with pictures and words , it could be more of an art form . Like those French movies are . Or De Sica over in Italy , y'know ? So I tried writin ' some things about real life . Stuff the everyman 's got ta deal with . Crumb finally looks up from Harvey 's work .
CRUMB: These are about you .
HARVEY: Er , yeah
CRUMB: You turned yourself into a comic hero ?
HARVEY: Sorta , yeah . But no idealized shit . No phony bullshit . The real thing , y'know ? Ordinary life is pretty complex stuff .
CRUMB: These are really good , Harv .
HARVEY: Really ? Ya think so ? Crumb shuffles through more .
CRUMB: Yeah . This is great stuff , man . I dig it . Can I take them home and illustrate them ? Harvey is practically bursting .
HARVEY: Wow ! !
CRUMB: Hey , what 's up with your voice , Harv ? All of a sudden it sounds fine .
HARVEY: I do n't know , man ! I guess you cured me !
DOCTOR #3: I did n't know you could draw , Pekar .
HARVEY: Nah ! I do n't draw . I just write the stories . A buddy of mine and some of his friends do the art work .
TOBY: Harvey , am I in here ? You promised I would be in here .
HARVEY: Yeah ! Yeah ! You 're in there , alright ? Jeez , Toby .
MR. BOATS: Let me see this .
TOBY: Mr . Boats , it 's not polite to gra things . Next time
MR. BOATS: Son , you done good . Ya know , I was up in Toronto a few weeks back an ' I saw the Red Chinese Ballet
MARTY: Hey look guys , here comes Captain America . Harvey rolls his eyes .
PAHLS: You gon na hang with the boys now that yer a comic book star ?
HARVEY: Cut it out . Man , I ai n't nothin ' yet compared to Bob Crumb .
GUY #3: Ah , listen to him . One lousy comic ook and he wants to be Crumb . The GUYS laugh .
PAHLS: Hey Harvey , if ya wan na make comics for adults , ya oughtta put some dirty stuff in it .
GUY #3: Yeah , you can write about Marty 's sex life .
PAHLS: Yeah . Howdja do ? Wudja git offa her ?
MARTY: Ah , lousy . All 's I got wuz armaround .
HARVEY: I got a job I got a job
TOBY: Hi , Harvey . Do you want these gourmet jelly beans ? I gave up sweets fo lent .
HARVEY: Huh ? Sure , I 'll take 'em . Toby watches Harvey eat a few .
TOBY: I recommend the pia coladas . They are excellent and very authentic tasting .
HARVEY: Hey Toby , can you eat lentils during lent ?
TOBY: Sure . I do n't see why not . You ca n't eat meat on certain days , but lentils should be acceptable anytime .
HARVEY: Ya think there 's any connection etween lentils and lent ?
TOBY: I do n't think so but I 'll ask Siste Mary Fred at church on Sunday .
HARVEY: Sister Mary Fred , huh ? Is she cute ? Sounds kinda mannish but who am I to e picky .
TOBY: Harvey , you 're funny . She 's a nun .
HARVEY: So what ? Maybe she became a nun ecause she could n't get a guy .
TOBY: Harvey , she became a nun because she had a higher calling .
HARVEY: Higher calling . That is such a crock of shit . I do n't know why you waste your time prayin ' anyway .
TOBY: Well , Harvey , I like the ritual . And I 'm a very spiritual person . You know , you should try believing in something bigger than yourself . It might cheer you up . Toby turns on his heels and walks off .
HARVEY: What ? Do I seem depressed , Toby ? Toby does n't respond .
ALICE: Hey , you 're Harvey Pekar . Half in a daze , Harvey stares at the chick .
HARVEY: Yeah
ALICE: Alice Quinn . From school . Harvey studies her face . Suddenly , it clicks .
HARVEY: Oh yeah . College . We had a couple lit classes together .
ALICE: What happened to you ? You just disappeared after one semester . Harvey scratches his armpit .
HARVEY: I know , man . I got good grades and all but there was this required math class . I ca n't do math , an ' that equired class hangin ' over my head made me crazy . Eventually the pressure got to be too much .
ALICE: Well , you 're doing okay anyway . I heard all about your jazz reviews and your comics . This perks Harvey up .
HARVEY: Ya did ?
ALICE: Sure , you 're famous . Meanwhile I got my degree but I 'm just a plain old wife and mother .
HARVEY: Yeah . I 'm not doing as great as ya think . My second wife divorced me and I work at a dead end job as a file clerk . Sometimes I hang out with the guys on the corner but most of the time I just stay home by myself and read . Alice laughs .
ALICE: You 're luckier than you think . My husband and kids make it impossible for me to cuddle up with a good book .
HARVEY: I 'm reading this book by Dreiser now
ALICE: That 's one of my favorites .
HARVEY: I hope it do n't end like so many a ' those naturalist novels With someone getting crushed ta earth by forces he ca n't control . Alice smiles .
ALICE: I think you 'll be pleasantly surprised . It 's certainly not a Hollywood happy ending , but it 's pretty truthful . Which is rare these days
HARVEY: Nice car . I do n't have one yet .
ALICE: Can I give ya a lift somewhere ?
HARVEY: Nah . It 's a nice day . I 'll just walk . Harvey looks down , a little sad .
ALICE: Well , we should have you over sometime for dinner .
HARVEY: Sure , I 'd be glad t'come . But if you eally wan na do me a favor , introduce me to some a ' your single girlfriends . I bet they 're all smart like you . I 'm no catch , though , so I 'll take anything you can get me . Alice pecks Harvey on the cheek .
ALICE: I 'll work on it . She gets into the car .
JOYCE: What happened to the new American Splendor ?
RAND: We sold 'em , babe .
JOYCE: All of them ?
RAND: Yep .
JOYCE: Damn it ! I put one aside for myself , next to the register . I did n't even get a chance to read it .
RAND: Whoa , sorry , Joyce . I did n't know you were such a Splendor fan . Next time take it home .
JOYCE: Maybe I 'll call the publisher . But they take so damn long . Shit ! Why does everything in my life have to e such a complicated disaster
RAND: Okay , I 'm gon na hustle before the vibe in here gets any worse .
HARVEY: man , she 's got good lookin ' handwritin '
JOYCE: I do n't know . Where would I stay ?
HARVEY: Hiya . Look , before we get started with any of this , ya might as well know right off the bat . I had a vasectomy .
JOYCE: Nothing .
HARVEY: Somethin 's wrong . Yer lookin ' around everywhere .
JOYCE: I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this .
HARVEY: Me ? I never been here . I thought you 'd like it . But obviously ya do n't , do ya ?
JOYCE: It 's fine . What difference does it make ?
HARVEY: I dunno . None , I guess . They sure got a lot of meat on this menu .
JOYCE: You 're a vegetarian ?
HARVEY: Kinda . I mean ever since I got a pet cat , I could n't eat animals anymore . Joyce grabs a bread stick .
JOYCE: Hmm . I support and identify with groups like PETA , but unfortunately I 'm a self-diagnosed anemic . Also , I have all these food allergies to vegetables that give me serious intestinal distress . I guess I have a lot of borderline health disorders that limit me politically when it comes to eating . Harvey just stares at her .
HARVEY: Wow . Yer a sick woman , huh ?
JOYCE: Not yet . But I expect to be . Everyone in my family 's got some kind of degenerative illness . A cheery waitress bounces over .
WAITRESS: Good afternoon ! I 'm your server Cindy ! What can I bring you two today ? They slowly look up at her .
HARVEY: Look , I was gon na clean up , but why should I give you any false notions ? The truth is I got a serious problem with cleanliness . I could wash a dish ten times and it 'd still dirty . They even kicked me outta the Army 'cause I could n't learn ta make a ed . Joyce puts down her bag .
JOYCE: I 've seen worse .
HARVEY: What , ya got a headache ?
JOYCE: No , but I want to avoid one .
HARVEY: Well lem me tell ya Joyce , it sure is nice ta have company . I mean , despite all your problems , you seem like a great person . An ' hey , sorry if my dating skills are kinda rusty , but I 've just been through hell and back with women . I mean that last one turned out to be a real nasty bitch .
JOYCE: I had a nice time with you , too .
HARVEY: Yeah ? You had a nice time ?
JOYCE: Do n't make people repeat themselves . It 's annoying .
HARVEY: Oh , sorry . They 're inches away from each other .
JOYCE: C'mere
HARVEY: Yeah ? Joyce opens her eyes . She looks uneasy .
JOYCE: Which door 's the bathroom ?
HARVEY: Hey , Joyce ! What 's wrong ? What is it ?
JOYCE: Ugh ! I do n't know . I think that yuppie food did me in .
HARVEY: I feel terrible . Lem me at least do something for you .
JOYCE: Chamomile tea ? What the hell 's a guy like you doing with that ? I thought you drink soda pop for breakfast .
HARVEY: The girl at the Food Co-op picked me out all kinds of herbal stuff . One of 'ems good for stomachaches . Grandma Bear 's Tummy Mint , I think . Are you still there ?
JOYCE: Harvey , we better skip this whole courtship thing and just get married .
HARVEY: Man , am I glad I talked you into comin ' up here . Any more time alone and I mighta lost it fer good .
JOYCE: Me too .
HARVEY: So you do n't have any problems with movin ' to Cleveland ?
JOYCE: Not really . I find most American cities depressing in the same way .
HARVEY: An ' yer okay with the vasectomy thing ? She shrugs .
TOBY: No you ca n't have any of my White Castle hamburgers so please do n't even ask .
HARVEY: Can I have a fry ? Harvey reaches for a handful of Toby 's fries .
TOBY: Okay , but just a couple , Harvey . I 'm not going to eat dinner until very late and this has got to hold me over .
HARVEY: Whattya got , a church function ?
TOBY: No , I 'm driving to Toledo to see a movie . Would you like to come ?
HARVEY: Nah . I got ta fly to Delaware tonight . I 'm gettin ' married .
TOBY: Oh . Why Delaware ?
HARVEY: The chick I 'm marryin ' is from Wilmington . Plus , I got ta help he move her stuff here . Why you drivin ' ta Toledo to see a movie ?
TOBY: It 's not playing at the Mapletown . I did n't know you had a girlfriend , Harvey .
HARVEY: Yeah . We met last week .
TOBY: It 's a new film called `` Revenge of the Nerds . '' It 's about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks , so they decide to take revenge . I already saw it once .
HARVEY: Wow , ya really dig this movie .
TOBY: I like it a lot , Harvey .
HARVEY: What are these nerds like ? How would you describe them ?
TOBY: Hmm Nerds are smart but they look and act differently than other people . Like nerds might wear polyester button- down shirts and flood pants where their ankles and their socks are showing .
HARVEY: So what yer sayin ' is you identify with those nerds ?
TOBY: Yes , I consider myself a nerd . And this movie has uplifted me . There 's this one scene where a nerd grabs the microphone during a pep rally and announces that he is a nerd and that he is proud of it and stands up for the rights of other nerds . Then , he asks the kids at the pep rally who think they are nerds to come forward So nearly everyone in the place does . That 's the way the movie ends .
HARVEY: So the nerds won , huh ?
TOBY: Yes .
HARVEY: Wow . You got this movie an ' I 'm gettin ' hitched . We both had a good month , huh ?
TOBY: Right . Harvey , how long are you going to be in Delaware because I 'd really like to see this movie with you ?
HARVEY: I 'm only goin ' for a week but then I 'll have a wife , so I 'll have to take her along . Is it a girl flick ?
TOBY: Depends on the girl . What kind of girl is your new bride ? Is she a nerd ?
HARVEY: I do n't know , man . Maybe . She 's into herbal teas .
JOYCE: I agree with Toby . I think it 's a story of hope and tolerance .
TOBY: Yes . It 's about time that the people who get picked on get to be the heroes . Harvey scrunches his face in disbelief .
HARVEY: It 's an entertaining flick an ' I can see why you like it Toby , but those people on the screen ai n't even supposed to be you ! They 're college students whose parents live in big houses in the suburbs . They 're gon na get degrees , get good jobs and stop eing nerds . Joyce hits Harvey .
JOYCE: Harvey , what did I say about loud talking ? Use your inside voice .
HARVEY: Look Toby , the guys in that movie are not 28-year-old file clerks who live with their grandmothers in an ethnic ghetto .
JOYCE: That 's enough , Harvey .
HARVEY: They did n't get their computers like you did by trading in a bunch of ox tops and $ 49.50 at the supermarket .
TOBY: You 're funny Harvey .
HARVEY: Sure , Toby . Go to the movies and daydream , but `` Revenge of the Nerds '' ai n't reality . It 's just Hollywood ullshit .
REAL HARVEY: Y'see , I was n't even married a month and my old lady was already showin ' signs a ' trouble . Granted , I tend ta get married fast 'cause I 'll take any woman that 'll have me , but this time I really met my match
DIRECTOR: Okay , I think the thing with Joyce is that as manic as Harvey can be , she matches him with depression . In that way they complete each other . I mean , she 's obviously a very smart woman , but she has a lot of trouble functioning in a world she ca n't control . And she 's totally obsessed with all things negative ; y'know , diseases , dysfuctions , etc .
JOYCE: What about these 78 's , Harvey ? Ca n't you sell them to one of those collectors ?
HARVEY: Are ya kidding ? No way , man . I ai n't getting rid of my 78 's .
JOYCE: Forget it then . I give up ! How can I make more storage space , if you wo n't get rid of anything ?
HARVEY: I 'll get rid of stuff . Just not my good stuff .
JOYCE: Everything 's your good stuff . How am I supposed to live here , if there 's no room for me ?
HARVEY: Aw come on , baby . I 'll make room fo ya . You just have to give me time . I 'm not so good at these kind of things .
JOYCE: That 's because you 're obsessive compulsive Harvey .
HARVEY: C'mon . I do n't wan na hear that psychobabble crap !
JOYCE: I do n't care if you wan na hear it o not . You 're the poster child for the DSM III . I 'll have you know that I come from a very dysfunctional family . I can spot personality disorders a mile away
TOBY: Hello Joyce . Is Harvey home ? Joyce turns to Harvey and points to Toby .
JOYCE: Borderline autistic !
ANSWERING MACHINE: Please leave a message .
HARVEY: Hey Joyce , it 's me . You 're not gon na elieve this but some LA produce called an ' he wants to do a play about my life . Call me ! Joyce flips the page .
JOYCE: Delusions of grandeur . END NEUROSIS MONTAGE
HARVEY: I hate checkin ' bags , man . It always takes forever .
JOYCE: Y'know Harvey , vasectomies are eversible .
HARVEY: Damn Yuppies get everything .
JOYCE: Are you listening to me ? I said vasectomies are reversible . Heads turn .
HARVEY: What ? Whattya talkin ' about ? I do n't want kids . An ' I came clean about my vasectomy the first time I set eyes on ya ' , right here in this airport . More heads turn .
JOYCE: I know but things have changed . I think we can be a family .
HARVEY: Family ? ! What kinda family could we possibly be ? I ai n't no good with kids . I can barely take care of myself .
JOYCE: I 'll take care of the kid and you .
HARVEY: No way Joyce . Forget it . I ca n't do it ; I ca n't have no kids .
JOYCE: I did n't touch it , Harvey . Would you let me sleep ?
HARVEY: But it 's one o'clock ! How late can a person sleep ? Joyce sits up . This time she means business .
JOYCE: It happens to be Saturday you selfish sonofabitch ! And do n't you go telling me what to do . I 'm the one who moved into your city , into your home , into your vasectomy and into your screwed- up life . The least you could do is allow me to live here my way .
HARVEY: We can go out for dinner tonight . How 'bout catching a bite at Tommy 's ?
JOYCE: I 'm not hungry .
HARVEY: I give up .
MALE VOICE: Hi , this is a message for Harvey Pekar . My name is Jonathan Greene and I 'm a producer for LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN . We 'd like to talk to you about coming on the show to plug your comics . Please give me a call at 212-555-3333 .
HARVEY: Aw , c'mon . Who the hell cares ?
JOYCE: Merchandising .
JOYCE: People like this show ? Harvey paces .
HARVEY: I 'm gettin ' hungry back here . They oughtta leave ya donuts or somethin ' .
STAGE MANAGER: Dave 's ready for you now , Mr. Pekar .
HARVEY: Hey , you got anything ta eat ? My stomach 's growling .
STAGE MANAGER: There 's no time to eat now .
LETTERMAN: Okay . Our next guest works as a file clerk in a Cleveland hospital .
JOYCE: Wait a minute . Where 's the doll ?
HARVEY: He 's got it at the desk . Will you elax about that already ?
STAGE MANAGER: Guys , guys , we 're in a hurry here .
LETTERMAN: He also writes comic books which detail his day-to-day pains and pleasures , and this is an anthology of nine of those comics . It 's entitled AMERICAN SPLENDOR From off the streets of Cleveland , please say hello to Harvey Pekar .
HARVEY: I 'm ready for those Cleveland jokes . Go ahead Taken off guard , Letterman laughs .
LETTERMAN: Alright settle down Harvey . Settle down . Now let 's explain to folks who may not be familiar with your work what it is you do here , exactly . You have comic books about you in your daily life in Cleveland .
HARVEY: That 's right .
LETTERMAN: And are they embellished at all o is it pretty much factual ?
HARVEY: No . It 's all true , David . All true .
LETTERMAN: And you also have a regular job in Cleveland working at a hospital .
HARVEY: That 's right . Aiding the sick , yes .
LETTERMAN: Aiding the sick . Well that 's certainly noble work .
HARVEY: Thank you . Thank you .
JOYCE: Such brilliant repartee
LETTERMAN: Now it seems to me Harvey that you have a very successful career here . This is being published by a majo publishing company , Doubleday . Why do you maintain the day job ?
HARVEY: To make a living ! I do n't make a living as a writer . I 've been writing for many years , David . Maybe more years than you 've een alive . Now , Letterman cracks up .
LETTERMAN REGULAR: You know this guy ?
JOYCE: I 'm beginning to wonder .
LETTERMAN: But I have a feeling though , if you wanted to , you could probably get by on what you make selling your work . Because I know people are after you to write other things . You 're publishing this anthology
HARVEY: Who ? What people ? What people ? What are you talking about ? Where the hell do you get that stuff ?
LETTERMAN REGULAR: At least he 's keeping up with Letterman .
JOYCE: Pandering is more like it .
LETTERMAN REGULAR: Excuse me , but what are you doing ?
JOYCE: I 'm trying to get some news . You know there 's a big story about to eak about the US selling arms to Iran and the Contras .
LETTERMAN REGULAR: That 's a monitor .
JOYCE: Ugh . Just forget it .
LETTERMAN: Harvey , I know you 've got a job . I 've got a job . We 're both very lucky . We both have jobs .
HARVEY: Then what 's the matter ?
LETTERMAN: We 've got ta go . Harvey I like you . I 'm on your side . I enjoy the comic ooks . And here , quickly tell us about the little doll here .
HARVEY: My wife made it .
JOYCE: Finally something good . Watch this .
LETTERMAN: They 're made out of your old clothing .
HARVEY: That 's right .
LETTERMAN: And what do these go for ?
HARVEY: Thirty-four bucks .
LETTERMAN: Thirty-four dollars ? Thirty-fou dollars for this ?
HARVEY: What are ya cheap . You cheaper than me ?
LETTERMAN: Would you pay thirty-four dollars for that ?
HARVEY: No but I 'm not asking it . My wife is .
STAGE MANAGER: He 's a natural .
LETTERMAN REGULAR: He is . Good stuff . The Stage Manager grabs the Regular .
STAGE MANAGER: C'mon . Your turn .
HARVEY: Whad'ya think ?
JOYCE: Megalomaniac .
LETTERMAN: Harvey , you are the embodiment of the American dream The Audience laughs .
HARVEY: Go ahead and laugh , folks . But he has more contempt for you than I do !
MTV DIRECTOR: Christ ! Watch where you 're going !
HARVEY: Fuckin ' yuppie or whatever kinda freak you are .
TOBY: Hamburgers are a safer addiction than drugs . Say no to drugs . Say yes to White Castle !
JOYCE: Harvey , I 've been reading about these kids who grew up in war zones Palestinians , Israelis , El Salvadorians , Cambodians These kids are amazing and they 're
YUPPIE: Hey , you 're that guy from the Letterman show , right ?
HARVEY: Yeah , that 's me .
YUPPIE: That 's so excellent . You and Stupid Pet Tricks are a riot .
HARVEY: Yeah ? Then why dontcha buy one of my comics , man . That 's the only reason I go on that dumb show anyway .
YUPPIE: Right , sure . Later , Harvey Pekar ! The Yuppie rushes out .
HARVEY: Asshole .
JOYCE: Anyway , I want to do a political comic book about these kids . There 's a conference in Jerusalem in a few weeks , and I can start by doing interviews there .
HARVEY: Whoa whoa , wait a second . Jerusalem ? I can barely drag you off the futon to go to the Letterman show .
JOYCE: Y'know why ? 'Cause I do n't give a damn about the Letterman show . I want to work on something important to me . Something that matters . Joyce hits a nerve .
HARVEY: Hey ! You know I only go on the show for the extra bread ! People start to look over .
JOYCE: Harvey you 're yelling
HARVEY: Maybe if you got yer lazy ass up and got a job , I could work on something that matters , too , huh ? !
JOYCE: Harvey , you 'll survive a few weeks alone .
HARVEY: Alright Be careful . I love you , aby .
MIGUEL: What is your problem today ? !
HARVEY: Look , Miguel ! I just do n't wan na keep comin ' back here for it , okay ? !
MIGUEL: Harvey , that patient 's due t'be admitted a week from now ! Why do you always have to be picking fights with everybody ?
HARVEY: How many times do we got ta go through the same bullshit . Just gim me the fuckin ' chart ! Offended , Miguel storms off .
MIGUEL: We 'll see what the doctor says about this .
HARVEY: Whadya mean ? Another two weeks ? Ya got ta come home some time ! Hello ?
STAGE MANAGER: Joe , put more sodas in the fridge , there . And let 's clean up the counters . That Pekar guy 's a pig .
JOYCE: I guess you did it this time .
HARVEY: Who cares . He was n't helpin ' my sales anyway . Baby , do n't go away anymore . I just ca n't take bein ' alone . Joyce puts the magazine down .
JOYCE: If you met those kids over there and saw what they go through , you would n't ask that of me .
HARVEY: But if you go again I 'm really gon na lose it .
JOYCE: It 's not open for discussion , Harvey . I need this in my life right now . She cuddles up close to him .
DOCTOR #2: cat scan diagnosis MRI cancer cancer cancer
HARVEY: How can I have cancer ? I do n't feel sick at all .
JOYCE: That 's a positive thing .
HARVEY: My cousin Norman died of lymphoma . He was twenty-nine . He was a brilliant oncologist .
JOYCE: Stop it ! You 're not going to die , Harvey . You 're not . Harvey turns to Joyce .
HARVEY: What 's going to happen to you , baby ? Who 's gon na take care of you if I 'm not around ? Joyce stands up , determined .
JOYCE: Harvey , look at me and focus . We are going to get through this . I understand illness . I know how to handle these things .
HARVEY: But that 's you . I 'm not strong enough . I do n't know how ta be positive . I ca n't do it . I ca n't .
JOYCE: Yes , you can . And I 'll tell you how . You 'll make a comic book out of the whole thing . You 'll document every little detail . And that way you 'll emove yourself from the experience until it 's over .
HARVEY: I ca n't do that . I 'm just not strong enough I just wan na die . Joyce folds her arm .
JOYCE: Fine . I 'll do it without you .
FRED: Hey , I 'm Fred . You called me about the comic book ?
JOYCE: Right the artist . Come on in .
FRED: This is my daughter , Danielle . I had to bring her along . I hope you do n't mind .
JOYCE: Hi , Danielle . What 's that you 're holding ?
DANIELLE: A pony .
JOYCE: A pony ? What 's his name ?
DANIELLE: She 's a girl . Clarissa .
JOYCE: Oh , I see . Well , I 'm Joyce . Nice to meet both you and Clarissa .
FRED: I 'm really sorry to hear about Harvey . Is he here ?
JOYCE: He 's going to work until next week , when he starts the chemo . That 's why I wan na get this project started now . Once he 's stuck here , I know he 'll take over .
HARVEY: Shit ! Harvey tries the doorknob , but it 's locked .
FRED: Hey , Harvey .
HARVEY: Fred ?
FRED: Here are some ideas we batted around .
HARVEY: Sheesh . Joyce does n't know what she 's doing . There 's too many words in these frames . When are ya comin ' ack ?
FRED: Uh , she said something about next Tuesday , which is fine with me . Only thing is , I might have the kid again . My ex-wife 's supposed to take her , ut I do n't have much faith in he showing up . She is in worse shape than me these days .
HARVEY: Next week my treatment begins . Do me a favor . Bring the kid with you .
JOYCE: What 's wrong , Harvey ? What are you doing up ?
HARVEY: Tell me the truth . Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book ? Or am I just just a character in that book ?
JOYCE: Harvey
HARVEY: When I die , will 'dat character keep goin ' ? Or will he just fade away .
JOYCE: Omigod , Harvey ! Harvey , wake up !
HARVEY: My name is Harvey Pekar . It 's an unusual name Harvey Pekar
JOYCE: What is it Harvey ?
HARVEY: That was the doctor .
DANIELLE: I like reading them backward . Is that you ?
HARVEY: I keep tellin ' ya , all of 'ems me , man .
DANIELLE: You look like a monster .
HARVEY: Yeah , well wait 'll ya see what you 're gon na look like .
DANIELLE: Me ? ?
HARVEY: Sure . Yer part of the story too , now .
DANIELLE: What story ?
HARVEY: The story of my life . Danielle makes a face .
DANIELLE: Maybe I want to write my own comic .
HARVEY: Oh yeah ? What about ?
DANIELLE: I do n't know yet . But not about you . You have enough already .
HARVEY: Ya know , you should write about things in your own life . Like school and ponies I do n't know , girl stuff
DANIELLE: Do you have to hold my hand ?
HARVEY: What , are you embarrassed a ' me ? I know , I 'm embarrassing . I felt the same way about my father . Danielle looks up at Harvey like he 's crazy .
DANIELLE: No Harvey . You 're just squeezing it too hard . Joyce is right . You are obsessive compulsive .
THE END: < /pre
TRUCK DRIVER: Here , lads , East Proctor and all about are the moors . I go east here .
JACK: Yes , well thank you very much for the ride , sir . You have lovely sheep .
TRUCK DRIVER: Boys , keep off the moors . Stay on the road . Good luck to you .
DAVID: Thanks again !
JACK: Are you cold ?
DAVID: Yes .
JACK: Good . They walk on , finally
DAVID: Jack .
JACK: David .
DAVID: You 're not having a good time are you ?
JACK: Oh , I do n't know . I mean look around . Is n't this a fun place ?
DAVID: Well , I like it here .
JACK: I 'm sorry . Northern England first , Italy later .
DAVID: Right . They walk on .
JACK: Do you think she 'll meet me in Rome ?
DAVID: I think Debbie Klein is a mediocre person with a good ody .
JACK: Debbie is not mediocre and she has one of the great bodies of all time .
DAVID: She 's a jerk .
JACK: You 're talking about the woman I love .
DAVID: I 'm talking about a girl you want to fuck , so give me a eak .
JACK: Well , anyway , do you think she 'll be there ?
DAVID: I do n't know .
JACK: Rendezvous in Rome starring Jack Goodman and Debbie Klein . The love affair that shocked Europe ! See torrid lovemaking at its most explicit ! See Jack and Debbie expose thei lust in the sacred halls of the Vatican ! Never has the screen dared .
DAVID: If you do n't stop , I 'm going to kill you .
JACK: I have to make love to her . It 's very simple . She has no choice really .
DAVID: It just fascinates me that you can spend so much energy on someone so dull .
JACK: It is impossible for a body like that to be dull .
DAVID: We 've known Debbie what , since the eighth grade ? How many years of foreplay is that ?
JACK: She says she ` likes me too much ' . David just laughs and laughs and laughs .
JACK: The Slaughtered Lamb ?
DAVID: Of course , The Slaughtered Lamb . Why else would they have a severed fox head on a spear as their symbol ?
JACK: That 's a wolf 's head .
DAVID: Of course , The Slaughtered Lamb . Why else would they have a severed wolf 's head on a spear as their symbol ?
JACK: That 's not a spear . It 's a pike .
DAVID: A severed wolf 's head on a pike as their symbol .
JACK: David , before we go in there I want you to know that - no matter what happens to us - it 's your fault .
DAVID: I assume full responsibility .
JACK: Okay .
DAVID: Shall we ?
JACK: Nice to see you .
DAVID: It 's very cold outside . May we come in ?
JACK: Do you have any hot soup ?
WOMAN: No .
DAVID: Well , do you have any coffee ?
WOMAN: No .
JACK: Hot chocolate ?
WOMAN: We 've got spirits and beer . If it 's something hot you want , you can have tea .
JACK: Then you have some hot tea ?
WOMAN: No .
JACK: Oh .
WOMAN: But I can heat some up for you if you 'd like .
JACK: Nice looking group .
DAVID: Listen , at least it 's warm in here .
JACK: Look at that .
DAVID: What about it ?
JACK: It 's a five-pointed star .
DAVID: Maybe the owners are from Texas . The Woman brings them their tea .
JACK: Remember the Alamo ?
WOMAN: I beg your pardon ?
DAVID: He was joking . Thank you .
WOMAN: Joking ? I remember The Alamo . I saw it once in London , in Leicester Square .
CHESS PLAYER: She means in the cinema , that film with John Wayne . Checkmate .
DAVID: Oh , yes , of course .
JACK: Right , with Laurence Harvey and everybody died in it . It was very bloody .
CHESS PLAYER: Bloody awful if you ask me !
WOMAN: No , but we 're about to . Laughter .
CHESS PLAYER: You be quiet , woman , and let me speak .
WOMAN: Quiet , everyone ! Hush ! Shhh ! Uproarious laughter .
CHESS PLAYER: All right , laugh then . I sha n't tell it .
WOMAN: Oh , come on , tell us .
CHESS PLAYER: No . You 've had your chance . The men all coax him to tell the joke .
JACK: Ask them what the candles are for .
DAVID: You ask them .
JACK: Listen , that 's a pentangle , a five-pointed star . It 's used in witchcraft . Lon Chaney , Jr. and Universal Studios maintain it 's the mark of the wolf man .
DAVID: I see . You want me to ask these people if they 're urning candles to ward off monsters .
JACK: Right .
DAVID: Wrong .
CHESS PLAYER: Oh , all right . There was this airplane over the Atlantic on its way to New York . It was full of men from the United Nations .
WOMAN: That 's very funny , that is . Uproarious laughter .
JACK: Go on , ask them .
DAVID: You ask them .
CHESS PLAYER: Here now , let me finish ! So halfway over the ocean the engines run low on petrol so they have to lighten the plane . So they heave out all the baggage , but it 's still too heavy . So they chuck out the seats , but it 's still too heavy ! Finally this Froggy steps up and shouts `` Viva la France '' and leaps out . Then an Englishman .
DART PLAYERS: Hear ! Hear !
CHESS PLAYER: steps up and shouts ` God save the Queen ! ' and leaps out . But the plane is still too heavy . So the Yank delegate from Texas steps up , shouts , ` Remember the Alamo ! ' and chucks out the Mexican .
DART PLAYER: Remember the Alamo !
JACK: Excuse me , but what 's that star on the wall for ?
DART PLAYER: You 've made me miss .
JACK: I 'm sorry .
DART PLAYER: I 've never missed the board efore .
DAVID: Jack , we 'd better go .
JACK: What do you mean ? I 'm starving .
DART PLAYER: There 's no food here .
DAVID: Come on , Jack , shall we go ? ! !
JACK: Apparently so .
WOMAN: You ca n't let them go .
DAVID: How much do we owe you ?
CHESS PLAYER: Nothing , lads . Go , God be with you .
DAVID: Uh , thank you .
WOMAN: Wait ! You just ca n't let them go !
DART PLAYER: Go ! And stay on the road . Keep clear of the moors .
DAVID: Yes , well , thanks again .
CHESS PLAYER: Beware the moon , lads ! David pushes Jack out .
JACK: What the hell was that all about ?
DAVID: I do n't know . Let 's see if there 's an inn or something up the road .
JACK: Beware the moon ?
DAVID: Come on , I 'm freezing . They start up the road into the night .
WOMAN: You ca n't let them go .
DART PLAYER: Should the world know ou usiness ? !
CHESS PLAYER: It 's murder then .
DART PLAYER: Then murder it is ! It 's in God 's hands now .
DAVID: That was weird . I guess leaving was the best idea .
JACK: I do n't know . Now that we 're out here and it 's three degrees , I 'm not so sure I would n't rather face a blood- thirsty mob .
DAVID: Well , not quite a blood- thirsty mob . They keep walking .
JACK: What do you think was wrong ?
DAVID: I have no idea .
JACK: Maybe that pentangle was fo something supernatural .
DAVID: I see and they were too embarrassed to talk about it , ecause they felt so silly .
JACK: Say , David .
DAVID: I 'm well aware of how pleasant the weather is in Rome at the present time thank you . Jack spreads his arms and sings .
JACK: Santa LuciaSanta Lucia .
WOMAN: Perhaps they 'll be safe in the ain .
CHESS PLAYER: No one brought them here ! No one wanted them here !
WOMAN: You could have told them !
DART PLAYER: Are you daft ? What do you think they 'd say ? They 'd think us mad .
WOMAN: Listen !
DART PLAYER: I heard nothing .
CHESS PLAYER: Nor I .
JACK: Did you hear that ?
DAVID: I heard that .
JACK: What was it ? David begins to walk , Jack with him .
DAVID: Could be a lot of things .
JACK: Yeah ?
DAVID: A coyote .
JACK: There are n't any coyotes in England .
DAVID: The Hound of the Baskervilles .
JACK: Pecos Bill .
DAVID: Heathcliffe .
JACK: Heathcliffe did n't howl .
DAVID: No , but he was on the moors .
JACK: It 's a full moon , ` beware the moon ' .
DAVID: Yeah .
JACK: Shit ! David , what is that ?
DAVID: I do n't know . Come on .
JACK: Come on , where ?
DAVID: Anywhere ! I think we should just keep moving .
JACK: It 's circling us .
DAVID: What 's the plan ?
JACK: Plan ?
DAVID: Let 's just keep walking . They do and David keeps talking as they walk .
JACK: Do you think it 's a dog ?
DAVID: A sheep dog or something . Turn slowly and let 's walk away .
JACK: Nice doggie . Good boy .
DAVID: Walk away , Jack .
JACK: Walking away , yes , sir . Here we are walking away .
DAVID: See anything ?
JACK: No . A moment of quiet , then a howl .
DAVID: It sounds far away .
JACK: Not far enough . Come on . They walk briskly .
DAVID: Jack ?
JACK: Yeah .
DAVID: Where are we going ?
JACK: I 'll tell you when we get there .
DAVID: Well . I 'm glad weWHOAA ! !
JACK: You really scared me , you shithead .
DAVID: Are you going to help me up ?
JACK: Jesus fuck ! David ! Please help me ! Please ! David ! Shit ! Help me ! Oh God !
DAVID: Jack ? Oh my God , Jack !
DAVID: Jack ? !
ALEX: Mr. Kessler ?
MISS GALLAGHER: He all right ?
ALEX: Yes , I should think . He called out just now .
MISS GALLAGHER: He 's an American , you know . Dr. Hirsch is going to fetch ound one of those Embassy fellows to see him .
ALEX: Chart says he 's from New York .
MISS GALLAGHER: I think he 's a Jew .
ALEX: Why on earth do you say that ?
MISS GALLAGHER: I looked .
ALEX: Really , Susan , I do n't think that was very proper , and esides , it 's common practice now . A voice startles the girls .
DR. HIRSCH: Yes , Miss Gallagher , Miss Price is quite right .
ALEX: Dr. Hirsch , Mr. Kessler cried out a minute ago .
DR. HIRSCH: Miss Gallagher , surely you must perform some function here at the hospital .
MISS GALLAGHER: Yes , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: Then get on with it .
MISS GALLAGHER: Yes , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: Can I be of service , Miss Price ?
ALEX: Dr. Hirsch ?
DR. HIRSCH: Go about your duties .
ALEX: Yes , Doctor . She starts to exit .
DR. HIRSCH: Oh , Miss Price ?
ALEX: Yes , Doctor ?
DR. HIRSCH: What exactly did he call out ?
ALEX: He said ` Jack ' .
DR. HIRSCH: That would be Jack Goodman , the boy who was killed .
ALEX: What happened to them ?
DR. HIRSCH: The police report said an escaped lunatic attacked them . He must have been a very powerful man . Although I eally do n't see that it is any of your concern , Miss Price .
ALEX: No , sir . Of course , sir . Good day , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: Hello , David . I am Dr. Hirsch and this is a countryman of yours , Mr. Collins .
DAVID: Where am I ?
DR. HIRSCH: You 're in a hospital in London .
DAVID: London ? Where 's Jack ? I had a strange dream .
DR. HIRSCH: I should think so after you ecent traumatic experiences .
DAVID: The guy I was with . Is he all ight ? How did I get to London ?
DR. HIRSCH: Now , David , I want you to prepare yourself ; your friend is dead . David jolts up in bed and shouts .
DAVID: What ? The sudden exertion and strain hurt .
MR. COLLINS: Mr. Kessler , I am Mr. Collins of the American Embassy here in Grosvenor Square . Both Mr. Goodman 's parents and you parents have been notified of your injuries and everything 's in order .
DAVID: Everything 's in order ? What are you talking about ?
MR. COLLINS: Mr. Goodman 's body has been air-freighted back to New York for burial and your parents have wired funds for your stay in the hospital until you are well enough to fly home .
DAVID: You do n't crate and ship Jack like some side of beef . Who the hell are you people ? What 's going on here ? Where is Jack ? I demand to see him !
DR. HIRSCH: Miss Price ! Miss Price , please !
DAVID: Get your fucking hands off me ! What the hell is going on here ?
MR. COLLINS: I realize how upsetting this must be for you , Mr. Kessler , ut please try to refrain from hysterics . David continues shouting and struggling .
DR. HIRSCH: Prepare a hypodermic , please , Miss Price .
MR. COLLINS: Now , Mr. Kessler , try not to excite yourself . Everything has been arranged . I shall come back to check on you progress and send a report to your parents . The police have equested to interview you and I have given them permission to do so . Dr. Hirsch walks Mr. Collins to the door .
DR. HIRSCH: Thank you very much , Mr. Collins . He 'll rest now and I 'm sure everything will be fine once he 's adjusted . He 's had quite a shock .
MR. COLLINS: These dumb-ass kids neve appreciate anything you do fo them .
DAVID: How long have I been here ?
DR. HIRSCH: You 've been unconscious since you were brought in two weeks ago .
DAVID: Two weeks ?
DR. HIRSCH: You 've suffered some rathe severe cuts and bruises , lost a bit of blood , but nothing too serious ; black and blue for a while . You 'll have some dueling scars to boast of . That lunatic must have been a very fierce fellow . They say a mad man has the strength of ten .
DAVID: Lunatic ?
DR. HIRSCH: Now we 've just given you a pretty strong sedative , so try to get some rest now . Miss Price will see to your needs . Rest now .
DAVID: It was n't a lunatic .
ALEX: I beg your pardon ?
DAVID: It was a wolf .
ALEX: What ?
DAVID: A wolf . David passes out . Alex looks to Dr. Hirsch .
DR. HIRSCH: Did he say a wolf ?
ALEX: Yes , I believe he did . Dr. Hirsch regards David thoughtfully .
DR. HIRSCH: But Roger is so terribly oring . Yes , dear , but could n't weI see . Thursday at eight , dinner with oring Roger . Yes , I 'm sure I will ; if I survived Rommel , I suppose I 'll survive anothe excruciating evening with Roger Mathison . Be a good girl . Bye .
LT. VILLIERS: Dr. Hirsch ?
DR. HIRSCH: Come in , come in . Please sit . Some tea ?
LT. VILLIERS: No , thank you . SGT . McMANUS I 'd like some tea , please .
DR. HIRSCH: It 's no problem .
LT. VILLIERS: No , thank you , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: Well , then , what can I do fo Scotland Yard ? SGT . McMANUS We understand the Kessler boy has regained consciousness . Lt. Villiers glares at McManus . SGT . McMANUS Sorry .
LT. VILLIERS: Has Mr. Kessler said anything egarding the attack on the moors ? The intercom buzzes .
DR. HIRSCH: Excuse me . Yes ?
LT. VILLIERS: Has David Kessler anything to say concerning the attack on the moors ?
DR. HIRSCH: Why do n't we ask him ?
DAVID: I 'm sorry if I conflict with your report , but Jack and I were not attacked by a man .
LT. VILLIERS: So you 've said . SGT . McMANUS He may have a point , Lieutenant . Two strong boys would be able to defend themselves against one man .
DAVID: There were witnesses ?
DR. HIRSCH: So they said .
DAVID: How could there have been witnesses ? It was so dark . We were running and I fell and Jack went to help me up and this thing came from nowhereI do n't understand what they 're talking about .
DR. HIRSCH: In time I 'm sure it will all come back to you .
DAVID: Doctor , my memory is fine . It 's my sanity I 'm beginning to worry about .
MISS GALLAGHER: Mr. Kessler ? Wake up , please .
DAVID: I was having a nightmare .
MISS GALLAGHER: Yes , well these should help that . That 's right , drink up . David takes the pills .
DAVID: What time is it ?
MISS GALLAGHER: It 's nearly eight . I 'm off duty shortly , then I 'm off to the films with Alex .
DAVID: Alex ?
MISS GALLAGHER: Miss Price , the other nurse that attended you .
DAVID: What are you going to see ?
MISS GALLAGHER: An American film about the Mafia called ` See You Next Wednesday ' , and I want to see it badly , so you give me no problems and go to sleep .
DAVID: Do you have bad dreams , too ?
MISS GALLAGHER: Some , everyone does .
DAVID: Yes , but does everyone kill Bambi ?
MISS GALLAGHER: Bambi ?
MRS. HOBBS: Miss Price .
ALEX: Yes , Mrs. Hobbs .
MRS. HOBBS: Take these round now , will you please ? The American boy in twenty-one is only to have these after he 's eaten . Will you be sure of that ?
ALEX: Has he been refusing food ?
MRS. HOBBS: Nothing quite as dramatic as that , Miss Price . He just does n't eat enough of what is put before him . He suffers from nightmares . I 'd think he just needs a hand to hold .
ALEX: Yes , Mrs. Hobbs .
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: No what ?
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: Well , all right then , be that way . Here , swallow this .
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: Feeling better ?
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: The doctor will be round later . Would you like a picture book to look at ? We have some lovely funny Beanos .
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: Right .
ORDERLY: The American ? Yes , duck .
ALEX: How did he look ?
ORDERLY: What do you mean , ` how did he look ' ?
ALEX: You know , did he seem depressed ? Do you think he 'll eat the food ?
ORDERLY: I 'm an orderly , not a bleeding psychiatrist ! I push things about , but I 've little say what happens to them .
ALEX: Thank you .
DAVID: Yes ?
ALEX: You have n't eaten your lunch .
DAVID: I 'm not very hungry , thank you .
ALEX: I 'm afraid you have to eat something .
DAVID: Please , really . I 'm not hungry .
ALEX: You put me in an awkward position , Mr. Kessler .
DAVID: How is that ?
ALEX: Well , you 're to take these after you 've eaten . Now what kind of nurse would I be if I failed in so simple a task as giving out some pills ?
DAVID: Leave the pills . I 'll take them later .
ALEX: Sorry .
DAVID: Aw come on , Miss Price !
ALEX: Call me Alex .
DAVID: Aw come on , Alex !
ALEX: Shall I be forced to feed you , Mr. Kessler ? David is getting interested .
DAVID: Call me David .
ALEX: Shall I be forced to feed you , David ?
DAVID: This is absurd . I 'm not hungry . I do n't want any food .
ALEX: Right .
DAVID: Will you give me a break ?
ALEX: Will I have to take such drastic action again , David ?
DAVID: May I have a glass of milk ? Alex smiles .
MRS. HOBBS: Orderly ! Miss Gallagher ! Miss Gallagher and an ORDERLY appear at once .
DR. HIRSCH: You 've never had bad dreams efore ?
DAVID: Sure , as a kid . But never so eal . Never so bizarre .
DR. HIRSCH: Did you get a good look at the man who attacked you ?
DAVID: I 've told you , it was n't a man . It was an animal . A big wolf or something . A rabid dog .
DR. HIRSCH: Yes .
DAVID: Look , Dr. Hirsch , I know I 've een traumatized , but Jack was torn apart . I saw him . A man ca n't do that to someone with his bare hands .
DR. HIRSCH: You 'd be surprised what horrors a man is capable of .
DAVID: Did you see Jack ?
DR. HIRSCH: No . In fact , your wounds were cleaned and dressed before you arrived here .
DAVID: Did you talk to the police in East Proctor ? Did the cops go to The Slaughtered Lamb ?
DR. HIRSCH: I really do n't know .
DAVID: Then why the hell are you so quick to disbelieve me ? You yourself said it must have taken incredible strength to tear apart a person like that .
DR. HIRSCH: David , please . The police are satisfied . I 'm certain that if a monster were out roaming northern England we 'd have seen it on the telly .
DAVID: You really think I 'm crazy , do n't you ?
DR. HIRSCH: Believe me . The Hound of the Baskervilles was an invention of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 's . And if you 'd read the bloody ook , you 'd find that Holmes discovered your house of hell a fraud , a fake .
DAVID: Dr. Hirsch ? I 'd rather not be by myself .
DR. HIRSCH: Of course not , David . I 'll fetch in young Miss Price .
DAVID: You 're a very beautiful girl .
ALEX: I thought you were asleep .
DAVID: I was . What are you reading ?
ALEX: ` A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court ' by Mark Twain .
DAVID: Do you like it ?
ALEX: I 've just started it . My friend gave it to me . They look at each other .
DAVID: I dream of death mostly .
ALEX: I 'm sorry . I should n't have asked you .
DAVID: It 's okay . I want to talk to you .
ALEX: That 's not really a very proper question .
DAVID: How old are you ?
ALEX: Twenty-eight .
DAVID: I 'm twenty-seven .
ALEX: I know .
DAVID: Now what do you want to talk about ?
ALEX: Was Jack Goodman your good friend ?
DAVID: My best friend . My very best friend .
ALEX: Shall I read to you ?
DAVID: What ? Oh , yes , please .
ALEX: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur 's Court by Samuel L. Clemens . This is after the preface but before chapte one A Word of Explanation . You all right ?
DAVID: Yes , go on .
ALEX: Ahem , A Word of Explanation . It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about . He attracted me y three things his candid simplicity , his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor , and the restfulness of his company - for he did all the talking . We fell togethe as modest people will in the tail of the herd .
FATHER: I 'll get it . The pounding continues .
DAVID: Stop !
ALEX: Hello . You all right ?
DAVID: I 'm sorry I woke you up .
ALEX: Do n't be silly . Can I get you something ?
DAVID: No , thank you . Just keep me company for a while .
ALEX: That 's easy enough .
DAVID: I keep having these really terrible dreams . They are getting worse and I ca n't seem to stop them .
ALEX: David , your dreams will stop . You 'll leave England and you ad memories ; and then this will all fade away .
DAVID: Will you come with me ?
ALEX: What ?
DAVID: I 'm serious . You do n't know me and I know nothing about you . We have a perfect elationship .
ALEX: Now , David , I said I would keep you company , but I meant ight here and now .
DAVID: Will you think about it ?
ALEX: How did we get from your bad dreams to my taking a holiday with a patient ?
DAVID: Not just a patient me .
ALEX: You 're being awfully forward , are n't you ?
DAVID: Forgive me , I 'm trying to cheer myself up and an affai with a beautiful nurse seemed like just the thing to do it .
ALEX: All I am to you is a sex fantasy then ?
DAVID: Now I 'm embarrassed .
ALEX: Good . I thought for a moment I was the only embarrassed one in the room . There is an awkward pause .
DAVID: Where were we in the book ?
ALEX: Let me see here .
ORDERLY: Ah you 're up . Good morning and a good day to you . We 've quite a meal for you here this morning . Bacon , oatmeal , orange juice , and toast with jam . Good stuff there . Now eat it up and I 'll be back fo the dishes when you 've finished .
DAVID: Good morning .
JACK: Nice to see you .
DAVID: Get the fuck out of here , Jack .
JACK: Thanks a lot .
DAVID: This is too much . I ca n't handle this .
JACK: I 'm aware that I do n't look so great , but I thought you 'd be glad to see me .
DAVID: Hurting your feelings ? Has it occurred to you that it may be unsettling to have you rise from your grave to visit me ? Listen to me , I 'm talking to a hamburger !
JACK: I 'm sorry to be upsetting you , David , but I had to come .
DAVID: Are n't you supposed to be uried in New York someplace ?
JACK: Yeah . Your parents came to my funeral . I was surprised at how many people came .
DAVID: Why should you be surprised ? You were a very well-liked person .
JACK: Debbie Klein cried a lot .
DAVID: I ca n't stand it .
JACK: So you know what she does ? She 's so grief stricken she uns to find solace in Rudy Levine 's bed .
DAVID: Rudy Levine the shmuck ?
JACK: Life mocks me even in death . Jack takes another bite of toast .
DAVID: I 'm going completely crazy .
JACK: David !
DAVID: What ? !
JACK: David , now I know this may be hard for you , but I have to warn you .
DAVID: Warn me ? Will you get out of here , you meat loaf ?
JACK: I 'm a grisly sight , it 's true ; ut I love you and that 's why I 'm here . You 've got to know .
DAVID: If you love me so much , Jack , you 'll realize how disconcerting it is to share one 's breakfast with the living dead !
JACK: We were attacked by a werewolf .
DAVID: I 'm not listening !
JACK: On the moors , we were attacked y a lycanthrope , a werewolf .
DAVID: Shut up , you zombie !
JACK: I was murdered , an unnatural death , and now I walk the earth in limbo until the werewolf 's curse is lifted .
DAVID: What 's wrong with you ? Shut up !
JACK: The wolf 's bloodline must be severed . The last remaining werewolf must be destroyed .
DAVID: Will you be quiet ? ! Jack rises and comes closer to David .
JACK: It 's you , David .
DAVID: What ? !
JACK: You survived and now you shall continue the curse .
DAVID: What are you talking about ? I wo n't accept this ! Get out ! God damit !
JACK: Remember what that guy at The Slaughtered Lamb said ? ` Beware the moon . '
DAVID: Stop it , Jack .
JACK: Beware the moon . The full moon , David . You 've got two days .
DAVID: Jack , please go away . Please go away .
JACK: You 'll stalk the streets of London a creature of the night .
DAVID: You 're talking like Boris Karloff ! It 's movie dialogue !
JACK: David , please believe me . You will kill people , David . You 've got to stop the loodshed before it begins .
DAVID: Nurse !
JACK: Listen to me ! Take your own life , David . It 's our only chance .
DAVID: Nurse !
JACK: The supernatural ! The powers of darkness ! It 's all true . Take your own life ! Suicide , David . Join me .
DAVID: Nurse ! Oh God ! Alex !
JACK: It 's cold , David , and I 'm so alone . The undead surround me . Have you ever talked to a corpse ? It 's boring ! I 'm lonely ! Kill yourself , David , efore you kill others .
ALEX: David ? David !
DAVID: I 'm a werewolf .
ALEX: A werewolf ?
DAVID: I 'll let you know the next full moon .
ALEX: You 're to be discharged tomorrow . Will you be all ight ? David takes Alex 's hand .
DAVID: My friend Jack was just here .
ALEX: Your dead friend Jack ?
DAVID: Yeah . He says that I will ecome a monster in two days . What do you think ?
ALEX: What do I think ? You mean about the possibility of you ecoming a monster in two days or about visits from dead friends ?
DAVID: I was dreaming again ?
ALEX: I would think so .
DAVID: Yeah , I would think so , too . Alex considers for a while , finally .
ALEX: Do you have a place to stay in London ?
DAVID: Very nice . She proceeds to give the tour .
ALEX: Closet .
DAVID: Charming .
ALEX: Bathroom .
DAVID: Lovely .
ALEX: The bedroom .
DAVID: There is only one bed .
ALEX: David , perhaps you 'd like to watch the telly while I take a shower .
DAVID: It 's nice to see you .
ALEX: It 's nice to see you .
DAVID: Alex ?
ALEX: Yes ?
DAVID: Will you be here in about fifteen minutes ?
ALEX: Of course .
DAVID: Good . Alex props herself up on one elbow .
ALEX: David , you do n't honestly elieve that in reality you friend Jack rose from the grave to breakfast with you ? Do you really ?
DAVID: I was awake and he was in my oom .
ALEX: But , David .
DAVID: I was n't hallucinating . Pause .
ALEX: Tomorrow is the full moon .
DAVID: That 's good , Alex . Reassure me . Alex begins kissing David 's neck .
DAVID: You 're not real .
JACK: Do n't be an asshole , David . Come here .
DAVID: What are you doing here ?
JACK: I wanted to see you .
DAVID: Okay , you 've seen me . Now go away .
JACK: David , I 'm sorry I upset you yesterday , but you must understand what is going on .
DAVID: I understand all right . You 're one of the undead and I 'm a werewolf .
JACK: Yes .
DAVID: Get out of here , Jack !
JACK: David , tomorrow night is the full moon . You 'll change , you 'll become .
DAVID: A monster . I know , I know .
JACK: You must take your own life now , David , before it 's too late .
DAVID: Jack , are you really dead ?
JACK: What do you think ?
DAVID: I think I 've lost my mind . I think you 're not real . I think I 'm asleep and you 're a part of another bad dream .
JACK: You must believe me .
DAVID: What , Jack ? That tomorrow night beneath the full moon I 'll sprout hair and fangs and eat people ? Bullshit !
JACK: The canines will be real . You 'll taste real blood ! God damit , David , please believe me ! You 'll kill and make others like me ! I 'm not having a nice time , David ! Do n't allow this to happen again ! You must take your own life !
DAVID: I will not accept this ! Now go away !
ALEX: David ?
JACK: This is not pretend , David .
DAVID: I will not be threatened by a walking meat loaf ! Alex enters the room .
ALEX: David , what 's wrong ? I heard voices . David turns and sees that Jack is gone .
DAVID: It was just me , Alex . It was just me .
DR. HIRSCH: A drink for a very cold man ? The Woman comes in from the back .
WOMAN: Hello , there . What can I get you ?
DR. HIRSCH: Campari and soda would do nicely .
WOMAN: Sorry , love .
DR. HIRSCH: I suppose Guinness will suffice .
DART PLAYER: I 'm afraid I do n't know what you mean , sir .
DR. HIRSCH: Yes , I 'm sure that 's right . A few weeks ago , the last full moon was n't it ?
CHESS PLAYER: And where are you from , sir ?
DR. HIRSCH: London . Knight takes pawn .
CHESS PLAYER: What ?
DR. HIRSCH: What 's that ?
WOMAN: Oh , that 's been there for two hundred years . We were going to paint it out , but it 's traditional , so we left it .
DR. HIRSCH: I see . You 've heard nothing about the incident ?
DART PLAYER: Incident ?
DR. HIRSCH: The murder ?
CHESS PLAYER: Are you a police officer ?
DR. HIRSCH: No , no , hardly . I work in the hospital where the Kessler boy was brought .
DART PLAYER: You thought what ?
DR. HIRSCH: I thought I 'd look into the oy 's story .
CHESS PLAYER: A story about werewolves - now eally , sir . Dr. Hirsch eyes the Chess Player .
DR. HIRSCH: Would you like a game of chess ?
ALEX: Let me go now , you 'll make me late .
DAVID: Do me an enormous favor ?
ALEX: Anything .
DAVID: Tell me that it 's silly of me to be apprehensive .
ALEX: It 's silly of you to be apprehensive .
DAVID: Werewolves simply do not exist .
ALEX: David , do you want me to stay here tonight ?
DAVID: Yeah , I do , but go to work . He opens the door and they both go outside .
ALEX: Listen , if you get too anxious , call me at the hospital , okay ?
DAVID: Okay .
ALEX: I 've left those pills for you .
DAVID: A doper werewolf . They kiss again .
ALEX: I 'm off . There 's food in the fridge .
DAVID: See you later .
ALEX: How are we feeling tonight ?
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: No what ?
BENJAMIN: No !
ALEX: Benjamin , have you ever been severely beaten about the face and neck ?
BENJAMIN: No .
ALEX: I thought not . She tucks him in .
DAVID: Jesus Christ !
WOMAN: Which one , Harry ?
MAN: Number thirty-nine , but let 's go ` round the back .
WOMAN: Why ?
MAN: Come on , we 'll give Sean a scare .
WOMAN: You 're crazy , Harry .
HARRY: Come on .
WOMAN: Did you hear something ?
HARRY: Just now ?
WOMAN: Yes .
HARRY: No . Here we are , Sean 's is the one .
WIFE: Sean , those hooligans are in the park again .
SEAN: Are n't you ready yet ? They 'll e here any minute .
WIFE: Something 's going on out there .
DR. HIRSCH: Is Miss Price on duty this evening ?
MRS. HOBBS: Yes , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: Miss Gallagher , do you know if Miss Price has seen the Kessler boy since his release ? Miss Gallagher is not sure how to answer .
MISS GALLAGHER: Uh , I do n't know if . Alex has walked up and overheard the last .
ALEX: It 's all right , Susan . Yes , Doctor , I have .
DR. HIRSCH: Come to my office , Miss Price .
SEAN: Is anyone there ?
DR. HIRSCH: Sit down , Alex .
ALEX: Yes , sir .
DR. HIRSCH: It 's a full moon . Where is he ?
ALEX: At my flat . I 'm off at midnight and . Dr. Hirsch picks up the phone .
DR. HIRSCH: The number , Alex . You number !
DR. HIRSCH: He 's not there . Alex grows worried .
ALEX: He 's not ?
DR. HIRSCH: Alex , has David persisted in his werewolf fantasies ?
ALEX: Well , yes , but he seems to be more upset by the death of his friend .
DR. HIRSCH: Has his friend appeared to him again ?
ALEX: Yes .
DR. HIRSCH: What did he say ?
ALEX: David says Jack comes to warn him .
DR. HIRSCH: Warn him ?
ALEX: Dr. Hirsch , what 's wrong ? Is this more serious than I know ?
DR. HIRSCH: I tried to investigate the attack . There are no records . The case was closed and now they 've ` misplaced ' the file . David 's lacerations were cleaned and dressed when he arrived here and yet supposedly no doctor examined him before I did . The Goodman oy is already in the ground so he 's no good to us . So I went to the pub in East Proctor where I was convinced of two things .
ALEX: Yes .
DR. HIRSCH: They were lying . There were no witnesses , no escaped lunatic . The whole community is hiding the truth of what actually happened up there .
ALEX: And what else ?
DR. HIRSCH: I think the village of East Proctor is hiding some dark and terrible secret . I 'm convinced that , like David , they believe in this werewolf . Alex is flabbergasted .
ALEX: No . He knows no one in London , besides me . I should n't have left him alone . Suddenly .
DR. HIRSCH: David has suffered a severe trauma . I myself witnessed some form of mass neurosis in East Proctor . If all the villagers believe that Jack Goodman was killed by a werewolf , why should n't David ? And then it follows that if he survived an attack by a werewolf , would n't he himself ecome a werewolf the next full moon ?
ALEX: Dr. Hirsch ?
DR. HIRSCH: Oh , I do n't mean running about on all fours and howling at the moon . But in such a deranged state he could harm himself , or perhaps others .
ALEX: What shall we do ?
DR. HIRSCH: Let 's call the police and see if they can help us find ou wandering boy .
DERELICT #1: Old Winston smells something .
DERELICT #2: Who 's there ? The dog begins to whine .
DERELICT #3: Brave dog that .
DERELICT #1: Here - who 's there ?
DERELICT #2: That 's not Winston .
DERELICT #3: Look there .
DERELICT #1: Mother Mary of God .
PASSENGER: Hello ?
PASSENGER: Is there someone there ?
DAVID: Wake me up , Alex .
ALEX: Hello ? No , Dr. Hirsch , he has n't come back yet . Yes , I will , doctor , but I just feel so helpless sitting here doing nothing . Thank you , yes , goodbye .
DAVID: Hello .
DAVID: Excuse me , wo n't you ? He returns to the bushes .
LITTLE BOY: I do n't know who you are .
DAVID: Thank you .
MOTHER: Yes , love ?
LITTLE BOY: A naked , American man stole my alloons .
MOTHER: What ?
LITTLE BOY: A naked , American man the famous balloon thief .
DR. HIRSCH: I 'll have one of those , too .
DAVID: A lot of weather we 've been having lately . The man studies David carefully .
ALEX: David ! Where on earth have you been ! ? !
DAVID: I 'm freezing .
ALEX: The zoo ?
DAVID: Waking up at the zoo , that 's not so insane . Having no clothes on ? That 's insane . What did I do last night , Alex ?
ALEX: Do n't you remember ?
DAVID: I said goodbye to you . I was locked out of the flat . I climbed the wall and came in through the bathroom window . I started to read and then I was naked at the zoo ! I guess I am out of my fucking mind .
ALEX: I worried about you . We did n't know where you were .
DR. HIRSCH: Alex , have you heard anything ?
ALEX: He 's here .
DR. HIRSCH: Is he all right ? Why did n't you call me ? Where was he ?
ALEX: He does n't remember . He woke up at the zoo .
DR. HIRSCH: The zoo ? Is he rational ?
ALEX: Yes , he is . He 's very excited and confused , but he 's not crazy , if that 's what you mean .
DR. HIRSCH: Have you read the papers today ? Have you listened to the radio or television ?
ALEX: No , why ?
DR. HIRSCH: Is David acting strangely ?
ALEX: No , not really . Dr. Hirsch considers .
DR. HIRSCH: Could you get here without any trouble ?
ALEX: Yes , I should think so .
DR. HIRSCH: Right . Now listen carefully . I want you to bring David here . I want him in my care . I 'll notify the police that we 've found him . It is imperative that you bring him straight to the hospital . Do you understand ?
ALEX: Yes , Doctor .
DR. HIRSCH: You 're certain he 's lucid ? You wo n't need any help ?
ALEX: He 's fine . We 'll come right over .
DR. HIRSCH: Shall I send a car ?
ALEX: No , a cab will be faster .
DR. HIRSCH: I expect you shortly .
ALEX: The next corner we can get a cab .
DAVID: I should be committed .
ALEX: Dr. Hirsch will know what to do .
DAVID: I do n't know why I feel so good . I have n't felt this good in a long time . Alex is signaling for a taxi .
ALEX: Get in .
DRIVER: Right . As they drive .
ALEX: I beg your pardon ?
DRIVER: The murders .
DAVID: What murders ?
DRIVER: Last night . Have n't you heard ? Six people in different parts of the city mutilated . A real maniac this one .
DAVID: Pull over .
ALEX: But .
DAVID: Pull over .
ALEX: David , wait !
DAVID: Six people mutilated ? It had to be me , Alex .
ALEX: David , stop ! He turns and faces her .
DAVID: I am going to the cops . There 's a full moon tonight . Jack was right . I .
ALEX: Jack is dead !
DAVID: Jack is dead . Look , six people have been killed . I 'm going to the police .
ALEX: David , please be rational . Let 's go to Dr. Hirsch .
DAVID: Rational ! ? ! I 'm a fucking werewolf , for Christ 's sake ! He strides up to a Bobbie on the corner .
BOBBIE: You did , did you ? Alex runs up .
ALEX: He 's playing a stupid joke , sir .
DAVID: What ?
ALEX: We had an argument . He 's eing silly .
DAVID: I swear , I do n't know this girl .
BOBBIE: All right , you two , move along .
DAVID: Hey , you asshole ! I want you to arrest me !
BOBBIE: There 's no call for that kind of language .
DAVID: Queen Elizabeth is a man ! Prince Charles is a faggot ! Winston Churchill was full of shit !
BOBBIE: Now see here young man .
DAVID: Shakespeare was French ! The Queen Mother sucks cocks in hell ! Shit ! Fuck ! Piss !
BOBBIE: That 's quite enough !
ALEX: David , please !
DAVID: Who is this girl ?
BOBBIE: You 're going to have to stop this disturbance or I shall arrest you .
DAVID: That 's what I want you to do , you moron !
ALEX: Sir , he 's very upset . His friend was killed and .
DAVID: Will you shut up ! ? ! !
BOBBIE: That 's enough ! Now go about your business .
ALEX: Yes , David , let 's go .
DAVID: You 're not going to arrest me ? David approaches one of the ONLOOKERS .
ONLOOKER: Well , I 'm not sure . How does he know this is n't a prank ?
DAVID: A prank ?
ALEX: David . The Bobbie has lost all patience .
BOBBIE: I 've no time for this foolishness . Nothing to look at . Move along .
DAVID: Hopeless . It 's hopeless .
ALEX: David , let 's go now . David turns in a rage .
DAVID: Leave me alone , dammit ! You people are crazy ! I 've got to get away from here ! I 've got to do something !
ALEX: David , do n't lose control .
DAVID: Control ! ? ! What control ! ? ! Get away from me ! He begins to cry .
ALEX: David , wait !
LT. VILLIERS: The forensic lads seem to feel that some sort of animal was involved , that 's true , but I hardly think .
DR. HIRSCH: Regardless of what you think , Lieutenant , the fact remains that David is missing and that we must find him . SGT . McMANUS Before nightfall .
LT. VILLIERS: Gentlemen , please . We shall find Mr. Kessler as quickly as we 're able .
ALEX: He tried to have himself arrested . He .
LT. VILLIERS: Getting arrested is n't all that difficult , Miss Price .
ALEX: He wants help . He .
DR. HIRSCH: What can we do to assist you ?
LT. VILLIERS: Stay here . If we need you , we 'll know where to reach you . He and Sgt . McManus pause by the door .
ALEX: What shall we do ?
DR. HIRSCH: Tea would be nice .
DAVID: Yes , operator . I 'd like to call the United States and everse the charges . David Kessler for anyone . Yes , I 'll wait . Hello ? Yes , area code 315/472-3402 . Thank you . Hello ? Rachel ? Just say yes , you 'll accept the charges . Just say yes , Rachel . Is Mom or Dad home ? Where are they ? Where 's Max ? You 're all alone ? Mom and Dad would n't leave me alone when I was ten . No , not ten and a half either . I 'm still in London . I 'm all etter . Look , would you tell Mom and Dad that I love them ? I do n't care , Rachel , just do it for me . Okay ? Good . And , Rachel , do n't fight with Max . Well , try . Look , kid , please do n't forget to tell Mom and Dad I love them . I love Max and you , too . Well , I do . No , I 'm not being weird , you little creep . You promise ? Okay . Be a good girl . I love you . Bye .
TICKET LADY: Two and a half quid , please .
DAVID: Will you take a traveler 's check ?
TICKET LADY: No , sorry . David signs a $ 100 check and hands it to her .
DAVID: Keep the change .
TICKET LADY: Well , thank you , sir ! She gives him a ticket . David goes in .
DAVID: Hi , Jack .
JACK: Hi , David . They sit for a while watching the screen .
DAVID: What can I say , Jack ?
JACK: You do n't have to say anything .
DAVID: Are n't you going to say , ` I told you so ' ?
JACK: If I was still alive , I probably would .
DAVID: You look awful .
JACK: Thank you .
DAVID: I did n't mean it . I do n't know what I 'm saying . I 'm not even sure it was me who killed those people . I do n't emember doing it .
JACK: What about the zoo ?
DAVID: Well , even if I 'm not the wolfman , I am crazy enough to do something like that . I mean , here I sit in Leiceste Square talking to a corpse . I 'm glad to see you , Jack .
JACK: I want you to meet some people .
DAVID: Hello .
JACK: Gerald is the man you murdered in the subway . We thought it est you did n't see him as he 's a fresh kill and still pretty messy .
BRINGSLY: Yes , I do look most unpleasant .
DAVID: Why are you doing this to me , Jack ?
BRINGSLY: This is n't Mr. Goodman 's idea . He is your good friend , whereas I am a victim of you carnivorous lunar activities .
DAVID: Mr. Bringsly , I 'm sorry . I have absolutely no idea what to say to you .
BRINGSLY: You 've left my wife a widow and my children fatherless . And I understand that I am to walk the earth one of the living dead until the wolf 's loodline is severed and the curse lifted .
JACK: David , this is Harry Berman and his fiancee Judith Browns .
DERELICT #2: Ca n't say we 're pleased to meet you , Mr. Kessler .
DAVID: What shall I do ?
JACK: Suicide .
HARRY: You must take your own life !
DAVID: That 's easy for you to say - you 're already dead .
BRINGSLY: No , David . Harry and I and everyone you murder are not dead . The undead .
DAVID: Why are you doing this to me ?
JACK: Because this must be stopped .
DAVID: How shall I do it ?
JUDITH: Sleeping pills ?
DERELICT #1: Not sure enough .
DAVID: I could hang myself .
JACK: If you did it wrong , it would e painful . You 'd choke to death .
DERELICT #3: So what ? Let ` im choke .
JACK: Do you mind ? The man 's a friend of mine .
DERELICT #3: Well he ai n't no friend of mine .
BRINGSLY: Gentlemen , please .
HARRY: A gun .
DERELICT #1: I know where he can get a gun .
DAVID: Do n't I need a silver bullet or something ?
JACK: Be serious , would you ? David puts his head in his hands .
DAVID: Madness . I 've gone totally mad .
HARRY: A gun is good .
JUDITH: You just put the gun to you forehead and pull the trigger .
BRINGSLY: If you put it in your mouth , then you 'd be sure not to miss .
DAVID: Thank you , you 're all so thoughtful .
TICKET TAKER: I 'll check on the house . He goes inside the theater .
TICKET LADY: It 's horrible , horrible ! There 's a beast ! A mad dog ! It 's killing people in there !
COP #1: For God 's sake , Tom , there 's a monster in there !
COP #2: Keep moving ! Will you people get out of the way !
DR. HIRSCH: Nurse Hobbs said there 's a disturbance in Leiceste Square involving some sort of mad dog .
ALEX: David ?
DR. HIRSCH: I doubt it . But it 's something to do .
LT. VILLIERS: What the hell is going on here ?
COP: It 's some kind of animal , sir . We .
ALEX: David ! It 's David !
COP: Stand clear , miss !
ALEX: I must get through !
DR. HIRSCH: Alex ! Alex walks towards the dark end of the alley .
ALEX: David ? Is it you ? Is it true , David ?
OFFICER: Fire !
INGRID: What are you looking for ? Her Swedish accent is sing-song .
JACK: Nothing . His anxiety is evident . INGRID laughs out loud .
INGRID: There are no wolves in the woods so close to the city . JACK smiles .
JACK: A hunter .
INGRID: He 's not dressed like a hunter . Why is he alone ? Hunters always go in pairs . For safety .
JACK: Go for help . Call the police .
LARRY: Jack . What brings you to Rome ?
JACK: I closed the Stockholm account .
LARRY: There 's a bar across the street the L'Aquila . Freshen up . Sit tight . Give me two hours .
JACK: Guess so .
LARRY: Since when ?
JACK: Since now .
WAITER: Cafe ?
LARRY: Due . The WAITER disappears . A beat . LARRY puts an ENVELOPE on the table .
JACK: So .
LARRY: So . You find a hole- somewhere nearby- and you crawl into it and you stay put until I say it 's safe to come out .
JACK: Buon giorno .
FATHER BENEDETTO: You are American .
JACK: Si .
FATHER BENEDETTO: You speak Italian ?
JACK: Poco .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Va bene ! You stay at Pensione Arbruzzo .
JACK: Not for much longer .
FATHER BENEDETTO: On vacation ?
JACK: Working vacation .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Lavoro ? Che genere de lavoro ?
JACK: Photographer .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Va bene . Che genere de fotografia ?
JACK: Pictures of the region . Architecture , landscapes
FATHER BENEDETTO: People ?
JACK: No people . Sights and landmarks . For guidebooks , magazines
FATHER BENEDETTO: Ah ! Magazine ! Which magazine ? JACK shows no discomfort .
JACK: Actually it 's a syndicate . Lots of different publications . Um Casa editrice .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Va bene . So you must share a glass of wine with me . Questa sera . This evening . A beat . JACK is slightly thrown .
JACK: You 're very kind , but I
FATHER BENEDETTO: Certo . You want to know the truth about Abruzzo ? A priest sees everything .
JACK: Did I forget to mention my electromagnetic hypersensitivity ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: Que siamo ! The quality of the andy is good , the liquor is smooth and the glass warmed by the sun .
JACK: No . FATHER BENEDETTO looks horrified .
FATHER BENEDETTO: You come to Italy to make a guide ook and you do n't care about history ?
JACK: I take pictures , father . A beat .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Of course . You are American . You think you can escape history . You live for the present .
JACK: I try to , father .
OLD WOMAN: Quale ? Pecorino , parmigiano ?
JACK: Questo .
WOMAN: Grazie .
JACK: Prego . You 're welcome .
WOMAN: You 're American .
JACK: `` Amidst gathering clouds '' .
WOMAN: You 're assuming I 'm English o you 'd never have mentioned the weather . In fact I 'm Belgian but I went to boarding school in England . And am quite happy to converse on all subjects meteorological .
WAITER: Buon giorno . Desidera ? He 's addressing the WOMAN .
WOMAN: Una spremute di limone . Per favore . Her Italian accent is perfect .
WAITER: Signore ?
JACK: Una gelata alla fragola . Pe favore . The final fail safe . Now they can introduce themselves
WOMAN: Mathilde .
MATHILDE: It 's hot . My car has no ai conditioning . I asked for it , ut She trails off .
JACK: What car did they give you ?
MATHILDE: One fifty to one seven five meters .
JACK: Time ?
MATHILDE: Five seconds . Seven at the most .
JACK: Targets ?
MATHILDE: One .
JACK: Fire rate ?
MATHILDE: Rapid .
JACK: Magazine capacity ?
MATHILDE: Large . Preferably 9mm Parabellum .
L'AMERICANO: How compact ?
MATHILDE: As compact as possible . JACK clears his throat .
JACK: You want a submachine gun to fit in a lady 's purse ?
MATHILDE: A small vanity case would be permissible .
JACK: A small briefcase would be possible . A beat .
MATHILDE: Not necessary .
JACK: Noise ?
MATHILDE: Silencer .
JACK: No such thing . You 'll have to make do with a suppressor like everyone else . It 'll dampen the decibels , dislocate the sound source and educe muzzle flash . I ca n't make you silent but I can make you invisible as the Finnish phrase goes , but only as long as you 're prepared to lose some range . JACK scans the crowd .
MATHILDE: Excuse me ?
JACK: By the clothes stall . Light blue shirt , open at the neck , expensive uff suede shoes . Is he with you ? The YOUNG MAN has disappeared into the crowd .
MATHILDE: I did n't see him . In any case , I 'm alone . A pause . JACK 's jaw muscles grind .
JACK: You want a weapon with the firing capacity of a submachine gun and the range of a rifle .
MATHILDE: Can you do it ? A beat .
JACK: Give me a month . To trial . Then a week for final adjustments .
POSTMASTER: Nome ? A beat .
JACK: Clarke .
POSTMASTER: Clarky ?
JACK: Clarke . Una pacchetto .
POSTMASTER: Pacchetto !
JACK: Grazie .
POSTMASTER: Identificazione .
ITALIAN GIRL: Amore ? She reaches up to touch JACK as we cut to
JACK: Your source in Rome .
FATHER BENEDETTO: All the sheep in my flock are dea to me , but some are dearer than most . Especially those that have strayed from the fold .
JACK: Sinful . FATHER BENEDETTO shrugs .
FATHER BENEDETTO: The Holy Father eats better than this .
JACK: Have you ever wanted to be anything other than a priest ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: Have you ever wanted to be anything other than a come se dice in Inglese ?
JACK: Photographer ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: Photographer .
JACK: I do what I 'm good at .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I 'm sure you have other talents . You have the hands of a craftsman , not an artist . You are good with machines . Yet you told me just the opposite when we first met .
JACK: No .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Perhaps you are rich already ?
JACK: I 'm not a young man . I have my savings .
FATHER BENEDETTO: My meagre income is subject to the vagaries of the stock market and with church attendance declining there 's less and less money in the offertory . But if a man has God in his vaults He looks searchingly at JACK .
JACK: I do n't think God is interested in me . Father .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I know better than to try to make a convert over pheasant and Trebbiano . JACK is silent . The two men continue eating . Then casually
JACK: What are the snakes for , father ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: `` The grave soul keeps its own secrets , and takes its own punishment in silence . ''
JACK: Sono un amico di Padre Benedetto . Suspicion gives way suddenly to warmth
FABIO: L'Americano ? JACK smiles politely .
JACK: Buon giorno .
FABIO: You need models . For you photographs ? Italian girls ? He winks at JACK . He 's being friendly .
JACK: My publisher would n't stretch to a four by four and the park trails are playing havoc with my chassis .
FABIO: Want me to take a look ?
JACK: Not really . I just need something to work on a ruptured driveshaft .
FABIO: You 're a mechanic ?
JACK: Just a hobby . I tinker .
FABIO: Help yourself . My garage is your garage .
JACK: I appreciate that .
FABIO: Si ! Si ! Va bene !
JACK: Quant ' e ?
FABIO: Niente !
JACK: Ciao . Grazie .
FABIO: Ciao , Americano !
JACK: E Clara qui ?
SECOND GIRL: Non e stasera qui . She loops her arm through JACK 's .
JACK: Forse un altro tempo .
MATHILDE: Mr. Clarke . How good to see you again .
JACK: The Carabinieri around here like oadblocks . It 's cover . She nods . They get into the car .
MATHILDE: You picked a beautiful spot . She takes off her shades . Her once hazel eyes are now GREY-BLUE .
JACK: This attracts less attention .
MATHILDE: Is it far ?
JACK: Fifty minutes .
MATHILDE: Up there ? JACK nods .
JACK: I 'll wake you before the turn-off .
MATHILDE: Are we nearly there ?
JACK: The turn-off 's up ahead .
MATHILDE: I told you I work alone .
JACK: Just a precaution .
MATHILDE: Are those houses occupied ?
JACK: Derelict . I checked three days ago .
MATHILDE: We should check again .
JACK: I 'll check alone . There are adders the mountains . And vipers . You shoes .
MATHILDE: I 'll be careful .
JACK: Yes .
MATHILDE: It 's beautiful here .
JACK: You 'd be out of a job .
MATHILDE: You do n't like the peace ?
JACK: It 's hard to like something you know nothing about .
MATHILDE: Rounds ?
JACK: I 've made up two sorts . He reaches into the PICNIC HAMPER .
MATHILDE: I should like a hundred of each . It 's an order her voice is emotionless .
JACK: Not a problem .
MATHILDE: Mercury will do very nicely .
JACK: Watch out for vipers .
MATHILDE: Muzzle velocity ?
JACK: At least three hundred and sixty miles per hour . That 's including twenty off the top for the sound suppression .
MATHILDE: Socimi ?
JACK: Eight-two-one .
MATHILDE: I 've not had one before .
JACK: You 'll find it easy . I 've re- alanced it for the longer barrel . The fulcrum is two centimetres forward of the grip now . Which wo n't matter if you 're firing- and I 'm guessing you are- from a fixed position . No answer .
MATHILDE: You 've done a good job , Mr. Clarke . Thank you . Thank you very much .
JACK: Good shot .
MATHILDE: Go to the stones and fire near me . He 's taken aback .
JACK: You 'll upset the balance .
MATHILDE: I 'm prepared to accept that .
JACK: Then I 'm happy to oblige .
MATHILDE: What about the a case ?
JACK: A briefcase . Samsonite . Standard pattern in black with combination locks . Is there a number you 'd prefer ? She thinks .
MATHILDE: Eight-two-one .
JACK: Eight-two-one .
MATHILDE: What do you want done with these ?
JACK: Throw them in the lake .
MATHILDE: How thoughtful . She picks up a bottle of wine .
JACK: Aspirinio . Like Mosacata but frizzante . Deftly he uncorks a bottle . And pours it into the grass .
MATHILDE: You chilled the wine . I thought
JACK: It had to be chilled . They 're Italian cops .
MATHILDE: You think of everything .
JACK: I 'm paid to . Do n't move . She freezes . JACK points slowly . On her tanned forearm is a BUTTERFLY .
MATHILDE: Wow . They both stare at the insect , transfixed .
JACK: Parnassius apollo . It 's endangered .
MATHILDE: You like coming here .
JACK: It serves its purpose .
MATHILDE: You 've never taken a woman here efore ? JACK is momentarily taken aback .
JACK: No . The BUTTERFLY flits away .
MATHILDE: Perhaps you do not have a woman in your life . It is not easy for us to keep relationships . Not in ou world .
JACK: I have an acquaintance . A beat . She waits for him to say more . He does n't .
MATHILDE: Friendships are transitory . It is Suddenly , there 's movement in the bushes .
JACK: Wild boar .
MATHILDE: I wish you had n't brought me here . Again a real sadness . JACK glances at her .
JACK: I 'm much older than you . By the time you 've retired I 'll be dead .
MATHILDE: We will meet as before ? JACK nods .
BARMAN: Sergio Leone . Italiano . JACK turns and looks .
JACK: Hokey .
CLARA: Morboso ? She looks at him .
JACK: Morboso ?
CLARA: Morboso is like when you ca n't stop thinking about something . He stares back at her wordless .
JACK: You need n't act .
CLARA: Act ?
JACK: You might have to act with you other clients but you do n't have to pretend anything at all with me . She lights herself a cigarette .
CLARA: Maybe I pretend very well . I got more tip than the other girls usually get . He walks to the door . Pauses .
JACK: I do n't sleep with the other girls . And leaves .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I 've been looking for you .
JACK: Here ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: He came to the church this afternoon .
JACK: What did he want ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: To know where you live . He said he was a friend from Switzerland .
JACK: Switzerland ? JACK thinks .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Of course I do not tell him . How do I know him ? He is maybe the police . Certainly he is no friend . A friend would know your pensione . Besides FATHER BENEDETTO leans close and whispers
JACK: Shoulder holster .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Si . JACK glances up and down the aisle .
JACK: You 're a true friend , father .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I am a priest . JACK turns to go .
BARMAN: Someone left this fo `` L'Americano '' . This afternoon . JACK looks at the ENVELOPE .
JACK: Grazie .
CLARA: Buon giorno !
JACK: Buon giorno .
CLARA: You are hurt ?
JACK: I 'm fine .
CLARA: What 's wrong with you ?
JACK: It 's nothing really . Just a broken ib . Un costollo rotta ?
CLARA: Stronzo ! Let me help you !
JACK: I came off my bike .
CLARA: But you have to go to the hospital !
JACK: No , no , no . I have pain killers . I just need a strong cup of coffee .
CLARA: I know a place which make the strongest coffee in L'Aquila . Her limpid brown eyes twinkle .
JACK: Why d'you call me that ? A beat .
CLARA: You have a tattoo . On your back . Of course . He relaxes . But not completely .
JACK: How did he know I was here , Larry ?
CLARA: My friend Anna . This is my friend Signor Farfalla . CLARA 's eyes twinkle mischievously .
JACK: How do you do ?
ANNA: I am very well thank you .
JACK: Will you take a coffee with me ?
CLARA: That would be very good . He indicates two empty chairs .
JACK: Prego .
CLARA: Anna is learning English .
JACK: Have you been to England ? ANNA seems momentarily confused .
ANNA: But you are She looks at CLARA .
JACK: I am . JACK glances at CLARA . How much has she told her friend ?
ANNA: Ah . I have not been to England only to France . But I would love to go to America . The WAITER comes over .
JACK: Due cappuccini e un cafe corretto .
CLARA: Anna is like all Italians . She thinks America is like in the movies . Little Italy , `` West Side Story '' , `` Chicago '' .
JACK: If not with gold , than at least not with enough medieval cobbles to loosen every-self tapping screw in a Fiat .
ANNA: Ah , yes ! I live in Via dell ' Argilla . Nearby to Clara .
CLARA: Perhaps we will have a drink together soon ? I am free
JACK: Great . I 'll see you then .
CLARA: But Eduardo Where would you like to meet ?
JACK: How about our usual place ?
CLARA: Our usual place ? She feigns complete perplexity .
JACK: You 've forgotten ?
CLARA: Remind me .
JACK: Maybe we should try something different .
CLARA: Where would you like to try , Eduardo ?
JACK: Locanda Grapelli ?
CLARA: Locanda Grapelli ! Si ! She looks genuinely delighted .
ANNA: This is the best food in the area .
JACK: Good .
CLARA: Seven ?
JACK: Seven .
CLARA: Locanda Grapelli .
JACK: Locanda Grapelli .
CLARA: You 'll be there ?
JACK: I 'll be there .
CLARA: See you then , Eduardo .
JACK: See you then , Clara . It was a delight to meet you Anna . Arrivederci .
ANNA: Arrivederci , Signor Farfalla .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Buon giorno !
JACK: What makes you think I 'm leaving ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: You told me as much when we first met . Besides , those who seek fo peace seldom find it . They 're always moving on , looking elsewhere . And they are usually sinners .
JACK: All men are sinners .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Some are greater sinners than others . And those who seek peace have much sinning in their history .
JACK: I do n't seek peace . I never have .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Until now .
JACK: Perhaps . Perhaps I 'll stay . The valley . The villages . The mountains .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Forgive me . This is the priest in me speaking . And the friend . But you have done much sinning , Signo Clarke . You still do .
JACK: I see a whore . She 's young enough to be my daughter .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I do not refer to the sins of carnality . But to the deadly sins
JACK: Are n't all sins equal ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: We are not discussing theology , my friend , but you . You like this town , this valley .
FATHER BENEDETTO: You want to speak but you dare not . You know no one sufficiently well to share your history with them . You know I am trustworthy yet still you are cautious .
JACK: Who says ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: It 's an expression , no ?
JACK: Everyone 's on the run from something .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Some men watch some of the shadows . You watch them all .
JACK: I 've done nothing I did n't have good cause to do .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Do you wish to tell me ?
JACK: For what reason ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: For your own sake . Perhaps I can pray for you ? A change of pace .
JACK: I make things . Artifacts .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Counterfeit money ?
JACK: Why do you say that ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: You work in metal . You are given some steel by Fabio , the ca doctor .
JACK: You know a lot about me .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I know only what you do in the town . People talk to me . I am thei priest and they trust me .
JACK: And I should too ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: Of course . They stare at one another . JACK wants to confess . He does not know why .
JACK: Fabio . The ` car doctor ' . Was he conceived here father ? FATHER BENEDETTO is motionless .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Why do you ask me that ?
JACK: He looks like you . Even more than he does in the photos you keep of each other . Where was he conceived , father ? Under one of these trees ? At night ? Like all the othe astards ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: I do not remember , Signor . It was twenty-five years ago .
JACK: Expecting me to reciprocate ?
FATHER BENEDETTO: Perhaps . For your own good . You can not doubt the existence of Hell . You live in it . It is a place without love . As for me , I go about my daily duties because the town equires it of me . Some know what you know . Perhaps I have no right to wear these robes . But I do have a heart full of a father 's love . Something close to His heart ! And for that I am both grateful and happy . On JACK .
CLARA: I did not think you would come .
JACK: I was n't sure you meant me to .
CLARA: Certo . A WAITER approaches .
WAITER: Per due ?
CLARA: Si .
WAITER: Menu in Inglese ? A beat .
JACK: No , grazie .
WAITER: Tedesco ? Olandese ?
CLARA: He speaks Italian . So do I . Listen
WAITER: Gasata ?
CLARA: Non gasata .
JACK: Small towns .
CLARA: Parasini . From Calabria . It is good , you will agree ?
JACK: It is . Very good .
CLARA: Can I ask you something , Eduardo ?
JACK: Sure .
CLARA: You are married ?
JACK: No . A beat .
CLARA: I was sure this was your secret .
JACK: What makes you think I have a secret ? I 'm an ordinary man . I cough . I fart . I earn a living . JACK observes a GYPSY selling roses .
CLARA: I do not think you are an ordinary man . I think you are a good man . But you have a secret .
JACK: Why spoil the illusion ? She looks at him and smiles .
CLARA: As long as we know it is an illusion . Her smile is only a little bit sad . Still , JACK does n't know what to say .
WAITER: Buona sera . Desidera ?
CLARA: Woooow !
JACK: How is it ?
CLARA: Bitchin ' .
JACK: Bitchin ' ?
CLARA: It's- come se dice- ` slang ' , no ? Eco .
JACK: No thanks .
CLARA: Come on , Eduardo ! He hesitates . He eats .
JACK: I will agree .
CLARA: My English is nice !
JACK: It 's bitchin ' .
CLARA: You know how to swear in Italian ?
JACK: Sure . Bastardo . Imbecile .
CLARA: `` Imbecile ? '' Eduardo ! Try Mangia merde e morte tuo cazzo un ufolo .
JACK: Eat shit and die , pimple dick ? CLARA hiccups .
CLARA: Perdone !
JACK: I guess I 've led a sheltered life . Of sorts .
CLARA: Shell-tered ?
JACK: Too much work .
CLARA: Too much work .
JACK: For what ?
CLARA: For this I do . My job .
JACK: Never apologise .
CLARA: Except this job is full of testa di cazzo .
JACK: Mine too .
CLARA: Lei ?
JACK: Si .
CLARA: But you are too young to pensione ?
JACK: Retire .
CLARA: Si .
JACK: Liar .
CLARA: No !
JACK: Would you be flattering me if I was n't a client ? He 's put CLARA on the spot .
CLARA: This say yes . She points at her head .
JACK: Give it away . She looks at him .
CLARA: Stronzo ! I buy you a present ! She fishes about in her handbag and produces a SILVER BOX .
JACK: Grazie . An embarrassed beat . CLARA kisses him .
CLARA: Prego . Eduardo . A pause .
JACK: Where ?
LARRY: Our pretty young Belgian client and her associates think someone on your long list of enemies might have put a tail on you .
JACK: They do n't .
LARRY: Jack ? Jack ? I 'm sorry .
CLARA: Ciao , Eduardo !
JACK: Put them in the back . We 've got a way to go . She puts the plastic bag in the trunk . Inside the trunk is the PICNIC HAMPER .
CLARA: Where we go ?
JACK: Swimming .
CLARA: How far do we go ? To Fanale ?
JACK: An hour . And we 're not going to the sea , we 're going to the lakes . In the mountains .
CLARA: For a come se dice you have in the back
JACK: A picnic .
CLARA: A pick-nick ! We are going for a pick-nick . Just the two of us . She looks at him .
JACK: It is .
CLARA: Is it more far ?
JACK: Ten kilometres . Another twenty minutes .
CLARA: Twelve kilometres ? In twenty minutes ?
JACK: We 're going off the beaten track . She looks confused .
CLARA: You will speak Italian . One day , I will teach you .
JACK: You shall see .
CLARA: I think it is good we should stay close to the road .
JACK: There 's no need to worry . I 've been here before several times . Taking photographs .
CLARA: No ! She laughs tensely .
JACK: This is a Citroen !
CLARA: You sure ?
JACK: Of course . I do n't want to walk ack to town any more than you do .
CLARA: I think you are crazy . This will go to nowhere .
JACK: I assure you it does .
CLARA: Now there is no road ! JACK stops the car and turns the engines off . Sudden silence . CLARA lets go of the seat .
JACK: No . Not quite . We go anothe hundred metres , through the wood . But from here we just roll forward . No motor . No sound . And you 'll see a wonder . She grips the seat again .
CLARA: No one comes here ?
JACK: No .
CLARA: Just you .
JACK: Yes .
CLARA: Well ?
JACK: There are vipers ! Vipera ! Marasso !
CLARA: Maybe ! But I am lucky !
JACK: If we stay here for a year , they 'll devour us .
CLARA: It is said that if these fishes ite at two hands holding , then love is good for the people .
JACK: Maybe we should
CLARA: Do you make love in the water ?
JACK: I have n't .
CLARA: What 's wrong ?
JACK: Let 's eat .
CLARA: Eduardo . JACK looks at her .
JACK: Is Clara yours ?
CLARA: Si . Yes . She looks at him . Waiting for his reply .
JACK: Edward is my real name .
CLARA: Ed-ward . She does n't believe him .
JACK: Quite sure . About this he 's telling the truth . CLARA reaches for the RED PURSE .
CLARA: Will you put this on my back ? She proffers him the SUNTAN LOTION .
JACK: Nothing .
CLARA: Grazie , Eduardo .
JACK: I still do n't understand . What 's the point of a gun if it 's not loaded ?
CLARA: One of the girls borrow it to me after the second hooker in Chieti is murdered . With some of the clients it make me feel safe . I do n't tell the police , of course , ut Madonna , Eduardo . How they do to these two women ! A police agente from Rome show me photographs . They show photographs to everyone in Via Lampedusa . CLARA shivers with disgust .
JACK: Does the gun make you feel safe with me ?
CLARA: You are not a client .
JACK: Then why 's it in your purse ? CLARA looks unhappy .
CLARA: I have to work tonight , amore . Silence . JACK looks away .
CLARA: What will you do ?
JACK: I guess I 'll go to work too .
CLARA: And after that ? Tomorrow and the next day .
JACK: I ca n't stay here forever .
CLARA: I want always to stay here .
JACK: It 's time to go home .
CLARA: Let me come to your home .
JACK: I ca n't , Clara . One day
CLARA: Stay forever here .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Ciao Fabio , come stai ?
IL POSTINO: Bene grazie , Padre .
FATHER BENEDETTO: Dear Father Benedetto . I promised myself that I would write to you- as your friend- to say goodbye
MATHILDE: Hello . I see you have brought it in from the car with you .
JACK: All there , as agreed .
MATHILDE: What 's in the paper bag ?
JACK: Sweets . For your journey .
MATHILDE: That is most thoughtful of you .
JACK: I suppose I 'll read about this in the Times or the International Herald Tribune . Or Il Maessagiero . For a moment she is pensive .
MATHILDE: Yes , I expect so .
JACK: You never know . She stops beside the FORD . JACK still has his hands on the Walther .
MATHILDE: OK ?
JACK: Sure . You ?
MATHILDE: Everything 's just fine . She definitely sounds American now . Her RIGHT HAND slips into her pocket .
JACK: How do you know I 'm retiring ?
MATHILDE: Have you taken your girl up to the meadow yet ?
JACK: CLARA !
LARRY: Not only did you not kill him , you gave him my fucking money ?
MATHILDE: What else could I do ? There were kids everywhere . Besides he 's suspicious .
LARRY: He 's paranoid . That 's why I 'm paying you the GDP of a small country to get close to him . You could have got him in the sack . You should have got him in the ca park . Now you 're going to have to take him out long range !
MATHILDE: I prefer it that way . She is a trained assassin . She respects JACK .
LARRY: Let 's hope his workmanship is up to scratch .
MATHILDE: He made short work of the last guy you hired .
LARRY: Never mind Larson . He did n't stand a chance , not against someone as paranoid as Jack . The Swede was only there to take Jack 's heat off you . So do n't fuck this up again . He grabs a TIN of fruit sweets .
JACK: When can I see you ?
CLARA: I have to work tonight .
JACK: If I asked you would you come away with me ?
CLARA: Come away with you ?
JACK: Why not ?
CLARA: Together ?
JACK: Together .
CLARA: Where ?
JACK: Wherever . Then when we 're through , we could come back here . For good .
CLARA: To live ?
JACK: Where else ?
CLARA: Forever ?
JACK: Forever . A pause .
CLARA: Other plans ?
CLARA: What 's happening ?
JACK: Someone got what was coming to them . He turns to her
CLARA: Eduardo , please ?
JACK: Trust me . She looks at him .
CLARA: I trust you . She wants to , but she does n't .
JACK: Clara . My name is not Eduardo .
CLARA: No ?
JACK: My name is Jack .
CLARA: Jack . She looks worried .
JACK: I promise . Take this .
CLARA: In case ?
JACK: Now go .
LARRY: You 're too old for this life , Jack . LARRY struggles for breath as he reloads . This is JACK 's chance .
JACK: What will you tell them ? A beat .
FATHER BENEDETTO: I will them that the man who wrote this letter is my friend . FATHER BENEDETTO smiles sadly .
FIGURE: Kill them . Kill them all .
MIXTER: Lisa Templeton ?
LISA: Me ! Sorry-
MIXTER: It 's quite alright . I 'm Docto Elliot Mixter . Come into my office .
LISA: I 've uh brought my resume and some references . I know I already sent a copy with my application but just in case .
MIXTER: Thank you .
LISA: Yes , I uh I 've done a lot of them .
MIXTER: Well an institution such as this one is a very different proposition .
LISA: Oh yes . Yes I know . You 'll see I 've also worked cleaning a school , so I am used to big areas .
MIXTER: Yes I 've seen that . When I say this is a different proposition I mean in terms of the sensitivity equired due to the nature of what we do here .
LISA: Oh yes , yes of course .
MIXTER: You would mainly be working night shifts at a time when patients are on lock down . But many of ou patients here have psychological disturbances so there may be situations where you have to clean up things you may not be used to cleaning up . If you know what I 'm saying .
LISA: I know what you mean , yes .
MIXTER: Would that bother you ?
LISA: It may be strange at first but I actually have some experience in
MIXTER: I see . How is your mother now ?
LISA: Well she passed away .
MIXTER: I 'm sorry to hear that . So it 's important to me that every employee here , whether they are a psychiatrist , an orderly or a cleaner , needs to fully understand what our mission statement at this hospital is .
LISA: Okay .
MIXTER: High Hopes was only built two years ago and as an institution we have only been running for just over a year now . So we 're still building our reputation . But I am very clea on what I want that reputation to e. I intend to make this institution one of the foremost centres for mental health treatment in the country . If you look into my history you 'll know that I have a stellar reputation in the field of psychiatry and I want to use that to help others . That is why I have put my own money into the creation of this institution . We are only just starting out but we have a long term ambition to be considered the best . So what I require is that every person who works at this institution , in any capacity , must e professional and sensitive to the needs of the patients . Unlike other institutions , the welfare and care of our patients comes first here .
LISA: I really admire that and I promise I would not let you down if I was given this job .
MIXTER: I 'm sure you would n't .
LISA: Oh my God , I 'm so sorry ! !
MIXTER: It 's quite alright , please sit down , I can take care of it .
LISA: Look I 'm so sorry , I really am !
MIXTER: It 's fine . We 'll be in touch .
LISA: Hello ?
LISA: Laugh it up , it 's gon na be you last chance because I 'm not going for any more job interviews ! I 'm done , I 'm always so damn nervous and I just do n't make a good first impression .
MAN: Gswno !
LISA: Yeah , I 'm here for an induction into the cleaning job .
MAN: You must be Lisa ?
LISA: Yes , that 's right .
MAN: Doctor Mixter said you would be coming . I 'm Delaney , we 'll be working together .
LISA: Oh great .
DELANEY: We work nights so today we 'll just show you around , okay ?
LISA: Okay , thank you .
DELANEY: I 'll clean this up and we 'll get to it .
LISA: Okay .
DELANEY: The most obvious task is hoovering . This is our hoover here , it 's straight forward . You 'll be surprised that although it 's powerful it 's very quiet , because we are working when everyone 's in ed so obviously we do n't want to wake them up ! It has a Telescopic suction tube and six stage filte system . So a lot more powerful than you may be used to .
LISA: Okay .
DELANEY: The mop and bucket is here , we usually use standard bleach to mix with the water so that 's straight forward . But there is this specialist stain remover that you must use if there are any stains on the floor or carpet . It needs to be sprayed and left to set for twenty minutes before scrubbing o mopping . It 's a special formula fo tea , coffee , water marks and othe yellow and brown discolourations on the carpets or floors . It 's pretty strong so wash your hands after you use it !
LISA: OKAY
DELANEY: One of the worst parts of the jo is we have to remove chewing gum from lots of surfaces . They do n't just stick it underneath the tables , it ends up everywhere !
LISA: Gross !
DELANEY: Yes ! I think a lot of the time it 's the staff doing it , not the patients ! But we have this GumCart , which is a bit complicated but it 's easier than just scraping the gum . The steam is super heated to one hundred eighty degrees and delivered at seven point zero ba pressure . It can produce a hundred and fifteen litres of superheated steam per minute .
LISA: Is it okay if I watch you use it a few times first so I know exactly what I 'm doing ? I do n't want to end up burning myself or any furniture ! Delaney smiles .
DELANEY: No problem . Now here we come to the most dangerous chemical we have . This is a concrete cleaner , very toxic stuff , so you have to wea the face mask and gloves we have here , okay ?
LISA: Okay .
DELANEY: This is for cleaning and descaling ick , stone and concrete and fo metal de-rusting . For concrete you must mix it one part to four parts water . Brush or spray it on with the equipment here then leave it five to ten minutes to set , then inse it off . But for those stubborn son-of-a-bitch marks use it neat !
LISA: Okay .
DELANEY: Do n't worry if anything seems complicated , you 'll get used to it . But you 'll mostly be mopping and hoovering in your first few weeks .
LISA: Yeah that 's fine .
DELANEY: This is Ward B , one of two wards you 'll be responsible for cleaning each evening . Essentially the main duties will be emptying the bins , hoovering the carpeted areas and mopping the hallways . The patients in here are Category B . They 're mainly people who have had nervous eakdowns and those who are catatonic . They 're harmless . Like Missus Hardesty here .
LISA: Why did you just talk to her ?
DELANEY: We 've still got to treat them like human beings . Otherwise they just ecome like furniture and we all lose our humanity . I like to think she can hear me , even if she wo n't talk to me . See you later Missus Hardesty .
LISA: Okay .
DELANEY: In the day time there are nurses who often clean up but in the night we may be called to provide fresh linen or mop up . Not the most pleasant of jobs but it happens from time to time .
LISA: Yeah I understand . Delaney and Lisa arrive at a doorway .
DELANEY: Now here we come to the most difficult part of the job .
LISA: Cleaning crap up is n't the most difficult part ? ! Delaney smiles .
DELANEY: Oh no , that 's very easy compared to what 's behind this door .
LISA: What 's behind it ?
DELANEY: This leads down to Ward X .
LISA: Sounds ominous .
DELANEY: You could say that . It 's where Category A patients are held . The criminally insane .
LISA: Really ? Doctor Mixter did n't mention that .
DELANEY: Yes , well , these patients are eyond help so they 've become athe hospital 's secret . Many of them were transferred from prisons and other institutions . Doctor Mixte probably thought he could help them . He ca n't . The staff call this place Blood Row . Delaney opens the door .
LISA: What 's that smell ?
DELANEY: It always hangs in the air . No matter how much we bleach the floo there is always that smell of death .
LISA: These patients are dangerous ?
DELANEY: Yes . But do n't worry , we never have to interact directly or anything like that . You will just be mopping the corridor and dusting .
LISA: That 's horrible .
DELANEY: The most horrible thing is that a lot of the public thought he was a hero .
LISA: What 's her deal ?
DELANEY: She was a member of a Witchcraft cult . They kidnapped six people fo a demonic ritual . Five were killed ut one got away and led police to the cult . She turned her trial into a circus , talking about lots of crazy stuff . The media enjoyed it ut she got certified insane by the court . She 's been around a few institutions since . Now she 's here .
LISA: Some strange stories here .
DELANEY: Well those are n't the strangest .
LISA: Really ?
DELANEY: This last patient is the strangest case .
LISA: Why is he down here ?
DELANEY: They first brought him in about six months ago . No one knows where he came from , he literally just turned up late one night . An orderly found him wandering the grounds . First of all he was like Missus Hardesty upstairs-catatonic . Then a few weeks later he started to respond to Doctor Mixter and the nurses through facial expressions and gestures . But soon , he got violent . Very violent . He 'd have bursts of age and beat other patients . One day he appeared to have a seizure and collapsed . A young doctor tried to take his vital signs . Patient X here throttled him so hard he crushed his larynx . It took six orderlies to restrain him . Now they wo n't even let him out for the obligatory hour a day exercise . We still do n't know who he is .
LISA: Oh God . Delaney stares at Lisa .
DELANEY: God has nothing to do with this man .
LISA: I guess not it 's just a lot to take in . I 've obviously never been around stuff like this before .
DELANEY: This is the reality of this place . We do n't deal with these people directly but we may have to clean up their mess . If you ca n't handle
LISA: I 'm not a quitter .
GIRL: I do n't know .
LISA: I do n't think you should be .
GIRL: Do you want to play with me ?
LISA: I 'd love to sweetheart , but it 's very late now . I think you bette go back to bed .
GIRL: Okay . The girl walks away .
LISA: Fuck ! !
DELANEY: Sorry , I did n't mean to startle you .
LISA: It 's okay . Lisa rubs her head .
DELANEY: Are you okay ?
LISA: Yeah , just hurt that 's all !
DELANEY: Sorry .
LISA: I 'll live .
DELANEY: Do you want to grab a coffee ?
LISA: Sure .
DELANEY: Did you change the bins in the Day Room ?
LISA: Yeah .
DELANEY: Good . I 've got a light bulb to change in Room Twelve upstairs soon . We 're making good time .
LISA: Cool . It 's funny , I never thought I 'd get this job . The interview did n't go well !
DELANEY: Doctor Mixter told me you were the only person he interviewed for the job .
LISA: Really ?
DELANEY: Yeah . I 'm sure he felt you were ight for the job and did n't need to interview anyone else .
LISA: Cool .
DELANEY: Oh yeah . I forget I have it sometimes .
LISA: What does it mean ?
DELANEY: Well it represents a lot of wrong turns in my younger years .
LISA: Like what ?
DELANEY: It 's okay . Let 's just say the past is better left there .
LISA: Fair enough .
DELANEY: So how is the first night going fo you ?
LISA: Not bad . I ran into a young girl in the hallway earlier . Sweet little girl , she was only about twelve o thirteen . I told her to go back to ed . I guess they do n't lock the kids in at night huh ? Delaney appears confused .
DELANEY: You sure it was a young girl of that age ?
LISA: Yeah definitely . She was carrying a teddy bear . She was about thirteen at the most .
DELANEY: Umm okay .
LISA: What ?
DELANEY: Well there are no children of that age here .
LISA: What ?
DELANEY: In fact , there are no children of any age in this place . I think ou youngest patient is about twenty .
LISA: You 're kidding right ?
DELANEY: No , I 'm serious .
LISA: Then who was that girl in the hallway ? Delaney contemplates for a moment .
DELANEY: You sure you saw a girl that young ?
LISA: I 'm positive .
DELANEY: I better tell the orderlies . This is no place for a little girl to e .
LISA: Did you find her ?
DELANEY: No .
HARDCASTLE: So you 're the one who saw the little girl huh ?
LISA: Yes .
HARDCASTLE: You sure you saw a little girl ?
LISA: Of course .
HARDCASTLE: Well I 've had to pull staff off other wards to search this goddamn place top to bottom . We found nothing .
LISA: That 's strange .
HARDCASTLE: A big fucking inconvenience is what it is ! Do me a favour , the next time you think you see something be absolutely sure before you go unning to Jumpsuit here ! I ai n't got time to be running around this place looking for shit that is n't there ! You understand ? ?
LISA: Yes . Hardcastle exits . Lisa looks embarrassed .
DELANEY: Do n't worry about it . Better safe than sorry .
LISA: What ?
DELANEY: Can you empty the rubbish in Docto Mixter 's office ? I 've got to check the boiler , there 's been complaints about the heating not working .
LISA: No problem . Lisa grabs a roll of bin bags from the shelf .
PEMBERTON: What the hell are you doing in here ?
LISA: Uh I was just emptying the garbage .
PEMBERTON: Funny , I do n't remember Docto Mixter keeping the garbage in the filing cabinet .
LISA: Look I it was just open and I I dunno .
PEMBERTON: Well , y'know I 'm gon na have to eport this .
LISA: Oh please do n't , I did n't see anything I just opened it . Pemberton smiles .
PEMBERTON: Well new girl , it 's hospital policy to report this kind of thing .
LISA: But I 've only just got this job and I really need it . Pemberton looks her up and down .
PEMBERTON: Perhaps we can come to some arrangement .
LISA: What do you mean ?
PEMBERTON: Well , I 'd be doing you a big favou if I kept this to myself . So perhaps you can do me a favour .
LISA: What kind of favour ?
PEMBERTON: A blow job . Lisa 's face contorts with disgust .
LISA: You 're disgusting !
PEMBERTON: Oh come on , I bet you 'd love it .
LISA: Look , you better get out of my way or I 'm going to report you fo sexual harassment .
PEMBERTON: You 've been working here for five minutes . You really think Docto Mixter is gon na believe a fucking cleaner over a medical professional ?
DELANEY: Pemberton !
PEMBERTON: She ai n't no prisoner here ! I was just talking , what 's the problem ?
DELANEY: No problem . Lisa , come with me , we 've got a job up on Ward B .
LISA: I 'm fine . It was just a little bit intimidating , y'know ?
DELANEY: Pemberton can be like that . He works nights with that other son- of-a-bitch Hardcastle . They like to throw their weight around . You 'll get used to it .
LISA: People like that should n't be in charge of patients .
DELANEY: Let 's get a coffee .
LISA: You sure love your break times ! Delaney laughs .
DELANEY: I like to pace myself ! Lisa smiles .
LISA: Missus Hardesty , you scared me ! What are you doing up at this time ? No response from the catatonic pensioner .
MRS HARDESTY: You 're going to die in here .
LISA: What did you say ? Lisa stares at her but there is no response .
PEMBERTON: Well look who it is , Miss Sexual Harassment .
LISA: Bite me . Hardcastle laughs .
PEMBERTON: What are you laughing at ?
HARDCASTLE: This one 's got a big mouth ! First ordering a search of the hospital for a little girl , now she 's usting your balls !
LISA: Look , I do n't want any trouble . I just came to tell you there 's a patient whose out of their room in Ward B .
HARDCASTLE: You wo n't get no trouble from me , I 'm a professional . Unlike this useless bag of bones .
PEMBERTON: Fuck you !
HARDCASTLE: Catch you later sweetie . Pemberton raises his middle finger .
LISA: She was right there , in that chair .
HARDCASTLE: Who ?
LISA: Missus Hardesty .
HARDCASTLE: Missus Hardesty ?
LISA: Yeah . She even spoke to me ! Hardcastle bursts out laughing .
HARDCASTLE: Missus Hardesty was here and she spoke to you ?
LISA: Yes !
HARDCASTLE: Just a second
LISA: Look I know she 's supposed to be catatonic but I swear she said something to me !
PEMBERTON: That 's not the strange thing , sweetheart .
LISA: What do you mean ?
PEMBERTON: Missus Hardesty died this morning . The blood drains from Lisa 's face .
LISA: But I could have sworn
HARDCASTLE: Listen newbie , how about you just get on with the cleaning and stay off the crack pipe . Okay , honey unny ?
LISA: Hello ?
LISA'S MOTHER: Do n't you grieve for me ?
LISA: Of course I do .
FIGURE: Kill them . Kill them all .
DELANEY: Okay , next thing is mopping the floor in Ward X .
LISA: Umm could you do that ?
DELANEY: Why ?
LISA: I dunno I just need a break .
DELANEY: Does Ward X frighten you ?
LISA: A little .
DELANEY: That 's normal , it frightens me sometimes . But I 've got to go up to a patient 's room in Ward A . Apparently they 've had a little accident . Surely you would n't prefer to clean that up ?
LISA: Well maybe not .
DELANEY: I know Ward X is a scary place . But you 'll get used to it .
LISA: I can hear them talking . It 's kinda unnerving .
DELANEY: I know , I hear that too when I 'm down there . But trust me , once you get used to it things will get easier .
SADIE: I can hear you out there .
LISA: What what do you expect me to say ?
SADIE: Perhaps you can tell me all about the summer trips to Key West with your mother ? Those were you favourite memories of your mothe were n't they ? Or perhaps you 'd prefer to tell me about when you sat at your mother 's bed side fo six months , watching on helplessly as the cancer ravaged her body and sucked the life out of her ? Lisa is horrified . She is shaking .
LISA: How how do you know all this ?
SADIE: Because your mother is speaking to me from the flames of hell !
LISA: You sick fuck ! Tears stream down Lisa 's face .
SADIE: She has a message for you Lisa . Want to hear it ?
LISA: What is it ?
SADIE: GET OUT ! ! A distraught Lisa rushes towards the exit .
DELANEY: What 's wrong Lisa ?
LISA: I 'm not going down to Ward X again , I 'm really sorry I just ca n't handle it down there !
DELANEY: Okay , just calm down okay . Tell me what happened .
LISA: They say things to me through the doors . Horrible things !
DELANEY: I know , they 've done it to me too .
LISA: But that woman Sadie , she says things she could n't possibly know about me .
DELANEY: Like what ? Lisa checks herself .
LISA: I sound crazy do n't I ? Delaney smiles .
DELANEY: No . This place just gets under you skin sometimes .
LISA: I 'm starting to wonder if I 'm losing my mind .
DELANEY: Well it 's not healthy to think too much about what those crazy son-of- a-bitches say . Believe me you do n't want them inside your head .
LISA: It 's hard to keep them out sometimes .
DELANEY: Listen , take a break from Ward X for a while . I 'll go down there fo the next week or so .
LISA: I 'm really sorry about this , I did n't think it would effect me so much .
DELANEY: Do n't worry , it gets to everyone at first . But the last thing I want is for you to dread coming to work .
LISA: Thank you . I really appreciate that . Delaney smiles .
DELANEY: No problem .
PEMBERTON: What 's with all the fucking racket Palmer ?
PALMER: Sorry to bother you Miste Pemberton . But I wondered if it would be possible to get some medical attention ?
PEMBERTON: Now how the hell did that happen ? Palmer holds up a makeshift knife .
PALMER: I believe it was this rather crude weapon that did the damage .
PEMBERTON: Jesus Christ Palmer ! Now put the weapon on the floor and back away .
PALMER: As you wish Mister Pemberton .
PEMBERTON: Do n't you fucking move ! !
PALMER: I 'm terribly sorry about this .
HARDCASTLE: Pemberton ? Pemberton , what 's taking you so long man ? ?
PALMER: Good evening gentleman . I believe we will be one short at roll call tomorrow morning .
ORDERLY #1: Do we need to put the bit in his mouth ?
ORDERLY #2: No . We 're not giving him the methohexital either .
HARDCASTLE: What the fuck are you doing ? ?
LISA: I just heard something so I I was just curious .
HARDCASTLE: What are you seeing in there ?
LISA: Oh nothing , I did n't see anything .
HARDCASTLE: You make sure it stays that way . That guy is a fucking menace and he deserves everything he gets . So you do n't talk to Mixter or anyone else about anything you 've seen in there . You understand ?
LISA: I wo n't say anything .
HARDCASTLE: Good . Now do n't you got some cleaning to do somewhere ?
LISA: Of course .
NANCY: Do n't worry about it , have a seat . A latte yeah ?
LISA: YEAH
NANCY: Good , I 've ordered it . They 'll ing it over soon .
LISA: Thanks . Lisa looks pale . Black bags under her eyes .
NANCY: God hun , you look like shit !
LISA: Oh thanks !
NANCY: Sorry , I did n't mean to be blunt ut you do . The night shifts getting to ya ?
LISA: The whole job 's getting to me . My ody clock 's all out of whack but it 's not just that . There 's something seriously wrong with that place .
NANCY: What do you mean ?
LISA: Thanks .
NANCY: Wow , you like a little coffee with your sugar ?
LISA: I figure it 'll wake me up a little .
NANCY: So what 's wrong with the place ?
LISA: A lot of things . The way they run things for starters , the orderlies are complete bastards .
NANCY: They usually are in those places .
LISA: Some of the patients are extremely violent .
NANCY: You have n't been hurt by anyone have you ?
LISA: No , nothing like that . Some of the things they say though it 's pretty frightening . The weirdest thing is Oh I dunno , maybe it 's just me . I wonder if I 'm seeing things .
NANCY: What do you mean ?
LISA: I think the place might be haunted . Either that or I 'm losing my mind .
NANCY: Well I would n't be surprised if it was haunted .
LISA: What do you mean ?
NANCY: I told my father about your new job .
LISA: Yeah ?
NANCY: Well , y'know they only built that Asylum a couple of years ago ?
LISA: Yeah .
NANCY: He says it was built on the site of One Twelve Ocean Avenue .
LISA: What 's that ?
NANCY: You never heard of it ?
LISA: No .
NANCY: It was a famous house . Or should I say infamous . Some guy shot his whole family there back in the seventies . Parents , brothers , sisters . Wiped out his entire family with a shotgun . Then the next owners of the house only lasted there about a month . They said they were driven from the house by evil spirits . The house ecame known around the world . That 's why the recent owners sold the land , they had enough of all the media interest and constant tourists . Have you seriously neve heard of the Amityville horro house ?
LISA: I vaguely remember hearing some stuff a while ago , but I neve eally took it in . I honestly did n't realise that the hospital was on the same land .
NANCY: Yup , right on the spot where the house was demolished . You really think the place is haunted ?
LISA: Either that or I 'm going crazy .
NANCY: Well you 're not crazy , hun . Perhaps the stories about hauntings at the house were true . Maybe the house is gone but the spirits stuck around .
LISA: You believe in ghosts ?
NANCY: I dunno , never seen one . But I like to think I 'm open minded . Plus you 're the most intelligent girl I know . If you say you 've seen something , I believe you . Lisa smiles .
LISA: Thanks Nanc .
NANCY: So what are you gon na do ? Are you gon na quit ?
LISA: Part of me says I should . There 's a lot about the place that frightens me . But I dunno I think I 've seen too much to be able to just walk away and forget the place .
NANCY: If I was you I 'd just walk away . Who wants to work at a place that frightens them ?
LISA: Well I need the money for starters . But now it feels like I need to find out more .
NANCY: Maybe you are crazy after all !
BUTCH: Hey Pop .
RONALD SENIOR: You come to help ?
BUTCH: I 'm going out .
RONALD SENIOR: Again ? Boy , you better not be turning up for work tomorrow like a goddamn zombie again .
BUTCH: Yeah , yeah Pop .
RONALD SENIOR: Do n't yeah yeah me boy . You 're on a last warning .
BUTCH: I seen you got Mark a wheelchair . Mom says it cost five hundred ucks .
RONALD SENIOR: What of it ?
BUTCH: Well how come you 're spending five hundred bucks on Mark and I got ta come beg you for money all the time huh ?
RONALD SENIOR: What 's the matter with you , boy ? Your brother 's broken his leg , he needs that wheelchair .
BUTCH: Well I need money too !
RONALD SENIOR: Butch , you get a wage from the auto dealership every Friday and it 's gone by Monday . Why is that ?
BUTCH: I got ta live .
RONALD SENIOR: What you spending that money on huh ? Cos it ai n't rent or food . You get everything you want for nothing 'round here . I know what you 're eally doing with that money .
BUTCH: You do n't know shit !
RONALD SENIOR: Boy , you better shut that mouth of yours .
BUTCH: This ai n't over .
MICK: Butch , I told you man , you ca n't get no shit on lay-away any more . Your credit 's all used up .
BUTCH: You accept cash ? Mick smiles .
MICK: My man ! Come on in .
RONALD SENIOR: Nineteen thousand dollars boy ! Nineteen thousand ! !
BUTCH: What ? ?
RONALD SENIOR: You stole that fuckin ' money from the auto dealership ! !
BUTCH: What the fuck you talking about ? ? I was robbed ! ! Did n't Brigante tell you huh ? Some fuckers car jacked me Pop . I told the police about it !
RONALD SENIOR: You expect me to believe that , boy ? You think I 'm fuckin ' stupid ? ?
BUTCH: I ai n't saying your stupid pop , I 'm telling you the truth ! I was robbed god-damn it !
LOUISE: What the hell 's going on ? ?
RONALD SENIOR: Our son 's a fuckin ' junkie thief , that 's what 's going on ! ! He robbed the fucking dealership ! !
BUTCH: Do n't listen to him Ma , I ai n't done nothing ! !
LOUISE: Stop it ! ! Stop it now ! !
RONALD SENIOR: Why do you always have to get involved huh ? ? You 've always been too soft on that boy ! !
LOUISE: Do n't you touch him ! !
RONALD SENIOR: He needs some fuckin ' discipline ! !
LOUISE: Stay away from him ! !
BUTCH: I 've had enough of you fat man ! !
LOUISE: Ronnie , do n't ! ! Please ! !
FIGURE: Kill them before they kill you .
LISA: Do you know the history of this place ?
DELANEY: There 's not much history . We 've only been open a couple of years .
LISA: No , I mean the history of the land .
DELANEY: You mean what was on the land efore the hospital ?
LISA: Yeah .
DELANEY: I know a bit about that .
LISA: One Twelve Ocean Avenue . The Amityville haunted house .
DELANEY: Well I do n't know that it was haunted . Lots of people think that 's lies . I know about the kid that killed his family . That 's true .
LISA: I did n't know about it until a friend told me .
DELANEY: Really ? It 's a famous case .
LISA: How come you never mentioned it ?
DELANEY: You seem spooked already . I did n't want to make it worse .
LISA: Y'know why I 'm spooked ?
DELANEY: Because of the patients on Ward X .
LISA: It 's not just that Delaney . I think this place is haunted . In fact , I 'm sure of it .
DELANEY: You 've seen something ?
LISA: Remember I said I saw a little girl oaming the hallways here ? I know who she is . She 's one of the DeFeo children who were killed . You eve seen her ?
DELANEY: No .
LISA: Honestly ?
DELANEY: To be honest I do n't believe in all that ghost stuff .
LISA: Well I was n't a huge believer , but I know what I 've seen .
DELANEY: I believe that you 've seen something . Some people are more open to that kind of thing , y'know ? But me ? I 'm closed off to that extra terrestrial stuff .
LISA: Extra terrestrial is aliens .
DELANEY: Whatever it 's called , I do n't know .
LISA: So what do you believe in ? Do you elieve in God ?
DELANEY: Serious questions tonight .
LISA: I 'm just curious .
DELANEY: Why do you ask ?
LISA: It 's something I 've been thinking about . How can evil exist in a
DELANEY: I do n't believe that God is a earded man who lives in the sky . Or that the Devil is a red demon with horns . I believe God and Satan are within all of us . God is ou human side . Satan is our animal side . Whether we become good o evil depends which side of us we feed .
LISA: It 's a frightening thing to believe that if God exists he is not powerful enough to stop evil .
DELANEY: Free will in the hands of a person who feeds the Evil inside them . That 's what frightens me . Lisa ponders for a moment .
LISA: Doctor Mixter must have known what stood on this land before the hospital .
DELANEY: Of course he did . He bought the land and organised the demolition of the house himself .
LISA: Why would he build on this land knowing the history of the place ?
DELANEY: He 's not superstitious . He 's a doctor , they do n't usually believe in those things . Amityville is full of local legends , going back even efore the DeFeos .
LISA: Like what ?
DELANEY: There 's stories about the Native Americans being slaughtered on this land many years ago . Some people
LISA: Really ?
DELANEY: I do n't think that 's true . If I 've learnt anything from the patients on Ward X , it 's that some people have a mind that works in a different way to other people . Those people who do bad things have fed the evil within them more than the good . It 's not possession , it 's sickness . Sickness of the soul .
LISA: I do n't know what to think .
DELANEY: Just do n't let your imagination run away with you Lisa . You 're a person who feeds that good within you . Do n't let this place feed the evil .
LISA: Hi , sorry to bother you but my name 's Lisa Templeton . I rang yesterday to set up a meeting with Gloria Branco .
GLORIA: Yes , that 's me .
LISA: Oh great ! Thank you for agreeing to meet with me .
GLORIA: No problem , nice to meet you ! I 've set up a table in the back . I 've
LISA: Thank you , that 's great .
GLORIA: So you wanted to know about the history of Amityville dating back to the Native Americans ?
LISA: Yes that 's right . I 'm writing a college paper and I had heard some umours in the neighbourhood about Native Americans being killed on the land down on Oceans Avenue .
GLORIA: Well that area has quite a dark history .
LISA: You mean the DeFeo murders at One Twelve ?
GLORIA: Yes . Terrible business that . Those young children . Breaks my heart to think about such a tragedy .
LISA: Yeah it 's awful .
GLORIA: You know most of the town was very upset when they decided to build that mental institution on the land . That used to be a nice suburban neighbourhood , now there 's this big eye sore there . We had a
LISA: So what about the native Americans ? Is that story about them being killed on that land true ?
GLORIA: There 's something on that here . Gloria flips through one of the books .
LISA: So the legend has basis in historical fact ?
GLORIA: Absolutely .
LISA: You told me the other night that you think evil is within us all . But do you think that people can be influenced by an evil that comes from outside of themselves ?
DELANEY: Are you still thinking about this ?
LISA: I guess I am yeah .
DELANEY: I worry that you 're thinking too much . This place is getting to you .
LISA: There 's something going on in this place . Something sinister . And I do n't just mean the patients on Ward X . Have you not noticed that ?
DELANEY: I 've noticed some things .
LISA: Why have n't you said anything ? O done anything ?
DELANEY: It 's like the honey bee .
LISA: What do you mean ?
DELANEY: The honey bee is fine when it 's just flying from flower to flower . Then they think that a person is a threat and they sting them . They might leave a sting but the person will recover . The bee dies . So I ask myself is it worth it ?
LISA: I know what you 're doing . No response .
SADIE: The Dark Master is near . It 's too late to stop it now . Tonight will ehold a great becoming .
LISA: What 's going to happen ? You 're planning on a human sacrifice are n't you ?
SADIE: All good things to those who wait .
LISA: Tell me ! !
SADIE: Our time is at hand !
LISA: Doctor Mixter .
MIXTER: Oh Lisa , Hello . What brings you here ?
LISA: I just wondered if I could speak to you for a moment sir . It 's very important .
MIXTER: Of course , come in .
LISA: Well what I 'm going to tell you will sound really strange but I need to tell you .
MIXTER: Okay , go ahead .
LISA: Do you know the history of the land the hospital is built on ?
MIXTER: What are you referring to exactly ?
LISA: Well , first of all . The DeFeo murders and the infamous house that people said was haunted .
MIXTER: I am aware of the DeFeo murders yes . The hauntings well I think it 's common perception now that a lot of that was exaggerated by the media .
LISA: Maybe . Are you aware of the history of the land dating back to the eighteenth century ?
MIXTER: No , I ca n't say that I am .
LISA: There were a group of Native Americans in Amityville known as `` The Satchem Tribe '' . They were massacred by Christians after a dispute over the land .
MIXTER: Okay . I 'm sure there 's a point to all this ?
LISA: Yes . Sadie Krenwinkel down on Ward X . She shares the beliefs of the Satchem Tribe . I have reason to elieve that somehow she has access to the internet and Witchcraft paraphernalia and she 's planning on a human sacrifice tonight to try and raise the God she believes in , The Dark Master , and become immortal . Mixter chuckles .
MIXTER: Have you been reading up on Sadie ? It 's rather outlandish stuff is n't it ? But I can assure you she has no access to the internet or anything else .
LISA: Go on the internet and check out the Blog ! She signs herself Siste Sadie .
MIXTER: Well that could be anyone called Sadie could n't it ?
LISA: Go down and search her cell !
MIXTER: I do n't believe that will be necessary . The patients on Ward X spend twenty three hours a day in the cell . They get an hour of exercise in a small yard guarded by six of our staff . There 's no way
LISA: Then someone is helping her get access to this stuff ! Someone who works here ! Please Doctor Mixter . Just check out her cell and speak to her . If I 'm wrong about this and it 's all just her delusions then fine . I 'll accept that . But I had to tell you . You testified at he trial did n't you ?
MIXTER: Yes I did . What are you implying ?
LISA: Nothing . I just meant you know how dangerous she is .
MIXTER: Yes , I understand how dangerous she is and I appreciate you coming to express your concerns . One thing you need to bear in mind Lisa is that there are some very sick patients at this institution . We do our best to help those who can be helped but unfortunately the patients on Ward X are beyond help . Their personality disorders are too advanced , their delusions are too grandiose . I worry that perhaps you have been rather taken in by one of those delusions .
LISA: I know that it might sound like that . But can you check her cell and speak to her ? Look at the blog on the internet , see if you can connect the IP number of the write with a computer here at the hospital .
MIXTER: Okay look . That does take time and esources I do n't necessarily have . But as you 've come to me with a concern of patient infraction and potential threat of violence , I am duty bound to investigate .
LISA: Thank you .
MIXTER: In fact , I 'll order a cell search immediately . Stay here for a moment , I 'll be right back .
LISA: What the hell are you doing ? ?
MIXTER: This is for your own good Lisa . You need treatment .
LISA: Fuck you ! ! !
MIXTER: Now Lisa , let 's talk calmly or you will be sedated again .
LISA: Why are you doing this ?
MIXTER: You 're having paranoid delusions . I 'm also aware that you 've been having disturbing visions .
LISA: I 'm not having delusions , I know what I 've seen !
MIXTER: Well you think you know . The human ain is a powerful thing and I 'm sure you do believe what you 've seen . But it 's all in your mind Lisa , it 's not reality . You 're a very sick girl and you need treatment .
LISA: You do this to all your staff huh ? The minute we speak out we get fucking committed ? ?
MIXTER: Staff ? You were never staff here Lisa . You 're a patient here . You 've always been a patient here . Lisa appears confused .
LISA: No , no . You 're lying to me , I know who I am ! I KNOW WHO I AM ! !
MIXTER: I 'm afraid not my dear . You 've always been with us here . Initially as an out patient but now the delusions have progressed I feel it 's time for you to become a full time resident .
LISA: But but
MIXTER: Look , I understand it 's a lot to process now . I 'll leave you to think about it and then we 'll begin counselling sessions tomorrow .
LISA: Okay . Lisa sobs .
MIXTER: Listen , how about I take this straight jacket off so you 're more comfortable ?
LISA: Thank you .
MIXTER: First you must take this . It will help you sleep .
LISA: Okay .
MIXTER: That better ?
LISA: Yes . Thank you .
MIXTER: No problem . I 'm going to leave you get some rest now . Tomorrow we start the healing process .
SADIE: Adoni , Helumnay , Peenay , Adoni , Helumnay , Peenay , The gods do command thee from thy majesty oh mapulamun .
DELANEY: We need to get out of here ! One of the patients is running around with a shot gun down on Ward X !
LISA: Fuck ! !
DELANEY: The patients are loose !
ORDERLY #1: We 'll take care of them .
LISA: Should n't we help them ? ?
DELANEY: We need to save ourselves . Let them eap what they 've sewn .
ALLISON: Why do n't you want to play with me ?
LISA: Hey mister , you need to get the hell out of here , there 's a patient going crazy with a gun ! !
MAN: Mymy skin 's on too tight !
DELANEY: What ?
MAN: My skin is on too tight !
LISA: Come on , hurry , please ! !
DELANEY: Kurwa ! !
LISA: What , what ? ?
DELANEY: A fucking key 's been snapped in the lock !
LISA: Fuck ! !
MIXTER: I see we 've dispensed with the usual pleasantries . Come in Lisa .
LISA: You gon na tell me it 's all in my head now huh ? ? Wan na tell me I 'm the crazy one ? ?
MIXTER: Well maybe it is , maybe it is n't . How would you know ?
LISA: Get the fuck out of my head you son-of-a-bitch ! I know who I am and I know what I 've seen ! You 're part of all of this . I know you are ! You 're the crazy one ! !
MIXTER: You 're the one holding the gun on a well respected doctor , my dear .
LISA: Why did you do this ? Why ? ?
MIXTER: You are part of a great becoming tonight . A rising of The Dark Master who blesses all of his followers with power and immortality .
LISA: You fucking believe that do you ? ? Sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me ! You 're no better than those fucking fundamentalists who kill innocent people because they 've twisted shit they 've read in some Holy book . It 's all shit ! !
MIXTER: The plan for the becoming is almost complete . Just one more sacrifice , that 's all we need tonight .
LISA: How about if I blow your fucking head off then huh ? ?
MIXTER: It 's all falling into place .
LISA: The cops coming here ? I 'm gon na tell them everything about you and your little sick plan ! They 're gon na lock you up and throw away the key ! !
MIXTER: If you say so .
LISA: What did you say ? ?
MIXTER: Yes . That 's why she 's burning in hell .
LISA: You shut the fuck about my mother , you do n't know anything ! !
MIXTER: I know that sometimes you wonde why you do n't cry enough for her . I know you feel guilty for not doing more for her when she was alive . You feel guilty for moving on with
LISA: I have not forgotten about her ! !
MIXTER: Face it Lisa , you never cared fo her . You never cared for anyone but yourself . She 's looking up from the owels of hell now knowing that you never loved her !
LISA: SHUT UP ! ! SHUT UP ! !
MIXTER: She was a whore !
LISA: Fuck you ! !
PRESENTER: And we 're back with our next guest . A year ago he was a survivor of the High Hopes Hospital mass murde when cleaner Lisa Templeton ran amok with a rifle , claiming six victims and injuring many others . Doctor Elliot Mixter has written a new book entitled 'Shattered Hopes ' which provides an account of that fateful night as well as some ackground into the mind of the murderer . Doctor Mixter , good morning .
MIXTER: Morning Katherine , how are you ?
PRESENTER: I 'm good thank you . So Doctor , can you tell us a little more about the ook ?
MIXTER: Well , it features a blow by blow account of the evening . It was obviously a very harrowing experience and for me it was rathe therapeutic to deal with my feelings about what happened in writing .
PRESENTER: How has it affected the hospital Doctor ?
MIXTER: Obviously we were all left very numb by events for a long time and I know a lot of people in the town felt we should close the institution . But that neve occurred to me . I feel that people should be brought closer by tragedy and the Staff and I have definitely ecome closer , both as colleagues and friends , since the incident . That bond makes for a bette
PRESENTER: You mentioned there that some people wanted the place to close . I know many were also resistant to the opening of the institution in the first place given that it was uilt on the site of the infamous house , where Ronald DeFeo murdered his family in the seventies . I know a lot of people associated with that case were accused of exploiting it for their own ends . You 've also faced some criticism for that , particularly as we heard last week that you have sold the movie rights to this book . How do you respond to that criticism ?
MIXTER: Well I know that some people accuse me of hurting the memory of the victims but I feel I 'm helping the memories of those involved live on . Granted , some victims were criminally insane but other victims were loyal staff who had families and I 'm determined that they not be forgotten . Each staff member gets their own chapter in the book so that the readers can get a full picture of what wonderful people they were . I always say that all forms of media , whether it be ooks , newspapers , TV or movies , are a preservation of life . Ou physical bodies may die but ou images live on when we are famous . Our work and our passion is preserved , therefore it 's as if ou souls are preserved . Through all of these forms of media we are , in effect , immortal .
NEIGHBOR: Wait Outside please .
POLICE OFFICER: What 's the date of the last letter ?
VERIFYING: The 16th from what I can see Wait
JANITOR: no as far as I know . During the whole time , they had a nurse , but it 's been a while since I last saw her . My wife has been
DOOR: Did you open the windows ? The firemen shake their heads .
GEORGES: They used a screwdriver o something like thatit does n't look very professional
ANNE: But who would do something like that ?
GEORGES: No idea . Why do people break in ? Because they want to steal something .
ANNE: From us ?
GEORGES: Hey , why not ? If I thought about it , I could come up with at least three or four people we know who 've een burgled .
ANNE: What time is it ? Ca n't we call the superintendent ?
GEORGES: I 'll do that tomorrow morning . Anyway , they did n't see anything .
ANNE: Or the police ?
GEORGES: Come on , give me your coat .
ANNE: Imagine if we were here , in ou eds , and someone broke in .
GEORGES: Why should I imagine that ?
ANNE: But it 's terrible ! I think I 'd die of fright .
GEORGES: So would I . He undoes his shoes .
ANNE: I 'm tired .
GEORGES: I still fancy a drink .
FLATTERED: What 's got into you ?
ANNE: No .
GEORGES: What about next week ? No but still , it would make sense to get it done soon . It might give people silly ideas . And anyway , it 's too ugly to look at Wednesday ? What time ? OK Will you bring the paint with you too , to paint over it ? But at least some primerYes , OK . Thank you . He hangs up .
TO ANNE: You can depend on that guy .
ANNE: I hope so . The last time , he kept us waiting for ages , if you emember .
GEORGES: Yes , that 's true . Thanks . If I call a regula professional , we 'll still be waiting two months time .
ANNE: Really ?
GEORGES: The Frodons waited three days when their toilet was blocked . Not exactly pleasant .
ANNE: What are you doing ? She turns toward the breakfast .
GEORGES: Hey , what 's going on ? Are you completely crazy ? Is this supposed to be a joke , or what 's going on ? She looks at him with amazement .
ANNE: What did you say ?
GEORGES: Is this a joke ? Is this meant to be a joke ?
ANNE: What joke ? I do n't get it ! Why are you talking to me like that ? What 's got into you ? Georges comes from the door to the table .
GEORGES: Anne ! Please ! Stop this game . It 's not funny .
GETTING IRRITATED: What game , for Christ 's sake ? What on earth 's the matter ? ! !
GEORGES: What 's the matter ? Why did n't you eact ?
ANNE: To what ?
GEORGES: To what ? To me , to everything .
ANNE: When ?
GEORGES: Just now . A moment ago .
ANNE: Please tell me what 's wrong . What am I supposed to have done ?
GEORGES: I do n't know what to say . Do you eally not know what just happened ?
ANNE: But what DID happen ?
GEORGES: You were sitting there , staring at me . You did n't answer me when I asked you what the matter was . He picks up the wet tea towel from the table .
ANNE: When When was it ?
GEORGES: Just now , a few minutes ago .
ANNE: So ? ?
GEORGES: There 's no `` So '' . I went into the edroom to get dressed . I wanted to get help .
ANNE: Help ?
GEORGES: Yes , and then you turned off the tap .
ANNE: Yes . Because you left it on .
GEORGES: Neither do I .
ANNE: Why ? What can he do ?
GEORGES: I do n't know . Examine you .
ANNE: I 'm fine . There 's nothing wrong with me .
GEORGES: Anne , please ! ! That 's absurd . We ca n't pretend that nothing happened .
ANNE: But what DID happen ?
GEORGES: Can you explain how the tea towel got there ?
ANNE: No , I ca n't !
GEORGES: Who turned on the tap ?
ANNE: You did !
GEORGES: Can you remember that ?
ANNE: No I ca n't ! Do you want to torture me ? Leave me in peace ! Georges looks at her .
GEORGES: Do n't you think it would be bette to fetch Dr. Bertier ?
ANNE: No !
EVA: You know how he is . Once he 's got something into his head , he has to go through with it . In the end , everybody was delighted . And esides , it did n't hurt ou financial situation . We 're playing until the 28th .
MORE: 13 .
GEORGES: What about the children ?
EVA: Liz is at boarding school and John is living his own life . He 's twenty- six years old .
GEORGES: What does he do ?
EVA: He 's a student . We rarely see him . He 's got his own ideas . Life Geoff . They do n't really get along . Geoff wants to advise him on everything , and John does n't like that at all .
GEORGES: Is he good ?
EVA: I think so . He 's less impulsive . Very industrious .
GEORGES: That sounds rather derogatory .
EVA: No ! ! He 's not like Geoff . Quiet , ut stubborn . I think he 'll do all ight . At the last Conservatory concert , he played the solo part in the Haydn Concerto . It was very good . Geoff was there and congratulated him at the end . Brief PAUSE .
GEORGES: And you ?
EVA: What do you mean ?
GEORGES: Did you both make up ?
EVA: My God , you know him , do n't you ? Over the winter , he suddenly discovered his passion for a viola player who 'd been in our ensemble for years . What can I tell you ? It was a huge drama , and the poo little darling wound up trying to commit suicide . That scared him and he came back to me in full remorse . I 've got used to it now . What 's a it embarrassing is that the ensemble , you ca n't keep any secrets from anyone .
GEORGES: Do you love him ?
EVA: Yes , I think so . Brief PAUSE .
GEORGES: What can I say ? The carotid artery was blocked . They did an ultrasound scan , two in fact , and they said they had to operate on her . She was scared . She was confused and scared . You know she has always een afraid of doctors . They said the risk was very low and that if they did n't operate , she 'd be certain to have a serious stroke .
EVA: And what do they say now ?
GEORGES: Just that it did n't go well . It 's one of the 5 % that go wrong . He yawns .
EVA: I 'm so sorry .
GEORGES: Yeah .
EVA: What can I do for you ?
GEORGES: Nothing . It was nice of you to come despite all of your stress . Brief PAUSE . She does n't know what to say .
LITTLE LAUGH: All this is still a bit new .
EVA: It 's funny . I do n't know if I should say it . Maybe it 'll embarrass you . But when I came here a short while ago , I suddenly emembered how I always used to listen to the two of you making love when I was little .
MORE: 16 .
GEORGES: Here . Thank you very much . It 's fo oth of you . You can just put the things down here . There , beside the window , right . We 'll be okay on ou own . Thanks a lot .
TO ANNE: It 's nice to have you back , Mrs. Laurent .
ANNE: Yes . Thank you , Mr. Mery . Thank you .
GEORGES: Goodbye , Mr. Mery .
ANNE: In the living room .
GEORGES: Shall I make some tea ?
ANNE: First come sit with me .
GEORGES: Of course .
ANNE: It 's best if you put my arm around your neck and your right arm around me , that way it 'll be easy .
GEORGES: I 'm glad you 're back .
ANNE: Me too . Another PAUSE . Then Anne says
GEORGES: What ?
ANNE: Please never take me back to the hospital .
GEORGES: What ?
ANNE: You promise ?
GEORGES: Anne
ANNE: You promise ?
GEORGES: Anne , I
ANNE: Do n't talk right now . And do n't give me any lectures . Please . Brief PAUSE .
GEORGES: What can I say , it 's
GEORGES: There .
ANNE: Thank you . Thank you , Darling .
GEORGES: Everything OK ?
ANNE: Everything 's fine . He hesitates .
GEORGES: I do n't feel guilty .
ANNE: That 's good . She smiles .
ANNE: Did you buy the new book on Harnoncourt ?
GEORGES: I 've already read it .
ANNE: And ?
GEORGES: Do you want it ? I 'll get it fo you .
ANNE: Sure .
GEORGES: OK .
MORE: 24 .
ANNE: So ? How did he react ?
GEORGES: No idea . He probably found it amusing . I do n't remember . I do n't emember the film either . But I emember the feeling . That I was ashamed of crying , but that telling him the story made all my feelings and tears come back , almost more powerfully than when I was actually watching the film , and that I just could n't stop .
ANNE: That 's cute . Why did n't you eve tell me before ?
GEORGES: There are still a few stories you do n't know .
ANNE: Aha ? Do n't tell me you 're going to ruin your image in your old age ?
GEORGES: You bet I wo n't . But what is my image ?
ANNE: Sometimes you 're a rotter . But you 're nice .
EMBARRASSED GRIN: Can I take you for a drink ?
ANNE: Listen to this ! My horoscope . Motto You have lots of verve , but need to be more serious ! Love High-class conversation is what you need . Work You 're motivated again . But proceed with care . Health Loosen up by doing exercises . It 'll give you renewed pizzazz . PAUSE . Then
GEORGES: You 've only yourself to blame if you read stuff like that . Brief PAUSE . Then
ANNE: You have to go .
GEORGES: I fear I must . I do n't want to go at all .
ANNE: Who does like going to funerals ?
GEORGES: Oh , I know a few people who do . Annette can never wait to get all dolled up again . And Franois has
ANNE: You 're mean . What would you say if no one came to your funeral ?
GEORGES: Nothing , presumably .
ANNE: Have you talked to Jeanne since I was in the hospital ? I mean , does she know I ca n't come ?
GEORGES: Of course .
ANNE: What did she say ?
GEORGES: She was shocked .
ANNE: How ?
GEORGES: My God , what are people like when they 're shocked ? She could n't elieve it , she was speechless . I do n't remember any more . In any case , not exactly . I 've spoken to a lot of people since .
ANNE: Sorry .
GEORGES: No , I 'm sorry . I did n't mean to be unkind , but I just do n't see the point of talking about it all the time . Short PAUSE .
ANNE: Do I talk about it all the time ?
GEORGES: No . Sorry .
ANNE: Do n't worry .
GEORGES: What ? !
ANNE: ( once she 's seated in the
WHEELCHAIR: Why are you back already ? What time is it ?
SOFTLY: Forgive me , I was too slow .
GEORGES: Anne
ANNE: Can you wheel me into the living oom ?
GEORGES: Yes .
ANNE: Yes . Why are you home earlier ?
GEORGES: I did n't come home earlier . I took a taxi . In August , there is n't a lot of traffic .
ANNE: That 's true . How was the funeral ?
GEORGES: Anne !
ANNE: How was it , go on , tell me !
GEORGES: It was rather bizarre . The priest was an idiot . Then one of Pierre 's co-workers made a speech that was embarrassingly emotional . His old secretary came with a radio- cassette player and after the speech she put on `` Yesterday '' by the Beatles . You ca n't imagine . Everybody turned round to look at her . Apparently , it was n't planned . His grandchildren were there . Of course they giggled as soon as the music began . Then the urn was put on a huge stretcher that was obviously designed for a coffin , and out we went into the rain . They placed the urn on a small electric cart that crawled along for what seemed like an eternity to the tiny hole they had dug . A lot of people had to stifle their laughter . It must have been terrible for Jeanne . I have
GEORGES: You 're not inflicting anything on me .
ANNE: You do n't have to lie , Georges .
GEORGES: Imagine you were me . Did n't you ever think something like this could happen to one of us ?
ANNE: Of course I did . But imagination and reality have little in common .
GEORGES: But things are getting better every day . We 'll
GEORGES: I do n't believe you . I know you . You think you 're a burden on me . But what if things were the othe way around ? What would you do then ?
ANNE: I do n't know . I ca n't be bothered to think about being you . I 'm tired . You tire me . Everything tires me . I ca n't talk . I want to go to bed .
GEORGES: Oh hello ! Nice to see you .
SOLOIST: Forgive me for dropping in on you like this , Professor . I tried to each you by phone a couple of times , but no luck .
GEORGES: I 'm sorry . I only pick up the phone when I 've stored the caller 's number and I can see who 's calling . Why did n't you leave a message ? Anyway , do come in He closes the door behind his guest .
SOLOIST: I just could n't manage to come by after the concert . I was so sorry , ecause I was so pleased you came along .
GEORGES: Come with me .
SOLOIST: And now , an unexpected opportunity has arisen because Franois Mitry called me - you know him , he 's my agent - to say he 'd arranged for me to meet the boss of the Thtre des Champs-Elyses tonight to talk about their new concert series .
MORE: 31 .
GEORGES: Yes , she is . I 'll go and get her in a minute . Have a seat .
SOLOIST: I hope I 'm not disturbing you too much .
GEORGES: No , not at all . I 'm happy that you came . We were so thrilled by you concert . We hoped we 'd see you again soon . Please do have a seat . Can I can get you something ? A cup of tea ?
SOLOIST: No , no , thank you very much .
GEORGES: Hold on , I 'll just freshen up the flowers ; in this heat they wilt so fast
SOLOIST: I 've only just bought them . They should keep quite
ANNE: Martin ! What a delight . How lovely to see you !
SOLOIST: Mrs. Laurent ! Lovely to see you too .
ANNE: Do n't get up . Come on , sit yourself down and do n't look so shocked .
SOLOIST: Oh God ! I wanted to bring you the CD , but I left in such a hurry that I forgot it . I 'm so sorry . I 'll get one today and drop it by .
ANNE: No , no , do n't worry . We want to make a contribution to you success . Even if it 's only twenty euros .
SOLOIST: You 've already contributed so much . I owe you so much , Madame .
ANNE: You owe it to your hard work and your talent .
SOLOIST: Do you emember , when you first gave me the Bagatelles to play ? I was twelve at the time , and in my youthful arrogance I said `` But why the Bagatelles ? '' And you really gave me a piece of your mind .
ANNE: My right side is paralyzed , that 's all . It can happen when you get older .
SOLOIST: And how ?
ANNE: Let 's talk about something else , shall we ?
SOLOIST: Sure
ANNE: Do n't be offended . But I want to enjoy the lovely interlude you 've given us with your visit .
SOLOIST: Of course . Brief PAUSE .
GEORGES: You have n't told us yet what 's been going on since the Paris concert .
SOLOIST: Well , actually I 've spent most of the time in London studying . Then I went to Copenhagen for two performances , that was Schubert too . My whole life revolves around Schubert at the moment . The concerts with the Impromptus and the Moments Musicaux , and for my ead-and-butter work I 'm developing the sonatas . Not the late ones , I think I still need a couple more years for those .
ANNE: Could you do me a favor ?
SOLOIST: Really ?
ANNE: Would you play Fr Elise ?
SOLOIST: Um , I do n't know if I remember it very well . Beethoven , it 's been a long time since I 've But if you want
ANNE: Give it a try .
SOLOIST: OK .
ANNE: What 's the matter ?
GEORGES: Good God , what are you doing ?
ANNE: I 'm sorry .
GEORGES: Yes , so am I .
ANNE: Sorry .
GEORGES: The lamp is broken too .
ANNE: Georges ? What 's going on ? Who is it ?
ANNE'S VOICE: Calm down will you ! There 's nothing there . It 's nothing .
ANNE: What was it ?
GEORGES: I did n't understand I thought I 'd gone mad It was something impossible
ANNE: What was ?
GEORGES: Eva . They 're coming on the 12th .
ANNE: Why ?
GEORGES: No idea . Apparently she 's coming with Geoff .
ANNE: When is it ?
GEORGES: I do n't know exactly . What day is it today ? I 'll go and look . Short PAUSE .
ANNE: I do n't want that .
GEORGES: What ?
ANNE: Geoff does n't need to come .
GEORGES: Dear Madame Laurent , Dear Monsieu Laurent , it was beautiful and yet sad to see you . My heartfelt wishes that things will get better . With deep gratitude , your forme pupil , Martin .
ANNE: Stop the CD .
GEORGES: The family albums ? I do n't know , there , in the other room . Why ?
ANNE: Can you get them for me ?
GEORGES: What , now ? Anne nods .
ANNE: I 'd like to look at them .
GEORGES: You 're welcome .
ANNE: That 's nice .
GEORGES: What ?
ANNE: Lifeso long What a long life
GEORGES: I was n't watching you .
ANNE: Of course you were . I 'm not that dumb yet .
GEORGES: You 're soaked through .
ANNE: What do you mean ? Brief PAUSE .
GEORGES: Hold on .
ANNE: I ca n't take it any more .
GEORGES: My love . My darling .
EVA: thinking about whether it would n't be better to invest the money in an apartment block . If inflation gets going again , property is the only sure thing . Right now , savings accounts pay 1.75 % at best . Four years ago , Geoff bought some stocks with a small sum of money and the whole thing collapsed . So now we 're obviously worried . Unfortunately , in the meantime , other people have had the same idea , and property prices are going through the roof . Since we came back from Scandinavia , I spend all my spare time looking through newspaper ads .
ANNE: Yes yes I have I have the grandmother woman with house not the house then money
EVA: I do n't understand you , I 'm afraid .
ANNE: yes now it 's all house sel sel sel was in two strokes of so quickly god it 's hard to say sell money gone left there too PAUSE . Eva has tears in her eyes .
GEORGES: three times a week I 'm not experienced enough . We 'll see if that 's enough .
GEOFF: How much is she asking ?
GEORGES: It 's paid by the hour . We 'll see .
GEOFF: And her ?
GEORGES: Anne ? Geoff nods . Georges shrugs .
GEOFF: And what about the doctor ? What does he say ?
GEORGES: He 's
EVA: She only talks gibberish . I do n't know what Geoff gets up , hesitantly .
GEOFF: Hey , dear
EVA: Nothing is OK .
GEORGES: We ca n't do anything for the moment . Calm down , darling . She 's getting medical treatment , they give her the necessary medication , and there are no other options ight now .
EVA: What does that mean , `` no othe options '' ? Why is n't she in a hospital ?
GEORGES: She had a second stroke . Bertie examined her and felt we could spare her all the hospital inpatient procedures .
MORE: 44 .
GEOFF: Do n't you think you 're taking on too much ?
GEORGES: Have you got a better idea ?
EVA: I ca n't believe that these days there 's no way of handling this efficiently .
GEORGES: No one 's stopping you from finding out .
PEACEABLY: Believe me , I love your mother as much as you do . So please , do n't treat me as if I was a total idiot incapable of doing the obvious .
EVA: I did n't say that . I 'm simply questioning whether what I see going on here is the answer to everything !
GEOFF: Do n't you want to get a second opinion ?
GEORGES: Now you two had better stop , OK ? Another doctor did come . He said Bertier was right . From Monday , a nurse will come three times a week . Now can we talk about something else ?
EVA: Like what ?
GEORGES: There , my love , I hope you like it .
ANNE: OK
GEORGES: I added a little orange juice . I find it tastes quite good .
ANNE: Mom to the concert
GEORGES: Yes ?
ANNE: Mom to the concert no dress
GEORGES: Mom has no dress for the concert ?
ANNE: Mom to concert no uuu no
GEORGES: Yes ? Long PAUSE . Georges waits .
ANNE: Help ! Help ! Help ! Help ! Help ! Help !
NURSE: we could take turns . She 'd come from 8 till 12 and I 'd do 2 until 6 , or 3 to 7 . That would certainly elieve the pressure on you .
GEORGES: I 'll think about it .
NURSE: She just has to know in time so she can arrange it in her schedule .
GEORGES: Yes , of course , I 'll let you know in the next few days .
NURSE: Very well . I have to go now
GEORGES: My pleasure . I 'll see you out .
NURSE: You must n't take it too seriously . Usually they always say something . She might just as well say `` Mom , Mom , Mom '' . It 's just mechanical .
GEORGES: I know . They 've reached the door .
NURSE: Goodbye , sir .
GEORGES: Goodbye .
ANNE: HelpHelp
GEORGES: Would you mind putting them in the kitchen .
ANNE: Ssssur
GEORGES: Sur le pont
ANNE: po pont sss
GEORGES: Sur le pont Sur le pont
ANNE: Ssssur le pont
GEORGES: Su le pont d'Avignon
ANNE: ssur le ..
GEORGES: pont Sur le pont d'Avignon Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse , on y danse , sur le pont d'Avignon tout le monde y danse en rond
SECOND NURSE: there we arenow we 're all eautiful againso everybody will admire usthereyou see wait
NURSE: as you wish , sir . I do n't know what you were expecting . I gave up another job to come and work here . You should have thought it ove efore deciding whether you wanted a second nurse or not .
GEORGES: But I 've only just found out how incompetent you are .
NURSE: What 's that supposed to mean ?
GEORGES: I do n't want to discuss it with you . Anyway , you would n't understand .
NURSE: No one has ever complained .
GEORGES: Good for you . How much do I owe you ?
NURSE: Seven hundred and eighty euros .
GEORGES: Do you have twenty euros ?
NURSE: No .
GEORGES: Then take the eight hundred euros . You can go now . The nurse pockets the money .
NURSE: You 're a nasty old man . I feel sorry for you .
GEORGES: I hope from the bottom of my heart that one day someone treats you the way you treat your patients , and that you too will have no way of defending yourself . Now get out .
NURSE: Go fuck yourself , you old fart !
GEORGES: Please , open your mouth go on open it Anne ! Please ! come on stop that ! He sits upright .
ANGRILY: Goddammit !
ANNE: Help help
GEORGES: Please , forgive me .
ANNE: Help Help Help Help
GEORGES: Who 's there ?
EVA'S VOICE: It 's me .
GEORGES: Eva ?
EVA'S VOICE: Yes . Georges , panicked , thinks for a few seconds .
GEORGES: Just a minute .
EVA: Hello . What was going on ?
GEORGES: I was in the toilet . Sorry .
EVA: What 's going on with Mom ?
GEORGES: Nothing . What should be going on ?
EVA: Well ( gesture toward the
GEORGES: Do n't you want to sit down first ?
EVA: What 's going on with Mom ? Why do n't you answer the phone ? After ou last conversation , I left fou messages on your answering machine . Why do n't you call back ?
GEORGES: Sorry . I did n't listen to it . Forgive me .
EVA: Do n't you realize we 're worried ?
GEORGES: Your worries are no use to me . Eva glares at him .
EVA: Dad
GEORGES: No . Let 's stop this conversation ight there . I 'm taking care of your mother . It 's a full-time job . And I 'm not saying that to complain , just to explain why I did n't answer your phone calls and why I do n't want to have any pointless discussions on the subject . Your mother is just as could have been expected bad the whole time .
MORE: 58 .
EVA: Dad , what 's the matter ?
GEORGES: Nothing 's the matter ; your visit caught me by surprise . And I 'm annoyed that you show up here to check that everything 's OK. Who do you think you are ? PAUSE . Eva is speechless .
GEORGES: Stay here , will you ! She stops short , looks at him .
EVA: I do n't want to sit down . What 's going on here ?
GEORGES: Nothing 's going on . I want to spare us all a pointless drama . I presume your mother is asleep . She mostly sleeps the whole day . And then she wakes up at night . If you really want to , we 'll go and see her in a little while . Now , sit down . OK ? They look at each other .
EVA: You ca n't stop me from seeing her .
GEORGES: No .
EVA: It 's me , Mom . Anne emits a FURIOUS SOUND .
HELPLESS: Can I do something for you ? Mom
ANNE: Mom Mom Mom Mom Mom
GEORGES: The tea is n't very hot any more . Eva turns toward him .
EVA: Thanks .
GEORGES: It was silly of me to lock the door . I 'm sorry . You took me by surprise , that 's all . I 'm sorry .
EVA: What 's going to happen now ?
GEORGES: What 's going to happen now ? The nurse comes twice a week , and every two weeks Dr. Bertier and the hairdresser come . That 's what you want to know , right ? Things will go on as they have done up until now . They 'll go from bad to worse . Things will go on , and then one day it will all be over . Brief PAUSE .
EVA: You ca n't go on like this , Dad .
GEORGES: Ca n't I ? What do you suggest ?
EVA: Ca n't we have a serious talk , you and me ?
GEORGES: What do you call `` a serious talk '' ? What do you want to suggest ? Do you want to have Mom live with you ? Do you want to pack her off to a care home ? Do you ? What do you want ? Go on , talk to me `` seriously '' ! Eva looks at him .
ANNE: short short dress only I only I all long it was ding dong
GEORGES: Yes , it swung to and fro .
ANNE: yes to fro you very serious like that like that serious
GEORGES: Yes . I think I was pretty uptight .
ANNE: yes up tight PAUSE . Anne puts her hand on Georges ' .
ANNE'S VOICE: Help Help Help Help Help
GEORGES: What is it ? ..
MORE: 63 .
ANNE: I 'm almost done .
ANNE'S VOICE: You can put your shoes on if you want .
ANNE: Thanks . They head for the front door .
MISS STUBBS: Jenny . Again .
JENNY: Is n't it because Mr Rochester 's lind ?
JACK: I do n't want to hear anything through the ceiling this afternoon , apart from the sound of sweat dripping onto textbooks .
JENNY: Cello ?
JACK: No cello .
JENNY: I thought we agreed that cello was my interest or hobby ?
JACK: It 's already your interest o hobby . When they ask you `` What 's your interest or hobby ? '' at you Oxford interview , you can say , `` Cello '' . That would n't be a lie . You do n't need to practise a hobby . A hobby is a hobby .
JENNY: Or interest .
JACK: You do n't need to be good at it . You just have to be interested in it .
JENNY: Can I stop going to the youth orchestra , then ?
JACK: No . The orchestra shows you 're a joiner-inner . Universities like joiner-inners .
JENNY: Ah . Yes . But . I 've already joined in . So now I can stop .
JACK: Well , if you stop , that shows the opposite , does n't it ? That shows you 're a rebel . They do n't want that at Oxford .
JENNY: No . They do n't want people who think for themselves .
JACK: Course they do n't .
GRAHAM: Should I wear , you know , Sunday est ?
JENNY: You 'd better , I 'm afraid . Just to show my father you 're un jeune homme serieux , not a teddy boy .
GRAHAM: Oh , God .
JENNY: It 'll be all right . I wo n't wait . It 's going to bucket down in a minute . I 'll see you at the weekend .
GRAHAM: Oh , yes . Bye .
DAVID: Hello . Jenny ignores him .
JENNY: How do I know you wo n't just drive off with the cello ?
DAVID: Ah . Good point .
JENNY: Jenny . I 've never seen a car like this before . C'est tres chic .
DAVID: It 's a Bristol . Not many of ` em made . Jenny nods , but does n't know how to respond .
JENNY: It was a rehearsal . The concert 's next Thursday .
DAVID: What are you playing ?
JENNY: Elgar .
DAVID: Ah , Elgar . I often think it 's a shame he spent so much time in Worcester , do n't you ? Worcester 's too near Birmingham . And you can hear that in the music . There 's a horrible Brummy accent in there , if you listen hard enough .
JENNY: I 'm not a Jew !
DAVID: No . I am . I wasn'taccusing you .
JENNY: Oh . Can I sit in the car with my cello ? David stops the car .
DAVID: Jump in .
JENNY: It 's even nicer on the inside .
DAVID: Where to , madam ? Jenny makes a face .
JENNY: I only live round the corner .
DAVID: What a shame . We 'll just make it last as long as we can .
JENNY: I 'd better not . I 'm a bit close to home . David lights one for himself .
DAVID: I suppose cellists must go to a lot of concerts .
JENNY: We do n't go to any concerts . We do n't believe in them .
DAVID: Oh , they 're real .
JENNY: So people say .
DAVID: Why do n't we believe in them ?
JENNY: I supposeWhat would he say ?
DAVID: Your father , this is ?
JENNY: Oh , yes . He 'd say there 's no point to them . They 're just fo fun . Apart from school concerts , of course , which are no fun at all , so we go to those . The proper ones do n't help you get on .
DAVID: Which of course is what is so wonderful about them . Anyway , you 'll go one day .
JENNY: Yes . I will . I know . Sometimes it seems as though that 's what all this slog is for . If I get to University , I 'm going to read what I want and think about what I want and listen to what I want . And I 'm going to look at paintings and go to French films and talk to people who know lots about lots .
DAVID: Good for you . Which University ?
JENNY: Oxford . If I 'm lucky . Did you go anywhere ?
DAVID: I studied at what I believe they call the University of Life . And I did n't get a very good degree there . Jenny smiles .
JENNY: This is me . Thank you .
MARJORIE: How 's your mother , Graham ?
GRAHAM: She 's fine , thanks . She sends he est , by the way .
JACK: Where are you applying , Graham ?
GRAHAM: I 'm not sure yet .
JACK: Well , when will you be sure ? You ca n't let the grass grow unde your feet , you know . Otherwise you 'll be at the back of the queue .
JENNY: I suppose so . I suppose the growing grass would knock you off alance , and then you 'd fall over , and by the time you picked yourself up , there 'd be a queue .
GRAHAM: I might take a year off .
JACK: What for ?
GRAHAM: I do n't know . Maybe do some travelling , that sort of thing .
JACK: Travelling ? What are you , a teddy oy ?
GRAHAM: Mr MellorI 'm not a teddy boy . I 'm an homme serieux . Jeune . An homme jeune serieux homme .
JENNY: Oh !
MARJORIE: Who are they from ? Jenny opens the card that 's attached to them .
JENNY: Gosh . Him .
MARJORIE: Who 's ` him ' ?
JENNY: JustA chap I met .
MARJORIE: A chap who sends flowers ? So he 's a man-chap ?
JENNY: Yes , he is , really .
JACK: What 's going on here ?
MARJORIE: Jack , I 'm afraid Jenny has been sent some flowers by a chap .
JACK: A chap ? What kind of chap ? Who ? Why ?
JENNY: He 's wishing me luck for tonight .
JACK: Are you sure that 's all he 's wishing ? And where does he get the money from ?
JENNY: He earns it , I expect .
JACK: What do you mean , he earns it ? Why is n't he at school ? What does he do ?
JENNY: Can we just go ? Otherwise the unch of good-luck flowers will actually be responsible for me actually missing the concert . Which would be ironic , n'est ce pas ?
JACK: Well I do n't like it .
MARJORIE: Objection noted . Jenny ?
JENNY: Noted .
JACK: Ten bob 's worth of luck , I eckon . That 's a lot for a schoolgirl . You ca n't leave them out here , anyway . I 'd burgle a house that had flowers outside . They 'll think we 're made of money .
JENNY: The whole point about him is that he does n't feel .
TINA: We still do n't have to like him .
JENNY: Camus does n't want you to like him . What he 's trying to say is that feeling is bourgeois . Being engagee is bourgeois . His mothe dies and he does n't feel anything . He kills this Arab and he does n't feel anything .
TINA: I would n't feel anything if my mother died . Does that make me an existentialist ?
JENNY: No . That just makes you a cow .
HATTIE: Une vache . Laughter .
JENNY: Well I 'm going to be French . I 'm going to Paris and I 'm going to smoke and listen to Jacques Brel and wear black . And I wo n't speak . Ever . C'est plus chic , comme
DAVID: Hello .
JENNY: Hello . Thank you .
DAVID: How did it go ?
JENNY: Oh , fine . I think . I mean , I did n't mess my bit up , anyway . And no-one got thrown out of the orchestra afterwards .
DAVID: Always the mark of a cultural triumph . Listen . I 'm glad I ran into you . What are you doing on Friday ?
JENNY: Going to school .
DAVID: I meant the evening .
JENNY: Oh . Yes . Of course . Nothing .
DAVID: Because I 'm going to listen to some Schubert in St John 's , Smith Square . My friends Danny and Helen will be going too , so it would n't beI 'll tell you what . I 'll come and pick you up , and if your mother and fathe disapprove , then you can have the tickets and go with one of them . How does that sound ?
JENNY: Thank you . And I 'd like you to take me . I 'd like to go with someone who knows when to clap .
DAVID: I usually watch Danny . He knows that sort of thing . Jenny smiles .
JENNY: Supper .
DAVID: If you want .
JENNY: The trouble is , we 'll already have eaten .
DAVID: Well . I mean , if you 'd like supper , then , perhaps on Friday you couldnot eat ?
JENNY: Oh . Yes . Of course .
TINA: I 'm sorry . I just had the strangest dream . I dreamed you crossed the road and spoke to a handsome man with the most eautiful car I 've ever seen . And then you came back and you did n't mention it .
JENNY: Just a man who 's been trying to pick me up . We 're going to a concert on Friday night . And then we 're having a spot of supper .
TINA: A spot of supper ?
JENNY: You 've heard of supper ?
HATTIE: We 've heard of it . But we 've never eaten it .
JENNY: Neither of you is interested in the concert part , I notice .
HATTIE: No . Of course not .
TINA: Oh my God ! I 've only just ealised ! That 's what 's going to happen to you , is n't it ? Look at her ! Men are going to pick her up in the street and take her out to supper !
HATTIE: God , you 're right , Tina . I had n't thought of that . Look at her .
JENNY: Do n't be so daft .
TINA: We 're trying to attract the attention of boys .
JENNY: Why ?
HATTIE: Because no man 's ever going to ask us out to supper . Not until we 're ladies , anyway . You 're going to have to tell us everything . Otherwise it 's not fair .
JENNY: There wo n't be anything to tell .
TINA: Well , make something up , then .
JACK: I wo n't allow it !
JENNY: Fine . He 's quite happy for you to take me .
JACK: Right . I will .
JENNY: Good .
JACK: Where is it ?
JENNY: St John 's Smith Square .
JACK: Where 's that ?
JENNY: I do n't know . I 'm sure we could find out . Marjorie comes into the room .
MARJORIE: It 's in Westminster . Just around the corner from the Abbey .
JACK: How d'you know that ?
MARJORIE: I had a life before we were married , you know .
JENNY: He soon put a stop to that .
JACK: There we are .
JENNY: Where are we ?
JACK: Near Westminster Abbey . I 'm not going all the way over there .
JENNY: The trouble is , that 's where St John 's Smith Square is .
JACK: And I 've just said . That 's where I 'm not going . There must be something on locally . Where 's the paper ?
MARJORIE: Jack , she wants to see someone who can play . She does n't want to see Sheila Kirkland scratching away . I 'll take her .
JACK: And how are you going to get ove there ? RAF helicopter ? The doorbell rings .
JENNY: That 's him . Now what ?
JACK: Oh , bloody hell .
MARJORIE: Jack !
JENNY: Oh , and by the wayDavid 's a Jew . A wandering Jew . So watch yourself . She goes to the door .
JACK: What 's she talking about ? I 've never said anything like that in my life ! Anyway , it 's just an expression ! I 'm not against the Jews !
DAVID: I 'm glad to hear it . Hello . David Goldman . He offers his hand .
JACK: I did n't mean I 'm not against you Actually , I did mean that , ecause I 'm not , but
JENNY: Dad !
JACK: I 'm sorry . What I 'm saying is that you 're not the sort of , of person I 'd be against , if I were the sort of person who was againstpeople . You 're not an oldOh , dear . I 'm Jack , and this is Marjorie .
DAVID: You did n't tell me you had a sister , Jenny .
JACK: I suppose I am , yes . They all sit down .
DAVID: So . Gosh . This is lovely . Marjorie smiles .
MARJORIE: Thank you .
JACK: I 'm sorry , David . Can I get you a drink ?
DAVID: I 'd love one , Jack , but we 're unning a little late . If Jenny 's eady , perhaps we 'll shoot off .
JENNY: Ah . Well . Dad 's got something to tell you .
JACK: No , no , nothingIt was more of a question , really . How would you get to St John 's Smith Square from here ? For future reference ?
DAVID: Oh , it 's a pretty straight run , eally . Up to Hammersmith , take the A4 through Kensington and you 're there .
JACK: Simple as that .
DAVID: Simple as that .
MARJORIE: So shall I book some tickets fo something ?
JACK: No . Beat .
DAVID: I was hoping Jenny would come with me afterwards to have a bite of supper with my aunt Helen .
JACK: Oh , well , I suppose
DAVID: How about if I promise to have her in by eleven thirty ?
JACK: Well , it 's Friday night . And if you 're going out to the West End
DAVID: Thanks , Jack . I appreciate it . See you again .
MARJORIE: Have a nice time .
JENNY: Bye . Jenny and David leave .
JACK: What 's that smell ? Has he got perfume on ?
MARJORIE: It 's called after-shave , Jack . And it makes a change from carbolic soap .
JACK: At least there 's no confusion , if you smell of carbolic soap . Marjorie rolls her eyes .
MARJORIE: Nobody 's ever going to get confused about you , dear .
DAVID: Hello hello . Are we late ?
HELEN: I was hoping we 'd miss the eginning , and then it would n't e worth going in , and we could go off dancing or something .
DANNY: Helen is one of the more eluctant members of tonight 's audience . Jenny and David laugh politely .
DAVID: Jenny , these are my friends Helen and Danny .
HELEN: Look . We can leave our coats over there . I want to get rid of this .
JENNY: I 'm so sorry .
HELEN: That 's OK . It 's nice , is n't it ?
JENNY: It 's beautiful . Where did it come from ?
HELEN: Oh , South Ken somewhere .
JENNY: Thank you .
HELEN: We should go shopping togethe one day , if you want . She takes a ticket from the cloakroom lady .
JENNY: That would be nice . But South Ken C'est beaucoup trop che pour moi .
HELEN: Sorry ?
JENNY: I just said.It was too expensive for me .
HELEN: No you did n't . You said something completely different .
JENNY: I justWell , I said it in French .
HELEN: In French ? Why ?
JENNY: I do n't know .
HELEN: Anyway . It 's too expensive fo me , too . We do n't have to worry about that . If you want something in South Ken , get David to take you shopping .
JENNY: Why on earth would he want to take me shopping ?
DAVID: I booked a table at Juliette 's . Will that kill the mood , do you think ?
HELEN: Oh , I do hope so . The others laugh .
DANNY: Yes . Very classical . As classical as you can get . Helen looks pleased .
DAVID: Juliette 's it is , then . Heaven forbid that we should end the evening reflecting on our own mortality .
DANNY: Oh , it 's wonderful .
JENNY: I 've only got.Well , I think it 's just called ` Juliette Greco ' . The one with the eyes on the sleeve . I saved up and got my French conversation teacher to ing it back after Christmas .
HELEN: You 've got a French conversation teacher ?
JENNY: Yes .
HELEN: Is that why you suddenly speak French for no reason ?
DANNY: You must have seen her sing ?
DAVID: She 's marvellous .
DANNY: But you should see her in Paris , not here . David will take you .
DAVID: I 'd love to . You 'd fit right in .
HELEN: Better than here , really .
DAVID: It 's wonderful to find a young person who wants to know things . There 's so much I want you to see .
DANNY: Oh . No . Ca n't do it . There 's a Burne-Jones coming up at Christie 's on Friday . And I want it .
JENNY: You 're thinking of buying a Burne- Jones ? A real one ?
DANNY: I just have a feeling that the pre-Raphaelites are going to take off .
JENNY: I love the pre-Raphaelites .
DAVID: Do you ?
JENNY: Yes , of course . Rossetti and Burne-Jones , anyway . Not Holman Hunt , so much . He 's so garish .
DAVID: Absolutely ! Why do n't we all go to the auction ? Would n't that be fun ?
JENNY: An auction . Gosh . How exciting .
DANNY: Next Friday morning . David will pick you up .
JENNY: Oh . Friday .
DANNY: You 're busy ?
JENNY: Well . Yes . She does n't want to explain why .
DANNY: Tant pis .
DAVID: Are you sure you 're busy ? Jenny hesitates .
JENNY: No . I 'm sure I could.re- arrange . That would be lovely .
MARJORIE: Oh , hello , love . Did you have a nice time ?
JENNY: What are you doing ?
MARJORIE: I ca n't get this casserole dish clean . We had hot-pot tonight , and it 's all burnt round
JENNY: It 's twenty-five to twelve . We finish tea at seven .
MARJORIE: I know what the time is . How was your evening ?
JENNY: It wasIt was the best night of my life .
MARJORIE: And he took you home in his car ? Right to the door ?
JENNY: Goodnight , Mum .
MARJORIE: And I 'm glad you enjoyed the concert .
TINA: I 'm not interested in Schubert . I want to know what else was on the programme . Laughter .
JENNY: There was nothing like that . He was the perfect gentleman . He just said he wanted to take me places and show me things .
TINA: Things plural ? Oh my Gawd !
MISS STUBBS: I knew that in the end ` Jane Eyre ' would work its magic upon you . I 'm presuming that 's what you 're so animated about .
JENNY: Of course .
TINA: ` Jane Eyre ' and Jenny 's new oyfriend .
JENNY: He 's not my `` new boyfriend '' . God .
TINA: It 's true . He 's more a man- friend , is n't he ? He 's got a sports-car , Miss Stubbs .
MISS STUBBS: Ah . A Mr Rochester figure .
TINA: I think he must be as blind as M Rochester . Laughter . Jenny pulls a face at her .
MISS STUBBS: Is there no end to your thirst for literary understanding , Jenny ? As you may have noticed , I 'm attempting to turn the subject away from Jenny 's lurid love-life and towards the matte in hand . She starts to hand out essays .
JENNY: How do you know Danny ?
DAVID: Oh , you know . We kept bumping into each other , and we became pals , and we 've ended up doing a it of work together , when it suits us .
JENNY: What kind of work ?
DAVID: Property . A bit of art dealing . Some buying and selling . This and that He stops the car .
JENNY: How do you know those , those Negro people ?
DAVID: They 're clients .
JENNY: Clients ?
DAVID: Jenny darling , even schwarzers have to live somewhere . And it 's not as if they can rent off thei own kind , is it ? He starts the car and drives off .
JENNY: I 'm not sure I quite understand what you do .
DAVID: You do n't need to . It 's too oring . All you need to know is that I work in property so that I can take you to nice places .
DANNY: You nearly missed it .
AUCTIONEER: We turn to lot 41 , The Tree of Forgiveness , by Sir Edward Burne- Jones . This is a rare opportunity to purchase a key work of the Pre- Raphaelite movement . Who will start me off at five hundred guineas ?
DAVID: Your turn . Jenny looks at him .
AUCTIONEER: No further bids ?
DAVID: Quick !
AUCTIONEER: Five hundred guineas from the very eager new bidder .
DANNY: You know who you are .
JENNY: Jenny Mellor .
DANNY: I know who you are , too . Tell him .
JENNY: Jenny Mellor .
DANNY: Thank you . Could n't have bought it without you .
DAVID: Well done . A nerveless performance . Jenny beams . She 's thrilled .
DANNY: A couple of years ago you could pick these up for fifty quid , you know . Nobody was interested .
JENNY: Really ? Fifty pounds ? I do n't elieve you .
DANNY: There are n't many people who come in here and say that .
HELEN: Certainly not me .
JENNY: It 's beautiful . Do you play ?
DANNY: I used to . I vowed to myself that one day I 'd own one of these . And now I own one and never touch it . It 's vulgar to put it on show , eally .
HELEN: Give it to Jenny .
DANNY: That would be even more vulgar .
DAVID: Play for us , Jenny .
JENNY: Gosh , no . One day . When I 'm good enough for it .
DAVID: She 's good enough now .
JENNY: Oh , David . You 've never heard me . Danny stands up and stretches .
DAVID: I shall come to hear you in St John 's Smith Square . Or in Oxford , when you get there .
DANNY: We should all go and spend a weekend in Oxford . Straw boaters , punting , cream teas , antiquarian ookshops . Bit of business , if we can find it . What about next weekend ?
JENNY: A weekend away ? I would n't be allowed to do that . They all look at her .
DAVID: I 'll find a way . I 'll talk to them .
JENNY: Who ?
DAVID: Jack and Marjorie .
JENNY: About what ?
DAVID: Oxford . Jenny hoots with derision .
JENNY: You 're going to ask my father if I can go away with you for the weekend ? He 'd have you arrested .
DAVID: We 'll see .
JENNY: I 'll bet you you ca n't do it .
DAVID: How much ?
DANNY: Be careful , Jenny . You do n't know who you 're dealing with .
JENNY: Half-a-crown .
DAVID: You 're on .
JENNY: Mon dieu ! You must take me back to school . And I 've got to change ack into my uniform .
HELEN: Oh , behave yourselves . Jenny looks at them all , mystified .
MRS WILSON: Test results for the Virgil translation . We will start from the bottomPatricia . Jenny puffs out her cheeks . She 's not last .
MARJORIE: I 'll talk to him .
JACK: It 's her Latin , is n't it ?
MARJORIE: The test didn'tWell , it did n't go as well as we 'd hoped . He picks up the paper .
JACK: And you still say I should n't go down there and have it out with whatsername ? The Latin teacher ? Because this is hopeless .
JENNY: How are you going to `` have it out '' with her ? What are you going to do ? Shout at her until she decides I 'm much cleverer than she thinks ?
MARJORIE: Everyone 's doing their best , Jack .
JACK: What if their best is n't good enough , though , eh ? What do we do then ?
JENNY: We do n't go to Oxford . Any of us . Not even you , Dad .
JACK: Perhaps it 's all a waste of time and money anyway .
MARJORIE: You do n't mean that .
JACK: Well , what 's she going to do with an English degree ? And if she 's going to spend three years playing that bloody cello and talking in French to beatniks , then I 'm throwing good money after bad . I suppose she might meet a nice lawyer . But she could do that at a dinner dance tomorrow .
JENNY: Oh , yes . That 's the whole point of an Oxford education . It 's the expensive alternative to a dinne dance .
MARJORIE: What about private tuition ?
JACK: Is anyone listening to me ? How much is that going to cost me ?
MARJORIE: Five shillings an hour . Maybe a little more for A-level .
JACK: Five bob ! But we could spend five bob on this and five bob on that , and before we know it that 's our savings down the drain .
MARJORIE: And what else are we spending five bob on ? What else are we spending sixpence on ?
JACK: Oh , nothing . It 's all free . That vase was free .
MARJORIE: It was , actually . It was a present from Auntie Vi .
JACK: That chair was free . The sofa . We do n't have to pay fo anything . And even if we did , we do n't have to work for it . That 's the beauty of life , Jenny . Everything 's free . Grows on trees . Wonderful , is n't it ? We 've got a lovely Oxford tree in the garden , lucky for you , so that 's Oxford taken care of . And a whole orchard of school trees , so that 's all free . I 'm sure there are some private tuition trees out there . I 'll go and have a look . He stands up .
MARJORIE: Jack
JACK: No , no , wo n't take me a minute . I think I saw some at the back there , right next to the pocket money tree . I 'll just nip out and check , see that they 're doing all right .
TINA: You could always go to secretarial college with Hattie .
JENNY: Oh , thanks .
HATTIE: Charming !
JENNY: Oh , no .
GRAHAM: Hello .
JENNY: Oh . Graham . Hello .
GRAHAM: I have n't seen you for ages.It all went wrong , did n't it ? The tea-party , I mean . Was it because of the year off ?
JENNY: No , no . It 's justI 've got so much to do if I 'm going to get the grades I need .
TINA: Yes . She 's got no time for boys .
JENNY: Bye , Graham . She follows the girls inside .
JACK: Oh . Hello . David does the most illiant Bluebottle , Jenny . Actually , he can do all the Goons .
DAVID: I do n't think I 'm very good at Eccles .
JACK: Oh , no , you 've got him
JENNY: But what 's he doing here ?
DAVID: I was n't going to disturb you . I knew you 'd have your nose to the grindstone .
JENNY: You came to see Mum and Dad ?
JACK: Is that so hard to imagine ?
JENNY: And you 're drinking ? But it 's not Christmas !
JACK: Hark at her ! Makes us sound as though we 've signed the pledge . You do n't know everything about us , you know . We had a life efore you came along .
JENNY: Yes , that 's true . I 'm only going on what I 've seen over the last sixteen years .
MARJORIE: I 'm trying to think what you missed . Nothing much comes to mind .
JACK: They ca n't stand to see me enjoying myself .
JENNY: Anyway . Would you excuse me ? I 've got a huge pile of Latin translation to do .
JACK: You did n't tell me David went to Oxford .
JENNY: No . I did n't .
DAVID: For all the good it did me .
JACK: What did you read ?
DAVID: Oh , English . Just like every other semi-employed layabout in London .
JACK: English ! Which college ?
DAVID: Merton .
MARJORIE: Is n't that funny ?
JENNY: Extraordinary .
DAVID: I was just telling Jack that I 'm going back next weekend . I go and see my old professor every now and again .
JACK: That 's what you need , Jenny . Someone on the inside track . It 's not always what you know , is it , David ?
DAVID: Too true . And Clive would love Jenny . Have you ever come across Clive Lewis ?
JENNY: Dad has never come across anyone .
DAVID: I just thought he might know some of the books .
JENNY: Dad has never read any books .
JACK: What 's he written ?
DAVID: He wrote a children 's book called ` The Lion , The Witch and The Wardrobe ' that did very well , I elieve .
MARJORIE: CS Lewis ? That 's the Clive you 're talking about ?
DAVID: Well , to us he was just the old codger who taught Medieval literature . But I came to know him very well . We justgot along , do you know what I mean ? Everyone murmurs their comprehension .
MARJORIE: Jenny used to love those books .
DAVID: Gosh . That dates me . He was writing them when I was there .
JENNY: I 'd love to meet him .
DAVID: I 'm sorry . I 'm being slow on the uptake . Would Jenny like to come with me at the weekend ?
JACK: Well , I do n't know about this weekend . But one day , yes , thank you .
JENNY: How often do you see him ?
DAVID: Oh , once every couple of years . But next time , eh ?
JENNY: Hopefully I 'll be there by then . So that wo n't be much use .
JACK: Well , I supposeWould she have to stay the night ?
DAVID: Well , I would n't want to drive ack after one of those Oxford dinners . Jack chuckles knowingly .
MARJORIE: Sounds like too good an opportunity to pass up .
JENNY: Please , Daddy . It would be so helpful to know something about the place .
JACK: Would it be a bother to you , David ?
DAVID: I 'd be delighted . Jack , Marjorie and Jenny all beam .
JENNY: That was scandalous .
DAVID: I told you . You owe me half-a- crown .
HELEN: Nearly ready !
DAVID: How can they only be nearly eady ?
DANNY: I would n't be surprised if three of them come out , you know . That 's the only explanation . They 're making themselves a friend . LADIES ! Let 's go . Please .
HELEN: There . You 'll do . You can keep it . I can only wear so many every day . Jenny emerges from her reverie .
JENNY: Really ? Thank you .
HELEN: What about tonight ? Will you be needing a nightie ? Or not ?
JENNY: A nightie ? Jenny suddenly understands what Helen means .
HELEN: You 're not sleeping with him ?
JENNY: No . I'mNo .
HELEN: Good for you .
JENNY: Really ? Do you think so ?
HELEN: You 're only sixteen . And you do n't want to get into the family way , do you ?
JENNY: Oh , I 'd make sure that did n't happen . I 'm going to do it when I 'm seventeen . On my seventeenth irthday , hopefully .
HELEN: With David ? Jenny pauses .
JENNY: WellGolly . I suppose it will e with David , wo n't it ?
HELEN: When 's your birthday ?
JENNY: April .
HELEN: Oh , he 'll be around in April . If that 's what you want . Anyway . I 'll find you a nightie . Jenny stares at herself in the mirror again .
DANNY: Shall , we , ah Make a move ?
HELEN: I know .
JENNY: Can we stop ?
DAVID: Maybe later . There are a couple of things we have to do .
HELEN: Oh , it 's always like this . There are millions of places I 've neve seen because I 've been stuck in here .
JENNY: You never get out ?
HELEN: There 's never anywhere to go in the places they stop .
DAVID: So . Now.Is he Clive , do you think ? Or CS ?
HELEN: I 'm confused now . I thought you 'd made him up ?
DANNY: No , weNever mind .
DAVID: There . He stands up , hands the book to Jenny .
JENNY: `` To dear Jenny . With the pleasure of meeting you . Come and see me again soon . Clive . ''
HELEN: Dirty old man .
DAVID: Well , if you look at it that wayI mean , that 's prope scientific analysis . And you ca n't argue with science . Helen looks pleased .
HELEN: I 'm still not quite clear on what you want to do when you get here .
JENNY: I want to read English .
HELEN: Books ?
JENNY: Sorry ?
HELEN: You want to read English books ?
JENNY: Oh . Yes . Reading English is just another way of saying
DANNY: I would n't worry , Jenny . You 're wasting your breath .
DAVID: Anyway , tomorrow we 'll try to get more of a feel for the place .
DANNY: Absolutely . This would be a good place to do a little business .
JENNY: Please explain what stats are . You 're always going on about them .
DAVID: All right . Think of a number . Now think about the most boring lesson you 've ever had at school .
JENNY: We 've got exactly the same curtains at home .
DAVID: Let 's not talk about curtains . You look beautiful . You really are a princess .
JENNY: There 's something you should know , David . I'mWell , I 'm a virgin . And I want to stay that way until I 'm seventeen .
DAVID: I think that 's good . I think that 's right . And for you seventeenth birthday I 'm going to take you to Paris or Rome o Florence and make you feel like the most beautiful princess in the kingdom of love . But we can still be romantic , ca n't we ?
JENNY: Well , yes . Of course we can . If it does n't mean
DAVID: Minnie .
JENNY: Is that me ?
DAVID: Yes . You 're my Minnie Mouse , and I 'm your bubbalub .
JENNY: Oh . If that 's what..
DAVID: Minnie .
JENNY: Yes , David ?
DAVID: Bubbalub
JENNY: Sorry . Yes , bubbalub ?
DAVID: Would you mind if I had a look at what might one day be mine ? Just a peek ?
JENNY: You just want to see them ?
DAVID: I just want to see them .
HELEN: Jenny Jenny turns around .
JENNY: Are n't you coming ?
HELEN: We do n't go in .
JENNY: What are you talking about ?
DANNY: Helen will look after you . Go and find a nice cup of tea somewhere . Jenny is mystified .
JENNY: I do n't need looking after , thank you very much . David , I want to see David ignores her .
DANNY: I 'm not going to tell you a second time . Now . Run along .
HELEN: They wo n't be long . Either way .
JENNY: `` Either way '' ?
HELEN: Sometimes they find something , sometimes they do n't .
DANNY: Sorry about being a little brisk ack there , Jenny . We have ou way of doing things . Silly , eally . Still no response .
DAVID: Oh , come on , Jenny . Let 's not spoil things .
JENNY: Me ? I 'm spoiling things ?
DAVID: I think there must be some kind of misunderstanding .
DANNY: Who wants to come up for a drink ?
DAVID: Jenny ?
JENNY: No thanks . You go . I 'll find my own way home .
DAVID: Jenny ! He catches up with her in the street .
JENNY: Liberated ! That 's one word fo it .
DAVID: Oh , do n't be bourgeois , Jenny . You 're better than that . I know you have fun with us . I can see it . You drink everything I put in front of you down in one , every last drop , and then you slam you glass down on the bar and ask fo more , and it 's wonderful . We 're not clever like you , so we have to be clever in other ways , ecause if we were n't , there would be no fun .
JENNY: Gosh . Yes . Loads . Thank you . I had a nice time .
DAVID: Really ? In spite of the , the incident ? With the map ?
JENNY: As you said in the car , it was a misunderstanding .
DAVID: Exactly . A muddle .
JENNY: You have no idea how boring everything was before I met you .
DAVID: I hope that there 's something more than excitement to ou elationship .
JENNY: Excitement 's a lot , when you 're at school and you live in Twickenham .
DAVID: You know what I 'm trying to say . I want you to like me for who I am , not just what I can do fo you .
JENNY: But that is who you are . I 've never met anyone like you . Action is character , our English teache says .
DAVID: What does that mean ?
JENNY: I think it means that if we neve did anything , we would n't be anybody . And I never did anything efore I met you . And sometimes I think no-one 's ever done anything in this stupid country , apart from you .
DAVID: That 's a good place to end the weekend . I 'll give you a tinkle .
JENNY: Thank you .
JACK: Here she is ! The wandere eturns !
MARJORIE: Did you have a nice time ?
JENNY: Lovely , thank you .
JACK: Was he nice to you ?
JENNY: Look inside . Jack examines the inscription .
JACK: Well I never . Look at this , Marjorie .
MARJORIE: `` Clive '' Lucky girl . What was he like ?
JENNY: He was justnormal . Kind .
MARJORIE: And did he show you round ?
JENNY: Oh , he was busy . David did , though .
MARJORIE: What did you think ?
JENNY: Beautiful .
MARJORIE: Did it make you want to work harder ?
JACK: Never a dull moment with David , is there ? If it 's not concerts , it 's famous authors . Bit different from that lad you ought home for tea , is n't he ?
MARJORIE: David 's a lot older than Graham .
JACK: Graham could live to be two hundred , and he still would n't be swanning around with famous authors . Has n't got it in him .
JENNY: He might become a famous author , for all you know .
JACK: Being one is n't the same as knowing one , is it ? Anyone can be one . But if you move in those circles
JENNY: What ?
JACK: Well , it says something about you , does n't it ? It says you 're going places . It says you 're well connected . He 's an impressive young man , that David . I like him more and more .
MARJORIE: Well , they say opposites attract , do n't they ? I would n't have thought he was your sort .
JACK: He was n't . And now he is .
MARJORIE: Is that how you feel , Jenny ?
JENNY: I feel.I Feel I should do my homework .
GYM TEACHER: Ladies , please . Christmas is coming .
HATTIE: What the hell are those ?
JENNY: Russian Sobranies .
HATTIE: Where did they come from ?
TINA: She might have bought them from the Savoy , or Claridges , or the opera , or some fancy nightclub . Who knows , with Jenny ?
JENNY: Paris . You ca n't buy them here .
TINA: You never bought them yourself ?
JENNY: No . I never .
TINA: Shut up , you stuck-up cow .
JENNY: But I 'll bring you some back , if you want .
TINA: You 're joking .
JENNY: Non .
HATTIE: He 's taking you to Paris ?
JENNY: Oui .
HATTIE: This term ?
JENNY: Peut-etre .
TINA: Is n't it your birthday next Tuesday ?
JENNY: Might be . The two friends shriek and jump up and down .
HATTIE: Oh , my God ! Your birthday !
TINA: I would n't like to be you . All those dinners you 've had off him . Ouch .
JENNY: You have such a Victorian attitude to sex , you two .
TINA: Oh , sorry , Dr Kinsey . We 're not all as experienced as you . I mean , you 've done it I make it never ! Can that be right ?
HATTIE: But your parents are just going to let you swan off like that ?
JENNY: They do n't know yet . David 's got a plan , he says . He usually has something up his sleeve .
TINA: I 've noticed that . What did he tell them when you had you weekend in Oxford ?
JENNY: Oh , it was . David went to Oxford . Merton . English . And he offered to show me round .
HATTIE: So you have a good-looking oyfriend with pots of money , ains and a nice car .
JENNY: Apparently I do . Tina makes a bitter face .
TINA: And they tell us there 's a God .
JENNY: Sod . Miss Davies .
JACK: Is David taking you somewhere special tonight ?
JENNY: Not that I know of .
MARJORIE: I 've asked Graham round for tea and birthday cake .
JENNY: Graham ?
JACK: What do we want him round for ?
MARJORIE: I happened to be talking to his mother about something , and
JENNY: What did you happen to be talking to her about ?
MARJORIE: I thought it would be nice .
JENNY: What if David turns up ?
MARJORIE: Are we expecting David to turn up ? Jenny shrugs .
JACK: It might not be a bad thing if he did .
MARJORIE: Really ?
JACK: Well , if you think about it , there 's more than one way of skinning a cat .
JENNY: And who 's the skinned cat , in this enchanting image ? Me ?
JACK: No , of course
JENNY: I have an education to pursue .
JACK: Blow them out , then , before the whole place burns down .
MARJORIE: Who 'd like a piece ?
GRAHAM: Never mind . I 'll have one of those .
JACK: Come on . Presents .
JENNY: Oh . Thank you . I needed a new one .
GRAHAM: Oh dear .
DAVID: It 's a special day .
JACK: She 's a special girl .
DAVID: Oh , I know it . Hello , young man .
JENNY: This is Graham .
DAVID: Graham , a pleasure . I 'm David .
JACK: Makes your dictionary look a bit feeble , eh Graham ? Graham looks pained . Marjorie notices .
MARJORIE: And ours too , come to that .
JACK: Well , we 're not the ones trying to impress her .
JENNY: Clearly .
JACK: David , what can I get you to drink ?
DAVID: What 's everybody else having ? What have you got there , Graham ?
JACK: I 've given him a glass of pop .
GRAHAM: I 'd better be going I have a stack of homework to do .
DAVID: Yes . Well . You can put the pop away now . What is there for the grown-ups ?
JACK: A glass of something warming ?
DAVID: You know me so well . Hearty laughter from the two men .
JENNY: Can I open anything yet ? Marjorie comes back into the room .
MARJORIE: Wait for me .
DAVID: Before you start on that little lot , I have a surprise . Next weekend , we 're all going to Chez Georges to celebrate Jenny 's irthday .
JACK: Lovely .
DAVID: Chez Georges is in the Boulevard St Germain . In Paris .
JACK: How d'you mean , Paris ?
JENNY: You know the one , Dad .
JACK: But..We have n't got any French money . And I 'm not sureI just do n't think it would agree with me .
JENNY: Dad !
JACK: They do n't like us , the French , you know . John Sutton at work went once . They were very rude to him . I 'm not sure I 'd like that .
JENNY: You 've just said you do n't like Europe . What 's going to change ? It 'll have to be Europe , wo n't it ? Because it is n't going to be you .
MARJORIE: I can take her .
JACK: To France ? And leave me here on my own ?
JENNY: Oh , for God 's sake .
DAVID: Listen , I 'm really sorry to have caused all this to-do . I just thought it might be nice . But I 'll go with Aunt Helen and Uncle Daniel . They can have you tickets . Jack looks at him .
JACK: Aunt Helen ? The one who went to the concert with you ?
DAVID: Yes , that 's the one .
JACK: Well , there we are .
DAVID: Where are we ?
JACK: Aunt Helen ! Do n't you see ? If Aunt Helen 's going to be there
DAVID: Of course !
JACK: I did n't want to put a spoke in anyone 's wheels . But if you look at it from my angleA bachelor , taking my daughter off to Paris
DAVID: Oh , impossible . I had n't thought it through properly . I do apologise , Jack . Would you prefe it if Helen took Jenny on he own ? I do n't mind . I 've been to Paris before .
JACK: Oh , I could n't possibly askNo , no . If Aunt Helen 's going
TINA: There are some things you must uy for us , and some things you only have to buy for us if you 're a proper , true friend . Chanel perfume , Chanel perfume . Chanel lipstick , Chanel lipstick . What have I forgotten ?
HATTIE: Those funny cigarettes you were smoking . Sobranies . Ten packets each .
SMALL GIRL: Are you the girl going to Paris ? Tina , Hattie and Jenny stare at her .
MISS STUBBS: Jenny , the headmistress would like a word at the end of the lesson . I 'm afraid that the legend of Mr Rochester may have travelled further than you intended .
HEADMISTRESS: Come . Jenny enters , looking young and frightened .
JENNY: Can I go now ?
HEADMISTRESS: Please .
JENNY: There 's no bed .
DAVID: Ah . I pushed the boat out and got us a suite .
JENNY: A suite !
DAVID: Well , if work stops us getting to Paris until tomorrow , then work can buy us a nice hotel room . Anyway , it 's a special occasion , is n't it ?
JENNY: I would have thought that tonight of all nights we only need a edroom .
DAVID: Hold on a second . I 've got something .
JENNY: What on earth is that for ?
DAVID: I thought.I thought we might want to practice . Jenny shrieks with horror .
JENNY: With a banana ?
DAVID: I thought we 'd get the messy bit over with first .
JENNY: David , I do n't want to lose my virginity to a piece of fruit .
DAVID: I 'm sorry .
JENNY: Let 's wait until we get to Paris . I think the moment might have gone .
DAVID: I 'm sorry , Minnie . I 'm such a fool . Jenny does n't deny it .
JENNY: And David.. if tomorrow night does happen , it will never happen again , so
DAVID: Why wo n't it ever happen again ?
JENNY: Because the first time can only happen once .
DAVID: Oh .
JENNY: So , pleaseNo Minnies . No baby- talk . I 'm not old enough for baby- talk . Treat me like a grown-up . David looks chastened .
DAVID: Hooray ! I 'll order some champagne .
JENNY: Not after thefirst bit . It 's funny , though , is n't it ? All that poetry , and all those songs and films , about something that lasts no time at all ?
TINA: How can you go back to double French when you 've had a weekend with an older man in a posh hotel in Paris ? You would n't catch me coming anywhere near this dump .
JENNY: It was n't all glamour . We spent half the weekend at Heathrow in a hotel suite .
HATTIE: A suite ? Oh my God . Your life . They smoke their Sobranies ruminatively .
TINA: You 're going to miss it . All the swanning around in posh hotels .
JENNY: Why will I need to miss it ?
TINA: When you go to Oxford . Unless you 're planning on being with David forever . Jenny does n't say anything .
HATTIE: You 're not , are you ?
JENNY: God , no .
TINA: So ? Wo n't you miss it ?
HATTIE: We 'll miss it .
MISS STUBBS: Jenny , could I have a word ?
JENNY: Of course . I 'll catch you up . Miss Stubbs waits until the room empties .
MISS STUBBS: You can do anything you want , Jenny . You know that . You 're clever and you 're pretty But sometimes those things fight . I 'm worried that at the moment cleve Jenny and pretty Jenny are fighting .
JENNY: What do you mean ?
MISS STUBBS: I could n't bear it if cleve Jenny lost . It 's because of people like you that I plough through illiterate essays by Sandra Lovell about her pony . And there are n't many of you , I can tell you . One every few years . Is your boyfriend interested in clever Jenny ?
JENNY: I think so .
MISS STUBBS: Interested enough to let her do what she wants ?
JENNY: He could n't stop me .
MISS STUBBS: He might not have to stop you . That 's what I 'm trying to tell you .
JENNY: I 'm not sure what you 're trying to tell me .
MISS STUBBS: I 'm telling you to go to Oxford . No matter what . Or you 'll break my heart . Jenny looks at her .
JENNY: Where did you go ?
MISS STUBBS: Sorry ?
JENNY: Where did you go ? Which university ?
MISS STUBBS: Girton . Cambridge .
JENNY: Oh .
MISS STUBBS: What does that mean ? ` Oh ' ?
JENNY: You 're clever . And you 're pretty . So presumably , Clever Miss Stubbs won . And here you are , reading all those pony essays . I do n't know . These last few months , I 've een to Paris , and to jazz clubs , and I 've eaten in wonderful estaurants , and seen wonderful films , heard beautiful music
MISS STUBBS: I 'm sure you have . But I was filled up with beautiful things , ooks and music and conversation , in exactly the same way at Cambridge . And I did n't have to pay the same sort of price . Are you taking precautions , Jenny ? Jenny stares at her angrily .
JENNY: It 's nothing to do with that .
MISS STUBBS: Is n't it ?
JENNY: Maybe our lives are always going to end up with pony essays . O housework . And yes , maybe we 'll go up to Oxford . But if we 're all going to die the moment we graduate , maybe it 's what we do efore that counts .
MISS STUBBS: I 'm sorry you think I 'm dead .
JENNY: I do n't think you 're dead . But
MISS STUBBS: You 'd better get to your next class . She turns her back on Jenny .
JENNY: And we know the person who owns this ?
DAVID: Yes . Perec Rachman . He 's a .
DANNY: A bastard . Danny and David laugh .
DAVID: He 's a business acquaintance , and we need to talk to him .
JENNY: I gathered that much . But why do we have to crawl around the West End looking for his car ? Why do n't you just make an appointment , if you want to see him ?
DANNY: What ? Ring his office ? Talk to his secretary ? That is n't how it works with him , dear .
DAVID: A bottle of champagne , please .
DANNY: Oh-ho . Champagne , eh ? He looks at Jenny and David expectantly .
DAVID: Do n't be bashful .
HELEN: No . Be Sneezy . Everyone ignores her .
DAVID: All right , then . If you wo n't tell them I will . Jenny got two As and a B in her mock-A levels .
DANNY: Fantastic .
HELEN: Congratulations .
JENNY: Thank you .
DAVID: The B was in Latin . But it 's much etter than it was , is n't it , Minnie ?
HELEN: Do n't worry .
JENNY: About what ?
HELEN: Someone told me that in fifty years no-one will speak Latin , probably . Not even Latin people . So you should n't mind too much about your B .
DANNY: Well , I 'm not sure you 'd want him to marry your sister . I 'm not even sure you 'd want to talk to him in a night-club , come to that .
DAVID: This is the one , Danny .
DANNY: We 've heard that before .
DAVID: You can see she 's different . She 's got everything . You 've got Helen , and .
DANNY: And you 've got Helen with brains .
DAVID: Yes .
DANNY: I do n't want to see her hurt . They make their way back to their table .
JENNY: Have youHave you bought any more paintings recently ?
DANNY: Have I ? Let 's think ? Oh , I picked up a little Piper the other day . A good ` un , I think .
JENNY: I 'm still trying to work out what makes good things good . It 's hard , is n't it ?
DANNY: The thing is , Jenny , you know , without necessarily being able to explain why . You 've got taste . That 's not even half the attle . That 's the whole war .
DAVID: Jenny , we should go . It 's late .
JENNY: Oh . Yes .
DANNY: Alas . One day , school will be over forever , and we can talk about art all night .
DAVID: You 're all right in a taxi , are n't you ? He guides Jenny firmly out of the club .
JENNY: What are you doing ?
DAVID: Will you marry me ?
JENNY: What were you looking for ?
DAVID: I thought I had a ring . It would n't have been the right one . But it would have done fo tonight .
JENNY: Oh , David .
DAVID: I 'm serious .
JENNY: You 're very sweet .
DAVID: What do you think ?
JENNY: Please take me home .
TINA: How do you say ` A penny for you thoughts ? ' in French ?
HATTIE: A franc is too much , is n't it ?
TINA: For her thoughts , yes . You 'd be overpaying by about ninety-nine centimes .
HEADMISTRESS: I 'm surprised that you two are standing in front of me . I 'm not surprised to find you here , Miss Mellor , though I do feel rathe like the judge who sent Al Capone to prison for tax evasion . We take a very dim view of smoking . We take an even dimmer view of some of your other behaviour , which as far as we know has taken place off school premises . You appearance here today , however , allows me to remind you that we are trying to teach you how to ecome young ladies , not nightclub hostesses . In reality , of course , you are neither . You are merely silly little girls . Detention after school . Go away .
JACK: Oh , aye . The potting shed . Who does he think I am ? Prince Rainier of Monaco ?
JENNY: What if I got married instead of going to college ?
JACK: Married ?
JENNY: Married .
JACK: It would depend who it was , surely ?
JENNY: Would it ? That 's interesting .
JACK: Course it would . I would n't want you married off just for the sake of it .
JENNY: Thanks .
MARJORIE: Has somebody asked you ?
JENNY: Yes .
JACK: Who ? Marjorie rolls her eyes .
MARJORIE: What did you tell him ?
JENNY: Nothing yet .
JACK: David ?
JENNY: No . A man I just met walking his dog .
JACK: David 's asked you to marry him ? Bloody hell . Pardon my French .
MARJORIE: Do you have any choice ? Or is it too late .
JACK: Of course she 's got a choice . But it 's an interesting one , is n't it ?
JENNY: This is where you 're supposed to say , `` But what about Oxford ? ''
JACK: Well . Looked at it one way , you would n't really need to go now , would you ? He 's a man going places . And say what you like , ut they know how to take care of their money , do n't they ? He 'll see you 're looked after .
JENNY: I would n't need to go . Would you like to expand on that ?
JACK: You know what I mean . Jenny laughs bitterly . She ca n't believe it .
JENNY: All that Latin ! All those essays ! What was the point ? Why did n't you just send me out prowling ound nightclubs ? It would have een less trouble . And I might have had more fun .
JACK: We do n't know about nightclubs . We knew about education . Anyway , it all turned out for the best .
JENNY: How ?
JACK: He would n't have wanted you if you were thick , would he ? Jenny stares at them and walks out .
GIRL 1: May not an ass know when the cart draws the horse ? Sings whoop jug I love thee .
MISS STUBBS: Yes , when it says ` Sings ' , it means he sings those words . Girl 1 looks at her blankly .
ANN: Does any here know me . This is not Lear . Does Lear walk thus ?
TINA: No . Jenny starts to giggle .
ANN: Speak thus ? Tina shakes her head .
JENNY: Ooh . Miss . Me . I can .
MISS STUBBS: Oh , Jenny .
JENNY: What ?
MISS STUBBS: Take it off .
HATTIE: Oh my God . Is that really what I think it is ? I 'M GOING TO BE A
MISS STUBBS: You know there 's a school rule about jewelry .
JENNY: Half the girls in this room are wearing jewelry .
MISS STUBBS: Yes . But none of it is going to uin their lives .
JENNY: We have a difference of opinion on that .
MISS STUBBS: Let 's see who 's right . Come with me . Jenny does n't move .
HEADMISTRESS: How far advanced are these idiculous plans ? Have you set a date ? Have you decided on a church ?
JENNY: We wo n't be getting married in a church . David 's Jewish . The headmistress stares at her , dumbfounded .
HEADMISTRESS: Jewish ? He 's a Jew ? You 're aware , I take it , that the Jews killed our Lord ?
JENNY: And you 're aware , I suppose , that our Lord was Jewish ? The headmistress snorts scornfully
HEADMISTRESS: I suppose he told you that . We 're all very sorry about what happened in the War . But there 's no excuse for that sort of malicious and untruthful propaganda . Jenny smiles to herself .
JENNY: Yes , that 's right .
HEADMISTRESS: What do you think you 're doing ?
JENNY: Nobody has been able to explain to me the point of University .
HEADMISTRESS: Nobody does anything worth doing without a degree .
JENNY: And nobody does anything worth doing with one , either . No woman , anyway .
HEADMISTRESS: So what I do is n't worth doing . Or what Miss Stubbs does , or Mrs Wilson , or any of us here .
JENNY: Boring !
HEADMISTRESS: I 'm sorry ?
JENNY: Studying is hard and boring . Teaching is hard and boring . So you 're telling me to be bored , and then bored , and then finally ored again , this time for the est of my life . This whole stupid country is bored . There 's no life in it , or colour in it , or fun in it . It 's probably just as well that the Russians are going to drop a nuclear bomb on us any day now . So my choice is either to do something hard and oring , OR to marry my my Jew , and go to Paris and Rome and listen to jazz and read and eat good food in nice restaurants and have fun . It 's not enough to educate us any more , Mrs Walters . You 've got to tell us why you 're doing it .
HEADMISTRESS: Because without formal qualifications
JENNY: I do n't wish to be impertinent , Mrs Walters . But it is an argument worth rehearsing . You never know . Someone else might want to know what the point of it all is , one day . She leaves the office .
JACK: How d'you mean , left ? Jenny does n't answer .
JENNY: I 'm not sitting them .
JACK: What are we going to tell people ?
JENNY: Oh , telling people . I 'd forgotten that what we tell people is more important than anything .
JACK: All that
MARJORIE: Jack !
JACK: No . No need for Jack . She should hear it . All that money ! Do you know how much it 's cost me fo you to go through school and take no exams ?
JENNY: I 'm sure David will pay you back . Send him a bill . As you said , he would n't have wanted me if I was dim , so he should fork out . Just tell me why there 's a point in sitting my exams , and there 's no point in me going to University . Jack gapes at her . He 's floundering .
JACK: You know what your trouble is , do n't you ? You 're too clever by half .
JENNY: In which case I should have left school years ago , should n't I ? Ask them for the money back . If I 'm too clever by half , you overpaid by a third .
HELEN: That'sGosh . That 's fantastic news .
DANNY: Congratulations . There is much chinking of glasses .
HELEN: I thought you 'd see sense about university . Jenny smiles .
JENNY: Am I still allowed to read ?
HELEN: English ? Books ? More laughter .
JENNY: Danny did n't seem very pleased about our engagement .
DAVID: I thought that , too ! I was wondering whether he might be a it jealous .
JENNY: Jealous ?
DAVID: You may have noticed that Helen 's not really Oxford material . I 'm going to keep him out of you way .
JENNY: Where is the flat again ?
MARJORIE: You have to put the cosy on straight away .
JENNY: Like that ? David laughs .
MARJORIE: No . On the tea-pot .
JENNY: Ah . She puts the tea-cosy on the tea-pot .
DAVID: Just down from Russell Square . Two minutes ' walk from the underground .
MARJORIE: Jenny ! We could walk to We could walk to the British Museum ! Jenny gives her a look .
JENNY: And this is where you 're living ?
DAVID: I 've stayed there for the last couple of nights . On and off .
JENNY: You 've stayed there two nights `` on and off '' ?
DAVID: Is that tea ready ? One sugar , please .
JENNY: David !
DAVID: I 'm sorry . You must think I 'm very odd .
JENNY: No , but . You seem to float around . I never know where you are . She hands him his tea .
DAVID: A wandering Jew . If I tell you something , will you promise not to laugh ?
JENNY: It depends on how funny it is .
DAVID: I live at home .
JENNY: We all live at home .
DAVID: No . I meanI live at homein the same way that you live at home .
JENNY: But I live with my mother and fa You do n't mean it . David nods , shamefacedly .
DAVID: Just my mother . My father 's dead . I 've been meaning to tell you , Minnie , and it would have been much better than all those silly lies . But
JENNY: Did you do this one ? `` Show from any TWO scenes in ` Pride and Prejudice ' how far it is true that Jane Austen 's methods are ` essentially dramatic ' '' .
HATTIE: Three scenes .
JENNY: It says two here . Look .
HATTIE: Two . Two . Two . I ca n't believe it . Tina rubs Hattie 's head sympathetically .
TINA: It was an unfair question . You 're hopeless at maths . What do you do all day , anyway , Lady Muck ? Jenny shrugs .
JENNY: I 've been looking at flats . I 've een to look at dresses . I 've een reading a lot , too .
TINA: Reading , trying on dresses Where did we go wrong ?
JENNY: What 's this afternoon ?
TINA: French . The translation paper .
MARJORIE: Do n't worry . He 'll find a nice place in no time . He sees plenty of them .
JENNY: I 'm not sure he sees plenty of nice places . Would you like a radiogram for a wedding present ? We love ours .
MARJORIE: You wo n't be bored , you know . He 's not boring .
JACK: What sort of things can you have for starters ? I mean , how will I know what are starters and what are n't ? I 'm all right if it 's soup or fruit juice . But if it 's anything more than that
JENNY: We 've been through this , Dad . It 'll be quite clearly marked on the menu .
JACK: Why do n't you three go out ? I 'll e happy here with a tin of
DAVID: Everybody ready ? I think you 'll like this place , Jack . Their wine list is as good as anything I 've seen in London .
JACK: Someone told me that .
JENNY: David , probably . Who else would it have been ?
JACK: I was hoping you 'd take us in this .
DAVID: Oh , you wo n't want to go in anything else after tonight . Mind you , it drinks petrol . I 'm afraid we 'll have to stop on the way in to town .
JACK: I feel like Eamonn Andrews .
DAVID: Is that a good thing ?
MARJORIE: Of course . Eamonn Andrews is the poshest person that Jack can imagine being .
DAVID: Sorry about this . He slows the car and turns in to the garage .
ATTENDANT: How can I help you , sir ?
DAVID: You might as well fill her up .
JACK: Do you think we should offer him some petrol money ? Or would he feel insulted ?
DAVID: Jenny !
JENNY: Take us home .
JACK: What 's going on ?
DAVID: There 's been aJenny 's had a it of a shock .
JACK: What 's happened ?
JENNY: It 's another one of David 's little muddles and misunderstandings .
DAVID: Jenny , it 's not
JENNY: I do n't want to hear another word from anybody . Take me home . NOW .
JACK: You can sort this out , ca n't you , David ? Jenny gets out of the car too .
DAVID: Of course I can . She 's just got the wrong end of the stick about something .
JENNY: Go inside , Dad .
DAVID: Just let me
JENNY: You 're MARRIED !
DAVID: Legally , yes , but
JENNY: When were you going to tell me ?
DAVID: Soon . It just - it never seemed the right time . You seemed so happy , and I was happy , andIt would have spoiled everything . What can I do , Minnie ? What can I do ? How can
JENNY: `` Oh , Jenny . I 'm just too busy to find somewhere to liveI live with my mummy . '' You were living with your wife ! All this time !
DAVID: Jenny
JENNY: What 's your address ? David gestures vaguely .
DAVID: Byron Avenue .
JENNY: Byron Avenue ! It 's no wonder we kept bumping into each other , then , is it ? What number ?
DAVID: There 's no point..
DAVID: Seventeen .
JENNY: Good grief . It 's the truth .
DAVID: Please . You have to understand . I was with you just about all the spare time I had .
JENNY: Spare time ? Spare time ? I ca n't tell you how grateful I am .
DAVID: Do n't be like this .
JENNY: I have nothing . I left school . I did n't take my exams . Where 's it all gone , now ? I gave my life away .
DAVID: Jenny , I can get a divorce . Everything will turn out for the est . You 'll see .
JENNY: Go and tell them . Go and tell them , then go and tell your wife . I want to see you . I want to stand there and watch .
DAVID: They 're not going to listen to me now . Let me come round tomorrow . When everyone 's calmed down a it .
JENNY: Please do n't leave me to tell them on my own . Please . You owe me that much . You owe them that much .
DAVID: I owe them a lot more than that . I owe them everything . They gave me you .
JENNY: Two minutes . And then I 'll come out and drag you in .
JACK: What 's going on ?
JENNY: He 's helping himself to some Dutch courage before facing you . Stolen Dutch courage , from the look of it . He has something to tell you .
JACK: He just drove off .
WIFE: Oh . Hello .
JENNY: Hello . I 'm sorry . I think I must have the wrong house . The woman stares at her .
WIFE: Oh , no . Do n't tell me . Good God . You 're a child .
JENNY: I ca n't . But she does n't move , either .
WIFE: You did n't know about any of this . Presumably . Jenny shakes her head .
JENNY: She 's beautiful .
WIFE: Thank you . He . He 's four months old .
JENNY: Four months !
WIFE: Yes . Babies often are that sort of age . Perhaps you can remembe a night four months ago when he seemed a little distracted . Anyway . If you 'll excuse us .
MARJORIE: Did you see her ?
JENNY: I saw her . I did n't talk to her . There was n't any need .
JACK: Well we 've got to have this out . If you wo n't do it , I will . He starts for the door .
JENNY: Sit down .
JACK: I beg your pardon ? I 'm still you father , Jenny .
JENNY: Oh , you 're my father again , are you ? What were you when you encouraged me to throw my life away ? I 'm a silly schoolgirl . Was , anyway . Silly schoolgirls are always being seduced by glamorous older men . But what about you two ?
JACK: We did n't
JENNY: And now I 've got nothing . I'mI 'm broken . Jack looks at her .
JACK: That does n't mean.what I think it means , does it ? It ca n't .
JENNY: What are you talking about ?
JACK: Just tell me that you didn'tyou have n't , you knowYou did n't . Jenny looks at him in disbelief .
MARJORIE: I wondered how stupid you were . Now I know .
JACK: There 's a cup of tea for you here .
HELEN: I do n't really understand what difference it makes . When I found out that
DANNY: Helen ! Not now . Helen shrugs .
JENNY: It 's a funny world you people live in . You both watched me carrying on with a married man , ut you do n't think it 's worth saying anything .
DANNY: Ah , well if you want that sort of conversationYou watched David and I help ourselves to a map , and you did n't say much , either . He holds Jenny 's gaze . She looks away .
HEADMISTRESS: So . Your Jewish friend turned out to be married already , I understand . How unfortunate .
JENNY: I 'd like to repeat my last yea at school . Start all over again .
HEADMISTRESS: I got the impression the last time we spoke that you did n't see the point of school . Or of me , o of any of us here .
JENNY: I know . I was stupid .
HEADMISTRESS: So what is the point ?
JENNY: I know that I need to go to university .
HEADMISTRESS: And what happens if some othe chap wants to marry you during your studies next year ?
JENNY: Some other chap ? There wo n't be any other chaps . Not for a long , long time , anyway .
HEADMISTRESS: I 'm afraid I think you 're the sort of young lady who attracts chaps whether she wants to o not . No , I think the offer of a place at this school would be wasted on you . You showed how little you valued us only weeks ago . And I must confess that it gives me a sort of grim satisfaction to return the sentiment now .
JENNY: Is it really so grim , you satisfaction ?
HEADMISTRESS: It gives me no pleasure to see our schoolgirls throw their lives away . Although , of course , you 're not one of our schoolgirls any more . Through your own volition .
JENNY: I suppose you think I 'm a ruined woman .
HEADMISTRESS: Oh , you 're not a woman .
TINA: I 'm sure my uncle knows someone who could kill him . If that would help . Jenny smiles wanly , and briefly .
HATTIE: We should have stopped you .
JENNY: Did you want to ?
TINA: Of course we did n't . Why would we stop you ? Restaurants , hotels , foreign cities , no exams
JENNY: Yes . Who 'd have thought there 'd e a down side to all that ? I could tell you all about the imagery in Jane Eyre . But I could n't see that a man who stole maps from old ladies might be a liar . They look at her . This is new information .
HATTIE: Well , if you 'd told us that we might have tried to stop you .
JENNY: There are a lot of things I did n't tell you . I was dreaming .
TINA: That 's the thing about our lives , is n't it ? It 's so easy to fall asleep , when there 's nothing to keep you awake . Beat .
HATTIE: Are you getting on with the work all right on your own ?
JENNY: No . No , I 'm not .
MISS STUBBS: Jenny ! It 's a warm greeting . She ushers her inside .
JENNY: This is lovely . Miss Stubbs makes a face .
MISS STUBBS: Oh , it 's not hard . Go to Oxford and become a teacher and this is what you end up with .
JENNY: But all these books and pictures .
MISS STUBBS: Penguin paperbacks . Posters and postcards .
JENNY: Yes , butThat 's all you need , is n't it ?
MISS STUBBS: Let 's forget all about it . A poster catches Jenny 's eye .
JENNY: A Burne-Jones . Miss Stubbs laughs .
MISS STUBBS: You make it sound as though it 's an original . Do you like him ? Jenny pauses .
JENNY: Yes . I do . Still .
MISS STUBBS: Still ? Gosh , you sound very old and wise .
JENNY: I feel old . But really not very wise . Miss Stubbs , I'm.I need your help .
MISS STUBBS: I was so hoping that 's what you were going to say .
DAVID: Jenny . Jenny says nothing .
JENNY: Do n't you understand what you 've done ?
DAVID: I can see my behaviour must have een confusing . But we 've never sat down and had a prope chat about it all . About the whys and wherefores . They can wait . The important thing is that you 're still my Minnie Mouse , and I love you , and you had fun . You know you had fun .
JENNY: Yes . I had fun . But I had fun with the wrong person , at all the wrong times . And I ca n't ever get those times back , now . Look , David . I 'm in Oxford . Every day I wake up and pinch myself . And when I think how close I came
FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
DUCKS: It 's Peezee . Got ta be . He hates you fuckin ' guts .
CAESAR: I do n't know .
DUCKS: Who else knew about the money ? And how did Peezee know they popped Tony Cisco when we did n't even hear about it 'til last night ?
CAESAR: I do n't know .
DUCKS: What is so hard to understand here ? You said yourself Peezee was a mamaluke and you could n't trust him . Now suddenly you 're soft on the guy ?
CAESAR: I just do n't think it was him .
DUCKS: Okay , I 'll bite . If not Peezee , then who ?
CAESAR: I think it was you , Ducks .
DUCKS: You got ta be kiddin ' !
CAESAR: A dead fuckin ' idiot .
VITTI: Garbage . Change the channel .
WISEGUY: Okay , Paul .
CONVICT: Hey ! What 're you doin ' , asshole !
WISEGUY: Punks .
VITTI: I 'm going to bed . Vitti stands up and heads back to his cell .
EARL: They 're transferring me .
VITTI: Why ?
EARL: Do n't know . Thanks for looking out for me , Mr. Vitti .
VITTI: Yeah . Take it easy . He notices something in the box .
EARL: I 'm sorry . I just grabbed stuff I did n't know
VITTI: That 's okay . Keep it . Go ahead .
EARL: Thanks . See you around .
RABBI: And now I 'd like to call on Isaac 's son , Dr. Ben Sobel , who would like to say a few words . Ben rises and crosses solemnly to the podium .
BEN: It 's very difficult for me to talk about my father , because in a sense I 'm talking about two men .
VITTI: Guess who , you fuck !
BEN: Paul ? I have to , uh , take this . This is n't a good time .
VITTI: Not a good time ? Let me explain something to you . I 'm in fucking Hell ight now . This is not a good time .
BEN: I ca n't talk right now . My fathe died !
VITTI: So what does that have to do with me ?
BEN: Call me later
VITTI: Do n't hang up on , Sobel ! They 're tryin ' to kill me !
WISEGUY #2: Ooh , they got tapioca . I love tapioca . You all right , Paul ?
COYOTE: Hey , Fredo ! Or is it Guido ? His friends laugh . Vitti stops and stares dumbly at them .
VITTI: 'When you 're a Jet , You 're a Jet all the way , From your first cigarette To your last dyin ' day '
COYOTE: You 're a dead man , jefe !
VITTI: ' I like to be in America , Okay by me in America '
BEN: I ca n't believe he 's gone .
LAURA: I ca n't believe what you said about him . Cold and withholding ? You had to tell everybody ?
MICHAEL: Nice . Why did n't you just take a swing at the casket ? Ben opens the front door and they go in .
BEN: Okay , I might have strayed from my notes a little . I 'm dealing with a lot of stuff here . Grief is a process .
MILLER: Dr. Sobel , I 'm Agent Miller , this is Special Agent Cerrone , Federal Bureau of Investigation . We 'd just like to ask you a few questions , if we could .
LAURA: Can I ask what this is about ? We just came from the cemetery .
CERRONE: We know this is a difficult time fo you , Dr. Sobel . Sorry about you father .
BEN: Thank you , I 'm going to miss him
LAURA: Ben once today ? Enough .
BEN: No , I 'm just saying , in spite of all that
CERRONE: Dr. Sobel , you received a call this morning from Paul Vitti ? Laura shoots him a look .
BEN: What makes you think Paul Vitti called me ?
MILLER: Because we monitor and record all his phone calls from Sing Sing .
BEN: Then yes . He did .
LAURA: That was him on the phone ?
BEN: Yes .
LAURA: And you did n't tell me ?
MICHAEL: Wow . Talk about withholding .
BEN: Michael ?
LAURA: You told her You told her at the drop of a hat . Agents Cerrone and Miller eye each other .
BEN: She 's with the F.B.I . She needs to know these things .
LAURA: Oh , I see . And I do n't . Why tell Laura ? She could n't possibly handle a phone call .
BEN: Did I say that ?
MILLER: You folks need a minute ?
BEN: No , we 're fine .
LAURA: If you do n't need me anymore , I 'll be in the kitchen . And two words of advice from one professional woman to another Pant . Suit . She exits .
BEN: She 's grieving . It 's a process .
MILLER: We understand . Vitti ?
BEN: Oh , yes . Paul Vitti and I were involved in some organized crime activity a couple of years ago . I mean , I was n't involved not 'involved ' involved I was just trying to help him therapeutically , and some people tried to , uh , kill us . No big deal .
MILLER: Well , shortly after you spoke , he
BEN: What kind of breakdown ?
MILLER: I think you 'd better go up there and see for yourself .
VITTI: ' I feel pretty , oh , so pretty , I feel pretty and witty and bright '
DR. CUTLER: I 'm treating him with Thioridazine , 300 milligrams , T.I.D . That seems to keep him pretty calm .
BEN: That would keep a parade pretty calm . He just keeps singing West Side Story songs ?
DR. CUTLER: 'Tonight , ' 'Maria , ' the balcony scene .
BEN: The balcony scene ? Both parts ?
DR. CUTLER: Oh , yeah . Get him to do 'Office Krupke . ' It 's really good .
VITTI: 'Who 's the pretty girl in the mirro
BEN: Paul , it 's me . Ben Sobel . Paul ? Maria ?
VITTI: Tony ?
BEN: Oh , boy . What 's going on , Maria ?
VITTI: The rumble it 's tonight ! I have to get out of here . I do n't want to die . No , Chino , no !
BEN: Paul ? Paul ?
DR. CUTLER: This is how it 's been . He sings for a while , then he goes completely catatonic .
BEN: Really . Can we take him to an examining room ?
DR. CUTLER: Of course .
BEN: You already did a neurological work- up ?
DR. CUTLER: Yep . No tumors , no aneurisms , no sign of stroke
BEN: Completely catatonic
DR. CUTLER: I do n't know . Try it .
BEN: Okay He sticks the needle into Vitti 's shoulder .
VITTI: 'Boy , boy , crazy boy , keep cool , boy ! Got a rocket in your pocket , keep cool-y cool boy '
BEN: Paul , we 're going to give you some tests to assess your mental condition . There 's no pressure just answer as est you can . Do I have your consent to share the results of these tests ?
VITTI: Mommy 's mad at me because I made a oom on the rug .
BEN: I 'll take that as a yes . Okay , I 'm going to show you ten cards , each containing a picture of an inkblot . I want you to look at each card and tell me what you see .
VITTI: I see you . I see him . I see a table .
BEN: Focus , Paul . You have n't seen the card yet . What does this look like to you ? Take your time .
VITTI: It looks like snow .
BEN: No , Paul , the other side . Vitti turns it over and makes a face .
VITTI: A bat . A big bat . Or a weasel .
BEN: Bat or weasel . All right .
VITTI: And he 's got a little girl no , it 's a little boy in his teeth and he 's shakin ' him and shakin ' him 'cause the kid did n't wipe himself good and the kid is screaming ecause the bat-weasel ripped out his throat and the blood is shootin ' out of his neck vein . That 's the blood . Doctor Cutler looks worried .
BEN: See anything else ?
VITTI: Just the pussy with the teeth .
BEN: Pussy with teeth . Next card .
BEN: Now try repeating the numbers ackwards . For instance , if I was 1- 2-3 , you will say 3-2-1 . Okay , 7-3-8 .
VITTI: 3-2-1 . BEN Try again . 7-3-8 .
BEN: Just tell me what you think is going on in this picture .
VITTI: This is a picture of a guy nice , hardworking guy comes home and finds out his wife 's been screwin ' this midget while he was out of town .
BEN: Screwing a midget . And how does the story end ?
VITTI: I think he works over the midget for a while , then he blows 'em away .
BEN: The wife or the midget ?
VITTI: Trick question , right ? Both of 'em .
BEN: Okay , Paul . Last test . In this one , I 'm going to start a sentence and you complete it any way you want to . Ready ? ' I get angry '
VITTI: Yes .
BEN: No , you 're supposed to complete the sentence .
VITTI: I did . I said 'yes . '
BEN: I was n't asking if you agreed o disagreed ; it was more like , ' I get angry when '
VITTI: whenever .
BEN: Well , that about does it for me .
CHAPIN: So he 's crazy ?
BEN: Dr. Cutler ? No , he 's annoying , but
CHAPIN: Vitti .
BEN: Not crazy . At least not permanently . In certain people , continuous exposure to an extremely stressful situation soldiers in combat , for instance , disaster victims , a hostage situation , or being locked up in a maximum security prison with someone trying to kill you it can produce a temporary psychotic state .
CHAPIN: How temporary ?
BEN: A day , a week , up to a month if the precipitating stressors are removed .
CHAPIN: Which means he 's not going to get any etter while he 's still in the can .
BEN: He could get worse . He could deteriorate to the point where he 'd be permanently schizophrenic .
CHAPIN: Then I 'd say he 's got a real problem , ecause he goes before the parole oard in four weeks .
BEN: You think they 'll let him out ?
CHAPIN: Oh , yeah , I 'm sure they 'll want to elease a major Mafia figure who 's now totally deranged on top of it .
BEN: Well , could n't you release him to a halfway house or some place where he could get some decent treatment ? Based on my earlier work with him , I do n't think he 's dangerous , and I think he was making a real effort to eform himself .
CHAPIN: You do , huh ? Okay . Then I 'll tell you what . I 'm gon na release him into your custody .
BEN: Mine ? Me ? No , this is a bad time fo me . My father just died and I 've got this bulging disc in my neck and we 're redecorating , which is a total nightmare . I ca n't
CHAPIN: You want to see him killed in prison ?
BEN: No , of course not .
CHAPIN: Or sent to a facility for the criminally insane .
BEN: No
CHAPIN: Then he 's all yours . I 'm going to talk to the Bureau of Prisons and get you certified as a temporary federal institution .
BEN: What ? I ca n't be an institution .
CHAPIN: You 've got thirty days to get him in shape for his parole hearing . That means sane , sober and gainfully employed . But let me warn you , Doctor . If he fucks up in any way if he flees , or if I find out that this whole thing was just a setup so he could get back on the street and eturn to a life of crime I will hold you totally responsible , and I 'll see that you are stripped of you license and prosecuted to the full extent of the law . Are we clear ?
BEN: Yes . We 're clear .
CHAPIN: You still want him ?
BEN: Yes .
VITTI: You fucking son-of-a-bitch ! Where the fuck do you get off sticking me with a needle ?
BEN: I knew it ! I knew you were faking ! You used me to get you out of prison !
VITTI: Took you long enough . I was singin ' West Side Story for three fuckin ' days . I 'm half a fag already .
BEN: What are you talking about ?
VITTI: I call you to say somebody 's trying to kill me and you hang up on me ?
BEN: I was at the funeral home !
VITTI: You 're my fuckin ' doctor !
BEN: My father died !
VITTI: Me me me me ! He 's dead ! Get over it .
BEN: Are you hearing yourself ?
VITTI: I 'm deeply sorry for your loss .
BEN: Yeah , I can see how touched you are .
VITTI: What 's the difference ? You hated him anyway .
BEN: I loved my father . I 'm feeling a lot of grief right now .
VITTI: I 'm not sensing it , but if you say so . Ben nervously pops a pill and swallows it .
BEN: Decongestant . I 'm getting over a cold . All right , what 's going on ? Who 's after you ?
VITTI: I do n't know take your pick . Could e my old family , or could be the Rigazzis . Ever heard of Lou Rigazzi - - Lou 'The Wrench ' ?
BEN: Why `` The Wrench '' ?
VITTI: Because he twisted a guy 's head off once .
BEN: Off ?
VITTI: Off . Fuckin ' Calabrese animals . And comin ' from me you know that 's a ig compliment .
BEN: I 'm sure they 'd be flattered . So
VITTI: The feds are really putting the pressure on . The families are fighting each other again what 's left of 'em . It 's the fall of the fuckin ' Roman Empire . It 's World War Three out there .
BEN: So what does that have to do with you ?
VITTI: They knew I was gettin ' out soon and the last thing anybody wants to see is me getting into it on either side .
BEN: Maybe if you just explain to them that you 're out of it now , that you 're starting a new life
VITTI: Yeah , they 'll probably want to throw me a party and give me a gold watch . Trust me nobody 's lookin ' forward to me being out .
BEN: You are , are n't you ?
VITTI: Me ? Oh , yeah , my future looks real fuckin ' rosy .
BEN: Want to grab your stuff ?
VITTI: I 'm not gon na be here that long . Jelly 's pickin ' me up in an hour .
BEN: Paul ! I do n't think you understand . You 're in my custody . I could get in a lot of trouble if you screw up .
VITTI: Do n't worry about it . I 'll call you tomorrow .
BEN: Oh , no . You want to go back to Sing Sing ? Thursday 's meatloaf night . I can have you back there in no time . The U.S. Attorney was very clear . You stay with me ; therapy every day ; you ca n't leave the area without permission
VITTI: What are you , my father now ?
BEN: And you have to get a job as soon as you 're well enough , which is now . So are you coming in with me or do I have to make a phone call ?
VITTI: I 'm comin ' . Some fuckin ' life this is gon na be . He follows Ben up the stairs .
CERRONE: You really think Vitti is crazy ?
CHAPIN: Yeah , he 's about as crazy as I am .
DAVIS: If we can use Vitti to escalate this war , we might just end up putting them all away .
MILLER: That 's if he goes back to his old life .
CHAPIN: If ? People like Paul Vitti do n't change . This guy 's been a menace to society since he was twelve years old . Being a criminal is all he knows . Trust me .
DAVIS: He 's gon na head straight for trouble . Then all we have to do is sit back and pick up the pieces . We could get twenty , maybe even thirty indictments next time the grand jury convenes .
CHAPIN: You know , Giuliani started this way .
DAVIS: You running for mayor ?
CHAPIN: Could happen . Just stick with Vitti .
LAURA: How could you ? How could you bring him here ? That mobster in my home eating off my dishes .
BEN: I did n't have a lot of choice .
LAURA: Oh , there 's a law that says you have to bring a gangster home ?
BEN: I told you . He 's in my custody . I 'm a federal institution .
LAURA: You should be in an institution . Why could n't he just go home ?
BEN: His wife and kids are n't here . They 're in Ohio .
LAURA: Ohio ! Sure . Everyone gets to be in Ohio except me .
BEN: His life was threatened and he did n't want to endanger his family .
LAURA: How thoughtful ! What about endangering our family ? I think my teeth are loose . Feel my teeth .
BEN: Honey , your teeth are fine . I know it 's an imposition , but what could I do ? I did n't want him here . They -
LAURA: You did n't want him , I did n't want him , but here he is !
VITTI: Coffee ?
LAURA: What ?
VITTI: Somebody said something about coffee .
LAURA: That was you . You said you wanted some .
VITTI: So what 's the holdup ?
LAURA: Why do n't you make your friend some coffee . I 'm going upstairs to take a long bath and hopefully drown . Laura smiles at the two men , then exits .
BEN: You 'll have to forgive her . She 's usually a great hostess .
VITTI: I understand . She 's uncomfortable . The whole situation 's a little awkward with me bein ' here but let 's face it , Emily fuckin ' Post she 's not .
BEN: Emily fuckin ' Post . Well , that explains why she rarely used he middle name .
VITTI: Listen , I got a friend coming over . I did n't want you to be surprised .
BEN: What kind of friend ? Because if it 's 'The Wrench , ' or 'The Power Drill ' o any other kind of tool
VITTI: Not that kind of friend . It 's a personal thing .
BEN: They wo n't stay late , will they ?
VITTI: Are you really that pussy-whipped ?
BEN: I 'm not this has nothing to do with Laura .
VITTI: I heard her busting your balls .
BEN: We were having a disagreement . A certain amount of conflict is normal in a marriage .
VITTI: Or ?
BEN: Or what ?
VITTI: Or you 're pussy-whipped .
BEN: Paul
VITTI: Good night , Whippy .
BEN: Remember , this is only temporary .
VITTI: Oh , really ? I did n't hear you the tenth fuckin ' time . He exits .
BEN: Mike , can we talk for a second ?
MICHAEL: Sure . What ?
BEN: I know the last few weeks have been kind of tough with Grandpa dying and everything and it might 've felt to you like I did n't have time for you or I did n't care about how you feel .
MICHAEL: No , it did n't .
BEN: Good . Because I want you to know that you can talk to me about stuff and that I can really listen and understand what you 're going through .
MICHAEL: I do , Dad .
BEN: And if I seemed a little hard on Grandpa , it 's just that you grandfather was a hard man in a lot of ways . He wanted everything done his way and sometimes I just felt like nothing I ever did was good enough . I do n't want it to be that way with us .
MICHAEL: It 's not .
BEN: And you know , at times like this we all might start questioning our own mortality and you might be thinking how devastated you 'd be if I died . Right ?
MICHAEL: No . Not really .
BEN: That 's good . Good talk . And I ealize it 's all a little hectic right now , but this Paul Vitti thing is only temporary , okay ?
MICHAEL: Oh , really ? I did n't hear you the tenth fuckin ' time .
BEN: That 's not funny . Good night , Michael .
MICHAEL: Good night , Whippy . Ben exits , shaking his head .
CUTE GIRL: I got ta get home . What was that about ?
MICHAEL: I have no idea . Parenting stuff .
BEN: This has to be some kind of record , do n't you think ? It 's been like forty minutes .
LAURA: How long are you going to let them go on ?
BEN: Let them ? How much longer can he go ? Another twenty minutes , I 'm eithe eaking it up or calling the Guinness Book of Records .
LAURA: Oh , give me a break . She 's got to be
BEN: That 's not entirely true .
LAURA: Okay , sometimes you do sound like that .
CERRONE: Oh , come on . Nobody sounds like that .
VITTI: What ?
BEN: I have a 17-year-old son .
VITTI: So let him get his own fuckin ' girl .
BEN: Can I talk to you , please ?
VITTI: Actually , I 'm right in the middle of someone . Sheila starts to light a cigarette .
BEN: Miss ? Excuse me . There 's no smoking in this house .
VITTI: Minding my own fuckin ' business , like you should be doin ' .
BEN: Well , it 's a little hard with the live sex show going on in the guest room .
VITTI: I 've been in prison for two and a half years . What am I supposed to do ?
BEN: Go to a hotel .
VITTI: That 's what I wanted to do , but you told me I had no choice it was either here or Sing Sing .
BEN: I 'm not trying to punish you . These are n't my rules , but I have a esponsibility here . Besides , I thought you might like a nice home- cooked meal after being in prison that long .
VITTI: Yeah , that 's what I 've been jerkin ' off about for eight hundred consecutive nights a nice home- cooked meal . Ohhhh , tuna casserole .
BEN: That girl is not staying here .
VITTI: I think you 're jealous .
BEN: Oh , yeah , I 'm really jealous .
VITTI: I did n't hear nothin ' comin ' out of your room .
BEN: We do n't think it 's necessary to wake the neighbors every time we have sex .
VITTI: Hey , if you 're really quiet , you might e able to do it without even wakin ' up your wife .
BEN: This is not a good start , Paul .
LAURA: Aunt Ester , I 'm so sorry we had to put you up at the hotel . We wanted you here with us , but we had an unexpected house guest . She glares at Ben .
AUNT ESTHER: Your father always had room for us .
BEN: I 'm sorry . Next time I lose a parent , I 'll be sure to reserve the guest room .
SHEILA: Go to hell , Paul ! You just go to hell !
VITTI: Go back to turning tricks in Jersey for all I fuckin ' care .
LAURA: Ben ?
BEN: Paul ?
VITTI: Oh , great . Jew food . Who do you have to fuck to get some bacon around here ? The woman reacts in horror .
BEN: Why do n't we go to my office ? I 'll make you a plate .
VITTI: What is it with your relatives ? They tend to overreact quite a bit .
BEN: I know . All you did was flash everybody in the dining room .
VITTI: So ? From the look of 'em , some of those broads have n't seen the old salcicc ' in a long time . It 's good for them .
BEN: Well , when the paramedics revive my Aunt Goldie , I 'll be sure to ask her . Sit . Vitti starts for Ben 's chair .
VITTI: What do you mean ?
BEN: With your life .
VITTI: First I 'm gon na find out who 's tryin ' to kill me . I 'm a target . Somebody could shoot right through that window blow my fuckin ' head off .
BEN: Okay , that 's a priority . Have you thought about what you 're going to do for work ?
VITTI: Yeah . I 'm too big for a jockey so I was thinkin ' maybe a hairdresser . They 'll call me Mr. Paul .
BEN: Come on . There must be something you like to do .
VITTI: I like hitting a guy on the head with a baseball bat .
BEN: Oh , sporting goods . We 'll check the want ads tomorrow but do n't get you hopes up . Anything else ?
VITTI: Shylocking , bookmaking , unions , the usual
BEN: Who are you ?
VITTI: Who am I ? I 'm the guy who 's paying you $ 150 an hour to play these stupid fuckin ' games . You know who I am .
BEN: I know that . I mean what are you ?
VITTI: What do you mean , 'What am I ? '
BEN: I just want to know how you see yourself .
VITTI: You 're making me very fuckin ' nervous .
BEN: Just answer the question . What are you ?
VITTI: I 'm the boss .
BEN: Really ? The boss of what Jelly ? You 're not the boss of me . So what are you the boss of ?
VITTI: You , you 're good . I see what you 're doing here .
BEN: What am I doing , Paul ?
VITTI: You 're pissing me off is what you 're doing . Look at me . It 's starting again , the anxiety .
BEN: I understand .
VITTI: I do n't know . Who remembers that stuff ?
BEN: You must 've wanted to be something when you were little fireman ?
VITTI: No .
BEN: Baseball player ?
VITTI: No .
BEN: Astronaut ?
VITTI: No .
BEN: Al Capone ?
VITTI: Yeah , maybe . What did you want to be ?
BEN: We 're not talking about me .
VITTI: I am .
BEN: Fine . I wanted to be a philatelist .
VITTI: You wanted to look up people 's assholes all day ?
BEN: No , Paul , I believe you 're thinking of a proctologist . I wanted to collect are and unusual stamps .
VITTI: You must 've been a lot of laughs when you were a kid . Lonely , huh ?
BEN: Oh yeah . Big time . So what did you want to be ?
VITTI: It 's stupid .
BEN: You afraid to tell me ?
VITTI: Yeah , I 'm afraid .
BEN: Then tell me . I 'm not here to judge you .
VITTI: Okay . When I was really little like seven or eight maybe I wanted to be a cowboy .
BEN: A cowboy . Really ?
VITTI: Yeah . My father gave me a cowboy suit you know , the vest , the chaps , the cap guns the whole thing . And he used to take me up to my uncle 's farm in New Jersey and lead me around on this pony . Yippee-i-o . You happy now ?
BEN: So you watched cowboy movies and TV shows with your father .
VITTI: Everybody . The whole family . My father loved 'Gunsmoke . '
BEN: Sheriff Dillon .
VITTI: Marshal Dillon .
BEN: Marshal . So who were your favorite cowboys ?
VITTI: This is so fuckin ' retarded .
BEN: Paul !
VITTI: All right . Gene Autry , Roy Rogers , the Lone Ranger
BEN: Interesting . They 're all good guys .
VITTI: Yeah , I guess .
BEN: No , that 's important . You did n't want to be the bad guy . You wanted to be the hero .
VITTI: Yeah , so ?
BEN: So what happened ?
VITTI: I do n't know . Nothing happened .
BEN: So why did n't you become a cowboy ?
VITTI: I lived in East Harlem ! I joined a street gang when I was 12 and that was it .
BEN: Something else happened when you were twelve .
VITTI: What ?
BEN: Something that made you very sad ?
VITTI: The Dodgers moved from Brooklyn to L.A. Everybody took it pretty hard .
BEN: Something else .
VITTI: We playin ' a guessing game here ?
BEN: Paul ! Your father was murdered ! Right in front of you . Remember ?
VITTI: Do I remember ? I think about it every fuckin ' day of my life . What 's that got to do with it ?
BEN: It 's got everything to do with it . He gave you the cowboy suit . With a white hat . He was in the mob , but he wanted you to be a good guy , did n't he ?
VITTI: Yeah . He did .
BEN: He did n't want you in the gang life . He only did it himself so you would n't have to . He was trying to buy you a etter life than his .
VITTI: He always said he wanted me to go to college . I did n't even finish high school . He really starts sobbing now .
BEN: Well , Paul , this could be a great opportunity for you . You 're right ack where you were when you were twelve . You 've got some big choices to make . Vitti fights to regain control .
VITTI: Okay . Okay . That 's enough of that shit .
BEN: It 's not shit , Paul . My point is , when you 're a child , you think anything is possible . Would n't it be great to think like that now ?
VITTI: Yeah , just sprinkle some fuckin ' fairy dust on me .
BEN: I 'm just saying you 've got to keep an open mind and explore some new possibilities . Try some different things maybe you 'll connect with one of them . There 's a caree counselor I work with . I can call him for you . He may be able to help you find a job .
VITTI: You mean working for somebody ? I 'm supposed to take orders from some guy who used to get me coffee ? ( starts sweating and
BEN: How do you know unless you try ?
JELLY: Hiya , Doc . Sorry about the window . Ben waves him around to the side door .
LAURA: Really . More smoked salmon ? Do n't be shy . Ben enters .
BEN: Jelly what are you doing here ?
JELLY: Makin ' new friends . How 's it going , Doc ? I brought some clothes for Mr. Vitti .
LAURA: Ben ?
BEN: That 's great , Jelly . I 'd love to catch up with you outside .
JELLY: You got it . Thanks , Mrs. S. So long , everybody . Ess gesunterhait . Jelly and Ben exit .
BEN: And you , Jelly you look Did you get a haircut ? I thought you were in prison .
JELLY: It would appear not .
BEN: How 'd you get out ?
JELLY: New trial . The evidence in my first trail was , you know , tainted . Turns out two of the witnesses against me changed their minds and the third one , he died after a short illness .
BEN: What did he have ?
JELLY: Gunshot wound to the head .
BEN: That 's not an illness .
JELLY: Yeah , but it is short .
BEN: Where are you going ?
VITTI: I got stuff to do .
BEN: What kind of stuff ?
VITTI: Calm down . I 'll be back .
BEN: You ca n't leave without my permission .
VITTI: Oh , yeah ? Watch me . Drive , Jelly .
BEN: That 's it , Paul . I forbid you to go .
VITTI: Stop sweating , Doc . I 'll be back . Vitti puts the window up .
BEN: If you screw this up , Paul Paul ! The car pulls away .
AUNT GOLDIE: So , the fat one he 's single ?
MASIELLO: Paulie , great to see you ! You 're lookin ' good , kid . Lookin ' very good . Jelly , how are ya ?
VITTI: No , I 'm okay . It was an act . I had to pretend I was nuts . There were people watching me all the time .
MASIELLO: Little people ?
VITTI: Doctors . They never woulda let me out if they thought I was normal .
MASIELLO: So you ai n't crazy ?
VITTI: You want to see crazy ? Just tell me who 's trying to kill me . I 'll show you crazy .
MASIELLO: We 're in a war , Paul nobody 's safe ight now . The Rigazzis are walkin ' all over us . We got next to nothing coming in , and I do n't have to tell you , you do n't buy a lot of muscle without money these days . We need you , Paul . The family needs you .
VITTI: I ca n't do it , Sal . I 'm out of it .
MASIELLO: Come on , Paulie . Nobody used to do the big jobs like you . Air France they 're still talkin ' about it .
VITTI: Sal , even if I wanted to the feds
MASIELLO: After your father died , I always treated you like my own son . You know that .
VITTI: I know .
MASIELLO: He was a good man . I still miss him .
VITTI: Yeah , I do too .
MASIELLO: So you 'll think about it . For me , Paulie ?
VITTI: Yeah , okay , I 'll think about it .
MASIELLO: Hey , what is this a fuckin ' funeral here ? You just got back from college for Chrissakes . We should be havin ' a party for you . Hey , Nino , give everybody a round here . We got ta drink to Paul .
VITTI: I ca n't , Sal . I got ta go talk to the oss .
MASIELLO: I understand . No problem . It 's good to have you back , Paul . Do n't forget what I said . We 're countin ' on you .
EDDIE: Yeah , what ?
VITTI: 'Yeah , what ? ' That 's how you answe the door ?
EDDIE: You got a problem with that ?
VITTI: Yeah .
PATTY: Paul what a nice surprise .
VITTI: How 's it goin ' , Patty ?
PATTY: Good . It 's good . Give me a kiss , you .
VITTI: Sorry to hear about Carmine . He was a good man .
PATTY: Yeah . You live with a person twenty- one years , then one day they 're
VITTI: I 'll bet especially with all the talk about you being the one who put him there .
PATTY: That 's why I try not to gossip , Paul . It 's ugly . Just a sec . Michelle ! Teresa ! It 's ten-thirty ! Stop fucking around and get ready fo allet ! It 's hard being a single parent and a career woman .
VITTI: Yeah , I 'm sure you 're very busy .
PATTY: The pressure it 's awful . Fo instance , a lot of people think , now that you 're out , you 're going to try and take the family back from me . But I said , no , Paul would never do that . By the way , how are Marie and the kids ? Still in Ohio ? In Shake Heights ? At 1356 Locust ?
VITTI: You even go near them , you crazy bitch
PATTY: Do n't make me call my guys in . You may need the shit kicked out of you , ut not in here . I just mopped . Vitti lets her go .
VITTI: Yeah , I been workin ' out who 's trying
PATTY: It 's a dog-eat-dog world out there . Nobody 's gon na be safe unless we can end this thing with the Rigazzis .
VITTI: So then you did n't have nothin ' to do with it .
PATTY: Oh , Paul . You actually think I would kill you ? All the years we 've known each other the Christmas parties , the fun times at the beach . It would n't be right . I want us to be friends . Who knows ? Maybe we 'll be more than friends . Want to lick my beaters ? She holds the beaters out to him .
VITTI: Thanks . I got ta see a guy about a usiness thing .
PATTY: What kind of business ? You know , if you get something going , we would expect some kind of consideration a little taste .
VITTI: No , this is a legitimate business .
PATTY: Oh , Paul . I just got a chill .
VITTI: I just want to be left alone . Put my life back together straight up this time . Put the word out , will ya ? Nobody 's got nothin ' to worry about from me .
PATTY: Sure , Paul . I understand . He heads for the door .
VITTI: Look at the size of that trunk . You could fit three people in there . Not people suitcases . It 's a joke . The MacInernys laugh uncertainly .
JOEY BOOTS: Paul , I heard you were out .
VITTI: Hey , Joey .
JOEY BOOTS: All dressed up for dinner , huh ?
VITTI: Yeah .
MAITRE D': Paul , that table for six is ready . You can send them back .
JOEY BOOTS: You 're working here ?
VITTI: Nah not really . It 's like I 'm on parole , so I just I come in , I greet people . Joey and his friends nod condescendingly .
JOEY BOOTS: Okay . I get it . Nice seein ' you , Paul . Do n't want to hold you up . You got people to seat .
FLASH PHOTO: Vitti poses for a picture with some notables .
ANOTHER PHOTO: Vitti with some Broadway actors .
BUSINESSMAN: Thanks , Paul . Appreciate it . Vitti moves to leave .
VITTI: You want more bread ?
YOUNG MAN: This stone is supposed to be a ' G ' color , but it looks kind of yellow , does n't it ?
VITTI: Fluorescent light . Makes everything look yellow . He starts instinctively casing the store .
FIANCEE: I thought fluorescent light makes everything look blue ?
VITTI: What am I Edison ? I 'm telling you , it 's a ' G . ' He glances at the surveillance cameras .
YOUNG MAN: Can I look at it with a lens ?
VITTI: What ?
FIANCEE: A lens . Do you have a lens ?
OWNER: Ben 's cousin , approaches Vitti who is now hyperventilating .
VITTI: I 'm gon na do us both a big favor . I quit .
VITTI: What ? VITTI 'S MOTHER is sitting next to him .
VITTI'S MOTHER: Sit up straight ! Pay attention when the doctor talks to you . This is costing money .
VITTI: Ma ? What are you doin ' here ?
VITTI'S MOTHER: I tell him the same thing .
LAURA: Now in here , I thought we 'd get rid of the wallpaper and maybe put in some wainscoting
VITTI: Really ? Do me a favor , honey make me a sandwich .
LAURA: You want a sandwich ? Make it yourself . I 'm not afraid of you , Mr. Oh-I'm-A-Great-Big-Mobster Man . I want you out of my house .
VITTI: Coulda had that sandwich made by now .
LAURA: Okay . You do n't like me and I do n't like you . We can at least agree on that , right ?
VITTI: Okay .
LAURA: I 'm going to be honest with you I 'm a very anxious person
VITTI: Hey ! Me , too .
LAURA: We have so much in common . Anyway , this is not helping me , it 's not helping my marriage , and I know Ben eally needs some alone time . So I 'm asking you as a human being could you please leave ? Yes , I 'll make you a sandwich .
VITTI: Ham , cheese , lettuce , tomato , mayonnaise , no onion .
BEN: Where are you going ?
VITTI: Where am I going ? The orphanage found my real parents . They want me back . Put those in the car . I 'm goin ' to Jelly 's .
BEN: The hell you are . You 're supposed to e in my custody . We have therapy today .
VITTI: For what ? The more we talk the worse I get . I had that dream again .
BEN: The one where you 're Mussolini ?
VITTI: No , the other one .
BEN: The limp sword dream ?
JELLY: I probably should n't be listening to this .
VITTI: So do n't !
JELLY: Sorry .
BEN: Do you think this dream might be sexual ?
VITTI: I know what you 're thinkin ' . The sword is my cock and I ca n't get it up , but that ai n't it . I saw Sheila last night and I had a hard-on you could swing from .
BEN: I do n't want to know that .
VITTI: You coulda hung wet towels on it .
JELLY: He 's like a racehorse in that area .
BEN: Okay ! I get it .
VITTI: Wait in the car ! So what does it mean ? Ben sits on the wicker divan .
BEN: Sex can represent a lot of things . In your case I think it 's about performance anxiety . Trying to find a job that fits .
VITTI: Doc nothing 's gon na fit . That nine-to-five bullshit I 'll fuckin ' kill myself if I have to do that fo the rest of my life . You know they take taxes out of your check ? What the fuck is that ? I 'm doomed . I 'm gon na end up selling hot dogs on the street . Look at me . I 'm havin ' a fuckin ' panic attack here . My heart 's beatin ' like a rabbit .
BEN: You 're hyperventilating .
VITTI: This is your fault .
BEN: Excuse me ?
VITTI: Tellin ' me I have to get a job like I 'm some fuckin ' nobody . It was humiliating ! Thanks a lot .
BEN: Hey , I 'm doing the best I can ! If you ca n't appreciate that , or if my best is n't good enough for you , then maybe you should find somebody else to talk to , you selfish prick !
VITTI: What the hell was that ?
BEN: I 'm fine . I 'm grieving . It 's a process .
VITTI: Now what are you takin ' ?
BEN: Echinacea and goldenseal . Do you know the TV show 'Little Caesar ' ?
VITTI: Yeah , I know it .
BEN: The producer of that show is a man
VITTI: For what ?
BEN: Meet him and find out .
LAURA: We finally got him out of the house why are we having dinner with him ? I mean , how professional is that ?
BEN: This is not social . Paul 's meeting a television producer who might have a job for him . He 's nervous and wants me here as a buffer . I 'm a buffer , that 's all .
LAURA: He 's a grown man . I do n't see why he needs a chaperone .
BEN: He does n't . He needs a buffer . I 'm here in buffer capacity only .
LAURA: Ben , if you say 'buffer ' one more time
BEN: No , that was something else .
LAURA: Well , you better not drink anything . You know what happens .
BEN: Laura ? I 'm a doctor ? I think I know what I 'm doing .
MILLER: They 're all inside . We 're going to get something to eat . We 'll be back efore they finish dinner . They drive off .
RAOUL: I adore this place . Best sushi in town . Have you tried the yellowtail , Paul ?
VITTI: No . We gettin ' any real food ? This is like eatin ' fuckin ' bait .
BEN: Bait ! That 's funny . Honey , did you hear what Paul just said ? He said this is like eating bait .
LAURA: I heard him . And I think it was 'effing bait . '
VITTI: Why you talkin ' like that ?
BEN: Like what ?
VITTI: Like a fuckin ' retard .
BEN: Oh this ? I took a couple ibuprofen efore we got here I should n't have had the saki . I 'll be fine . It only lasts a couple hours . Rah-oo . Row . Rowl . I guess you need oth lips for that name . You know what I love about Paul ? He was born without a filter . He says exactly what he 's thinking just lays it right out there . He does n't edit himself .
VITTI: You wan na shut the fuck up ?
BEN: See ? He just told me to shut the fuck up . No filter . I love that . Is n't he great ?
LAURA: Too much buffering . Way too much .
RAOUL: Yes . Paul , I 'm such a huge fan of yours not a fan , but you know , an admirer .
VITTI: Do n't admire me too much .
RAOUL: Is there any chance you might be interested in working on 'Little Caesar ' as a consultant ? Give us technical advice , coach the actors , make sure the dialogue rings true
BEN: Wow . That would be incredible . Did you hear that , Paul ? Raoul wants to know if you 'd be interested in working on his show as a consultant . You know , give technical advice , coach the actors
VITTI: In two seconds I 'm gon na put a fork in your eye .
BEN: Got it .
RAOUL: So what do you think , Paul ?
VITTI: Yeah , sure , whatever .
RAOUL: Fantastic !
SHEILA: This is so exciting . Mr. Berman , I love your show . Anthony Bella , the guy who plays Nicky Caesar I think he grew up in Bensonhurst next door to my cousin 's friend 's husband .
VITTI: That 's her claim to fame . I hate to bust your bubble , but he 's not from Bensonhurst . He 's a professional Italian . He grew up in Connecticut or something like that .
SHEILA: Well , wherever he 's from , I think he 's a wonderful actor .
JELLY: Yeah , I bet he gets a lot of pussy . Laura chokes on her drink .
VITTI: What 's the matter with you ? We got women at the table .
JELLY: You said 'fuckin ' . '
VITTI: That 's different . It 's colorful .
BEN: Hey , speaking of colorful this peacock walks into a bar
LAURA: Oh , my god . Could I get another one , please ?
BEN: And one for me .
LAURA: No . No more for the Buffer .
VITTI: So . I see in the paper where Oklahoma ! might win the Tony award . Vitti 's eyes suddenly go wide .
BEN: What the hell was that ?
VITTI: I think somebody 's got it in fo Raoul .
RAOUL: Holy fucking shit . That was phenomenal !
JELLY: Hey , pal got a light ?
GUNMAN: Where 's your cigarette ?
JELLY: I 'm trying to cut down .
LAURA: I do n't know why you feel you have to save this man .
BEN: It 's my job . He needs me .
LAURA: So that automatically means you have to help him ? You 're always doing this putting other people 's needs ahead of your own , like you 're this marty or saint or something . It 's like living with Mother Teresa .
BEN: Actually , I hear she was tough to live with . Lot of parties , loud music lepers .
LAURA: You do n't need this in you life especially not now . You eally need to be grieving for you father .
BEN: I am .
LAURA: Really ? I have n't seen it .
BEN: Well , you know , it 's a process . I mean , we had issues there 's some anger but I 'll work it out . Laura goes to Ben and embraces him .
LAURA: It 's okay , honey . You can let it go .
BEN: No , I 'm it 's okay . Ben sits heavily on the bed .
LAURA: I just want you to be happy . She kisses him .
BEN: Maybe you 're right . Maybe it 's time I started focusing on me , and , you know , satisfying some of
LAURA: Oh , honey , I just brushed my teeth .
BEN: No , that 's not what I meant . I just need I do n't know what . She puts her arms around him and holds him .
VITTI: I 'm gon na ask you once nicely . Who you working for ?
GUNMAN: Fuck you .
VITTI: Fuck me ? Fine . Jelly ?
JELLY: He 's screamin ' too loud . Hold on a second .
VITTI: Who are you working for ?
GUNMAN: Nobody !
VITTI: Drop him , Jelly .
GUNMAN: Okay ! Okay ! Rigazzi ! I 'm working for Rigazzi !
VITTI: Pull him back up . Jelly drops the guy .
JELLY: You said drop him .
VITTI: I said pull him back up .
JELLY: That 's not what I heard .
VITTI: You heard what you wanted to hear .
JELLY: Okay , you got me there .
RIGAZZI: What the hell happened to you ?
GUNMAN: Vitti threw me off a roof .
RIGAZZI: Vitti ? You talked to Vitti ? What did you say to him ?
GUNMAN: Nothing . I did n't tell him anything . Mr. Rigazzi , can I go I think my leg 's broken .
RIGAZZI: That must hurt .
SOLDIER: What about Vitti ?
RIGAZZI: He 's a hard man to kill . But he 's not immortal . Our time will come .
CAESAR: I like mine burnt .
MELLO: I do n't know how you like you sausage ? Twenty fuckin ' years we been doin ' this . So you got the money ?
CAESAR: Not all of it . I 'm still light about fifteen large . Can we cut ? This is ridiculous .
RAOUL: This is the problem with shooting on location . But it 's worth it for the authenticity .
VITTI: Yeah , this is real authentic .
RAOUL: Tony ! Come here a second . Anthony Bella . He plays Nicky Caesar .
VITTI: I know who he is . They used to watch the show up at Sing Sing .
RAOUL: Are you shitting me ? ANTHONY BELLA joins them .
TONY BELLA: You do n't have to tell me who he is . It 's a pleasure , mate .
VITTI: Mate ? I do n't believe this ! You 're an English guy ? You ai n't even Italian .
TONY BELLA: Australian-Italian . We got some paisans down under .
VITTI: Down under what ?
RAOUL: How incredible is this ? Paul tells me they watch the show in Sing Sing !
TONY BELLA: Fantastic ! That 's so fuckin ' great .
VITTI: I would n't wet my pants over it . They watch 'Supermarket Sweep , ' too . Raoul laughs hard .
TONY BELLA: So , Paul , you going to join us ?
VITTI: Yeah . You got a good setup here .
TONY BELLA: Great . See you later then . He exits . Vitti turns to Raoul .
VITTI: Coupla things , though . I do n't know who makes these decisions , but some of this , it do n't look right .
RAOUL: I sensed it myself . Which elements strike you as wrong ?
VITTI: The people mainly . I mean , you got a oss who speaks Australian . What the fuck is that ? And I 'm guessing you
RAOUL: The theater , mostly .
VITTI: Yeah , the theater . So how about if I ing in some guys that I know you know , more 'authentic . '
RAOUL: I would be eternally grateful . Anything else ?
VITTI: Yeah . One of those trailers like the stars have .
RAOUL: Done . I 'll put that in the works right now .
JELLY: You really gon na do this ?
VITTI: No fuckin ' way . I 've had it with this job bullshit . A week of this and I 'd either shoot myself or shoot Raoul . But it 's good cover while I figure out my next move . Call the guys .
JELLY: You got it .
VITTI: Yeah , ten minutes , tell 'em .
SOLDIER: Walk this way .
BEN: There must be some mistake . I did n't order a limo .
SOLDIER: Get in the car .
BEN: Hello . I 'm Ben Sobel . And you are
MASIELLO: You 're the shrink who 's taking care of Paul Vitti ?
BEN: Yes , sir . That 's right . Could you be careful , because I think they put the eggs on the bottom . He drops the bags heavily onto the bar .
MASIELLO: So ? Is he nuts or what ?
BEN: Who ?
MASIELLO: Paulie . Is he nuts ?
BEN: I ca n't discuss a patient 's case with anyone
MASIELLO: Discuss it .
BEN: I 'd say he 's still suffering from chronic anxiety and He hesitates .
MASIELLO: And what .
BEN: We call it Antisocial Personality Disorder . Sociopathy .
MASIELLO: Meaning what ?
BEN: Meaning he fails to conform to societal norms with respect to lawful behavior .
MASIELLO: I 'm getting a fuckin ' headache here .
BEN: He 's got a criminal temperament .
MASIELLO: He 's a criminal ? This is news ? And for that you need a docto degree ? So what are you doin ' with him ?
BEN: Well , I 'm trying to at least show him the possibility of change
PATTY: Wrong . You do not want him to change .
BEN: We have n't really been introduced
MASIELLO: This is Mrs. LoPresti .
PATTY: Patty .
BEN: Ben Sobel . Ben offers his hand but she ignores it .
PATTY: Ben , Paul Vitti is important to this family . We do n't want to see you turn him into a stromboni .
BEN: A stromboni ? That thing they clean the ice with at hockey games ?
MASIELLO: That 's a Zamboni , asshole . Stromboni .
PATTY: It 's a bull with his balls cut off .
BEN: No , we do n't want to do that .
PATTY: Not unless you want to be one , too .
BEN: Me ? No . I 'm very attached to my alls . As you can probably tell .
PATTY: Then do the right thing , understand ?
BEN: Yes , I understand completely . May I go now ? I have perishables He takes his groceries and edges away .
VITTI: We 're gon na need a grapple or a crane with maybe a fifty-foot boom .
JELLY: I got a guy in the Transit Authority . He owes me . Just let me know when .
PATTY: I guess everybody 's gone Hollywood , huh ?
VITTI: How you doin ' , Patty .
PATTY: Jelly you 're working here , too ?
JELLY: I 'm an extra .
PATTY: An extra what ?
JELLY: A supernumerary . An 'atmosphere . ' It ai n't bad . You just stand around all day waitin ' for them to shoot and they pay you eighty bucks .
PATTY: Eighty bucks ? For standin ' around all day ? You used to sneeze eighty bucks . How much you make shootin ' craps ?
JELLY: Today ? About eight hundred maybe .
PATTY: And how about bookin ' bets for the Teamsters and the crew ?
JELLY: Another grand . One of the producers eally likes the ponies .
PATTY: So eighteen hundred bucks .
JELLY: Plus eighty
PATTY: I know extra . They all laugh . An ASSISTANT DIRECTOR approaches the group .
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: This is a closed set . We 're about to start shooting .
EDDIE: Yeah ? So am I .
DRIVER: Should I wait here , Mr. Rigazzi ?
RIGAZZI: No , pull the car up your ass and wait there .
PATTY: I heard you had some more trouble .
VITTI: One of Rigazzi 's guys took a shot at me .
PATTY: I do n't have to tell you , Paul . Alone on the street you do n't stand a chance . That 's what the family 's all about . Since the old days , when the grandfathers first came over . That 's not something you just walk away from .
VITTI: Yeah , I know . When you 're a Jet , you 're a Jet all the way .
PATTY: So you want to tell me what 's going on here ? It looks like you got you whole crew back together .
VITTI: Nothing 's going on . They 're actors .
PATTY: Do n't bullshit me , Paul . You 're planning something . I 'm feeling very left out .
VITTI: Okay . Something big is going down , ut you 're getting a cut . My hand to God .
PATTY: You 're a good friend , Paul . And I would never think of insisting on this , but I 'd feel better if you ought in Eddie and some of my guys to help with the job .
VITTI: I do n't think so .
PATTY: Then I 'll have to insist .
VITTI: Whatever . Raoul approaches and eyes Patty disdainfully .
RAOUL: Oh , dear God . First of all , sweetheart , we 're not shooting the hooker scene until tomorrow . And the hair please , what is that ?
PATTY: Excuse me ?
VITTI: Raoul , this is a friend of mine . Patty LoPresti . Raoul freezes , recognizing the name .
RAOUL: Mrs. LoPresti I am so very , very
PATTY: Go fuck yourself .
RAOUL: Immediately .
PATTY: It 's good to have you back , Paul .
RAOUL: I mean , tell me was she angry ? Am I in any danger ?
VITTI: No , you 're fine . But you might want to have somebody else start your ca the next couple of weeks .
RAOUL: I 'll have Brian do it . He 's new . Rigazzi and his men join them .
RIGAZZI: Could I talk to you for a second ?
RAOUL: Oh , what is this now , the bus and truck tour of Guys and Dolls ?
VITTI: This is Lou Rigazzi .
RAOUL: 'The Wrench . '
RIGAZZI: Get lost .
RAOUL: Certainly . Brian ! Get my car !
RIGAZZI: I need a couple minutes .
VITTI: This way .
RIGAZZI: The guy who shot at you he was acting on his own . I never gave an order .
VITTI: Is that right ?
RIGAZZI: And he 's been taken care of . There wo n't be another incident . Unless you 're thinkin ' of workin ' for Patty LoPresti .
VITTI: Me ? No .
RIGAZZI: Good . Then I got no beef with you .
VITTI: Thanks . I 'll sleep much better .
RIGAZZI: Because that would not be the way to go . You want to back a winner , which is gon na be me . It only makes sense . You come work for us . I 'll treat you ight .
VITTI: I do n't think so .
RIGAZZI: Well , so much for sleeping better .
JELLY: Hey , Dr. Sobel ?
BEN: Jelly , hi . Hey ! Yo-Yo !
JELLY: It 's Mo-Mo .
BEN: Right . I was thinking of the cellist . How 's it going ?
TUNA: I 'm up for a recurring on 'NYPD Blue . '
BEN: That 's great . Have you seen Paul ?
JELLY: Yeah , I think he 's in his camper .
BEN: His camper .
VITTI: Hey , Doc . What are you doing here ?
BEN: No , what are you doing here ? I came to tell you we have a preliminary meeting with your parole officer and who do I run into ? Patty LoPresti .
VITTI: Patty who ?
BEN: What is this a knock-knock joke ? Patty-who-kidnapped-me-and-threatened- to-cut-off-my-balls . Stop lying to me , Paul . Your whole gang is here .
VITTI: Who says I 'm lying ? I finally get a straight job and start putting my life in order and you come in here and start accusing me ! That 's how much you trust me ?
BEN: It 's not that I do n't trust you , I just do n't trust you . Are you lying to me ? Because I know you , Paul . You 'll say or do anything to get your own way .
VITTI: This is what 's so hard about being an ex-con . You make one little mistake in your life and people never let you forget it .
BEN: Oh , so now you 're the victim ? I want the truth .
VITTI: Wait a second . Say that again .
BEN: Say what ?
VITTI: ' I want the truth . ' Say it like you did just now .
BEN: I want the truth ?
VITTI: No , strong , like before .
BEN: I want the truth !
VITTI: Yeah , that 's good !
BEN: Paul
VITTI: No , I 'm serious . That had power . I elieved it . You could be an actor .
BEN: I 'm not an actor
VITTI: Hey , you 're as good as most of the ums I see around here . They have this part . You could do it .
BEN: Actually , I did The Music Man in tenth grade .
VITTI: Of course . I 'm gon na talk to Raoul .
BEN: About being on the show ? I could n't -
VITTI: No , this part you could do . It 's perfect . Believe me .
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: We 're rolling .
SOUNDMAN: Sound speed .
RAOUL: Action !
RAOUL: Does that screaming sound real to you ?
VITTI: Oh , yeah . That sounds real .
BEN: It 's not funny ! There was no safety harness or anything . They could have dropped me .
VITTI: Hey , if you did n't want to do it , why did n't you say something ?
BEN: I know exactly what that was about . You resent the fact that you 've been put in my custody , so you passive- aggressively arranged things to make me look like a fool .
VITTI: Come on you were great .
BEN: Really ? I was scared at first , but on the second take , I think I found some good stuff . I was able to texture the screaming
VITTI: What , are you self-medicating again ? And do n't give that decongestant multi-vitamin bullshit .
BEN: Do n't worry about me . Just worry about what you 're going to say to this parole officer . What are you going to say ? That you 've moved out of my house . That you 've got your old gang ack together . For what , a high school drop-out reunion ?
VITTI: I 'm gon na say that 's none of his fuckin ' business .
BEN: It 's my business . I want to know . I 'm a federal institution .
VITTI: You recognize that car ?
BEN: Which car ?
VITTI: The one that 's been following us the last mile and a half .
BEN: What do you mean , 'lose 'em ' ?
VITTI: No , they 're two cars back . You got ta e a little more observant , Doc . Turn left .
BEN: What if we just stop and get out ? They 're not going to shoot us in broad daylight .
VITTI: Broad daylight 's the best time . You can see better . Take a right . Now !
BEN: Sorry !
BEN: We ca n't do this , Paul ! We have to stop ! This is a lease ! GUNFIRE SHATTERS the rear WINDOW of the car .
VITTI: Move over . I 'll drive .
BEN: Move over ? Where ?
VITTI: Backseat . Now !
BEN: Seat belt .
VITTI: Hang on .
BEN: It 's gon na get worse ?
VITTI: What the fuck are you doing ?
BEN: I wanted to save the crossword .
VITTI: Throw it ! Bent throws the paper out the window .
BEN: You think they 'll get out ?
VITTI: Yeah , that 's James Bond and the 'Sea Hunt ' guy in there , so they got a pretty good shot .
BEN: Where 're you going ?
VITTI: I got ta take care of something .
BEN: But your parole officer
VITTI: Send my regrets .
BEN: I 'm warning you . If you leave now
VITTI: So long , Doc .
BEN: That 's it ! I 'm finished ! You 're on your own now , pal ! I 'm
CHAPIN: Where is he , Dr. Sobel ?
BEN: I wish I knew .
CHAPIN: Well , considering that he 's in you custody , that 's not quite the answer I was looking for . He 's got something ig in the works . You want to tell me what you know ?
BEN: I do n't know anything . As far as I can tell , he 's making a real effort to go straight .
CHAPIN: Yeah , that 's why I 've got two corpses at the bottom of the river .
BEN: I 'm getting that . Can I go now ? He starts for his car .
CHAPIN: You ca n't take your car . We 're impounding it as evidence .
BEN: Then can somebody give me a ride home ?
CHAPIN: Yeah , the government runs a limousine service . The number is 1-800-Fuck Off . Chapin walks away .
VITTI: I do n't have a lot of time . They 're probably gon na come lookin ' for me , so we 'll go over everything later , okay ?
JELLY: Paul , not that I 'm questioning , but what do we want with Eddie DeVol ? Guy 's a fuckin ' scumbag .
VITTI: Look , I 'm not happy about it , but if it keeps Patty off my back , so be it . They 're meeting us at the club . Let 's head out . Not all at once . I got ta tell you everything ?
TONY BELLA: Paul ! Excellent !
VITTI: Ca n't really talk right now , mate . Headin ' out .
TONY BELLA: Two seconds . Please , Paul . It 's eally important . Vitti looks pissed .
VITTI: Try kickin ' something . Let me know how it works out . Vitti starts for the door .
TONY BELLA: Wait , Paul . That 's interesting . Like what ?
VITTI: I do n't know . You could kick a guy in the face .
TONY BELLA: Who ?
VITTI: Just some guy ! You knock him down , give him a couple quick kicks in the head while he 's on the ground .
TONY BELLA: Why ?
VITTI: Why not ? Because he 's there and you 're pissed off .
TONY BELLA: You 've done that ?
VITTI: Maybe once or twice . Look , I got people waiting .
TONY BELLA: My character would n't do that . What else ?
VITTI: I do n't know . You could yell real loud ?
TONY BELLA: Yell real loud ? That 's original .
VITTI: Or keep your fuckin ' mouth shut ! Who gives a shit what you do , for cryin ' out loud ?
TONY BELLA: Who gives a shit what you do , fo cryin ' out loud ?
VITTI: What are you doin ' ?
TONY BELLA: What are you doin ' ?
VITTI: Okay , you can cut that shit out right now .
TONY BELLA: Okay , you can cut that shit out right now .
VITTI: Hey , I 'm serious , asshole !
TONY BELLA: Hey , I 'm serious , asshole !
BEN: Jelly ! Where 's Paul ? The guy in the suit turns . It 's Michael .
MICHAEL: Working .
BEN: You got a job ? That 's great . Look how handsome you look in that suit . What 's the job ?
MICHAEL: I 'm working for Mr. Vitti . I 'm his driver .
BEN: Oh , no , you 're not !
MICHAEL: You keep telling me to get a job !
BEN: I meant making sandwiches at the Subway , not driving a getaway car !
MICHAEL: He 's paying me twenty dollars an hour .
BEN: I do n't care if he pays you two hundred an hour , you 're not doing it .
MICHAEL: Dad
BEN: He had no right to ask you without my permission . Where is he ?
MICHAEL: I ca n't tell you .
BEN: What do you mean you ca n't tell me ?
MICHAEL: I promised I 'd never repeat anything I heard in the car . I took an oath .
BEN: You took an oath ! Oh , my God ! Was there blood involved ?
MICHAEL: Dad , I gave my word . Laura comes out of the house .
LAURA: Ben ? Where 've you been ? What happened to you ?
BEN: I was in a car chase . There was a little shooting not that much eally then they drove into the iver . It was n't as bad as it sounds .
LAURA: When is this going to end ?
BEN: Tonight , I hope . I just have to find him and
LAURA: Why ? A few days ago you were n't even sure you still wanted to be a therapist . Now you 're going to risk your life again for that lout .
BEN: Yeah , but he 's an amazing lout , is n't he ? I ca n't quit now . You know that .
LAURA: Go . Just do n't get shot please ?
BEN: I love you . They kiss . Then Ben turns to Michael .
MICHAEL: I ca n't .
LAURA: You tell your father right now or I 'll give you such a smack it wo n't even be funny !
MICHAEL: Okay ! I dropped him at the club .
BEN: What club ?
MICHAEL: Little Darling 's in Queens .
BEN: Okay , Mafiaboy , give me your car keys .
MICHAEL: I 'm grounded ?
BEN: No , I 'm borrowing your car . He kisses Laura again and takes off .
JELLY: Hey , Doc . What are you doin ' here ?
BEN: Where 's Paul ?
JELLY: I think she likes you , Doc . Give he a couple of bucks .
BEN: Can you break a twenty ?
VITTI: What are you doing here ?
BEN: I could ask you the same thing .
VITTI: What 's it look like ? We 're just lowin ' off a little steam . What 's the big deal ?
EDDIE: How 's it goin ' , Paulie ? You know my guys Enormous Bobby and Al Pacino ?
VITTI: Al Pacino ? That 's your real name ?
AL PACINO: No . People call me that because I look like Al Pacino . The actor .
VITTI: Anybody ever call you Carol Burnett ?
AL PACINO: No . Why ?
VITTI: 'Cause you look about as much like Carol Burnett as you look like Al Pacino . Ben laughs . Al Pacino glares at him .
BEN: I do see a little Pacino there around the eyes .
EDDIE: So we 're all here . Let 's do it .
BEN: Let 's do what ?
VITTI: You better get out of here .
BEN: I 'm not going until you tell me what 's going on here . Vitti violently shakes off Ben 's hand .
VITTI: Do n't make me hurt you . Get the fuck out of here . He walks away leaving Ben frozen .
EDDIE: What the fuck is this ?
ENORMOUS BOBBY: I found this guy listening at the door .
BEN: Hey , guys . How 's it going ?
EDDIE: Who is this guy ?
BEN: Ben Sobel . Sorry , I ca n't move my head to the right . Boy , I hope that 's not permanent .
EDDIE: Get rid of him . Al Pacino puts his gun to Ben 's head .
BEN: Hi , Carol .
AL PACINO: You 're a dead man , asshole . Let 's go .
VITTI: What are you doing ?
EDDIE: What do you think ? He can make every guy in this room .
BEN: Oh , I 'm not into that , fellas .
VITTI: Get your fuckin ' hands off him ! He 's with me .
EDDIE: What , on the job ? Vitti hesitates .
BEN: I think in is better .
VITTI: He 's in . He 's my responsibility .
EDDIE: Okay , no more surprises . And from this moment on , no one leaves my sight . Got it ? Now go through it one more time .
VITTI: Okay everybody listen up .
BEN: Wait ! Okay . Go ahead .
CERRONE: I wonder what it costs to keep that many limos waiting for three-and-a- half hours .
MILLER: Where 's Vitti ? I do n't see Vitti .
CERRONE: Damn it !
JELLY: Here . See if this 'll fit under you shirt .
BEN: I could fit you under my shirt . Do n't they have anything smaller ?
JELLY: This ai n't Bloomingdale 's . Nobody knew you were comin ' . You 're lucky you 're alive , Doc . He glances at Eddie DeVol .
BEN: Nobody 's going to be alive when this is over . What kind of plan is this ? It 's crazy . It 's stupid !
JELLY: Watch it . It may be crazy but it ai n't stupid . If you want to stay alive , just keep your mouth shut , do everything I tell you and try not to pee in your pants . Can you handle an M-16 ? He holds up an automatic rifle .
BEN: You mean shoot it ?
JELLY: No , I mean twirl it like a fuckin ' aton . How about an A.K . ?
BEN: Jelly
JELLY: Kalashnikov , MAC-10 , Uzi stop me if I hit one you like .
BEN: Could n't I just take this ?
JELLY: Yeah , that 's a good one . That gun ings back a lot of fond memories . Use it in good health .
BEN: Ooh , cold cold .
VITTI: Check the bus . Jelly exits .
BEN: You are making a huge mistake . You know that , do n't you ?
VITTI: You said it yourself . It 's my nature .
BEN: It 's not your nature ! You have a choice .
VITTI: What are you , fucking Jiminy Cricket ? I do n't know what planet you live on , ut here on Earth it 's 'might makes ight . ' Read the papers . The guys with the guns make the rules .
BEN: So I guess that makes me a real man now . What happened to the white hat , Paul ? Your father was n't wrong . You could be one of the good guys .
VITTI: Enough . Say one more word about my father and I 'll break your fuckin ' head .
BEN: Okay . Vitti walks off .
VITTI: I have five to three . They should start movin ' any minute .
BEN: I have three-o-six .
VITTI: Let 's see your watch .
VITTI: sees the signal .
BEN: Paul , it 's not too late . Do n't do this .
VITTI: Let 's go .
BEN: Shit ! Ow !
EDDIE: You know , this might just fuckin ' work .
BEN: You 're gon na get in so much trouble .
LIEUTENANT: They ca n't get over the wire .
CAPTAIN: Then knock down the gates !
VITTI: Forty bars . That 's all we need .
BEN: How much is that ?
VITTI: $ 350 an ounce , 16 ounces in a pound , 90 pounds in each bar do the math .
JELLY: Actually , gold is measured in troy ounces . 14.6 ounces to the pound . That would be $ 18,396,000 .
BEN: Really ?
JELLY: Give or take .
BEN: Well , so much for not peeing in my pants . Eddie goes off to help transfer the gold .
VITTI: Yeah ?
BEN: Sorry . What did I do ? What did I do ? I had a perfect life , I threw it away .
VITTI: Do n't do this .
BEN: I ca n't help it ! My life is over ! I 'm going to jail . Some people can handle prison I 'm not one of them . I have delicate features . I 'm small . I 'll be way too popular !
VITTI: Calm down .
BEN: I ca n't calm down ! I 'm gon na die !
VITTI: You 're not gon na die !
BEN: I ca n't breathe ! I 'm suffocating !
VITTI: For Chrissake , get hold of yourself !
BEN: I ca n't ! I 'm dying ! We 're all going to die !
VITTI: Yeah . Feel better now ?
BEN: I 'm sorry , Paul . I blame myself fo this . I wanted to help you . I wanted to be there for you . But I just was n't good enough .
VITTI: You were good . It is n't your fault .
BEN: No , it is . Since my fathe died I 've lost my way . I do n't know anything anymore . I mean , what 's the point ? I did n't think it would hit me so hard
VITTI: Would you just shut up about you father !
BEN: I 'm grieving , goddammit ! Have a little respect !
VITTI: He was an asshole you said it yourself . What are you grieving for ?
BEN: I 'm grieving for myself , you fucking idiot !
VITTI: Jeez , I 'm sorry .
BEN: Now I know how you must have felt when your father was killed . Vitti looks at him .
VITTI: We do n't have time for this .
BEN: It must 've been so painful !
VITTI: I 'm warning you do n't do this
BEN: I mean , it 's like all his hopes fo you died with him . And that 's so sad .
VITTI: There I go . You happy now ? You see what you 're doing here ? Both men are crying now .
BEN: Your father really loved you .
VITTI: I loved him , too . I did .
BEN: I know . I know .
JELLY: Oh , boy . This is bad .
EDDIE: Did you really think you were gon na live through this ?
VITTI: I had my hopes .
EDDIE: Yeah , well , nice work . Mr. Rigazzi will be very grateful .
BEN: Rigazzi ? I thought he worked fo Patti LoPresti .
VITTI: That 's what Patty thought , too . This scumbag 's been playin ' both sides against the middle .
EDDIE: There 's only one side as far as I 'm concerned . Mine . What did you think ? I was just gon na stand by and let some fuckin ' has-been move back in ? So long , Mr. Vitti .
BEN: I ca n't take it anymore ! That 's what I hate about you fucking sociopaths ! You just keep changing the rules to suit yourselves . Well , not this time , you anti-social asshole . You fucked with the wrong shrink !
VITTI: Yeah , what ?
CAPTAIN: On the floor ! Face-down ! Now !
AL PACINO: Nice goin ' . Good plan .
ENORMOUS BOBBY: What 's a sociopath ? The marshals handcuff them .
SWAT LEADER: They 're escaping out the back ! Get over there ! Move it !
CAPTAIN: Freeze ! Drop your weapons !
TONY BELLA: What the hell is this ?
RAOUL: Who are you ? What are you doing in my shot ?
CAPTAIN: What are you doing on my street ?
RAOUL: I have a permit !
CAPTAIN: I do n't give a shit about your permit ! The ASSISTANT DIRECTOR addresses the TV crew .
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR: All right , people . Back to one and let 's try it again ! Release the traffic and reset fo another take .
BEN: That 's it . We 're screwed .
LEAD SWAT: You !
BEN: Yes , Officer ?
LEAD SWAT: You 're one tough shrink .
BEN: Feeling pretty good , huh ?
VITTI: I felt worse .
BEN: So what now ? You go on the run fo the rest of your life ? Back to Sing Sing ? Or you turn up dead in an alley ?
VITTI: Those are my choices ? What happened to lying on a beach in Costa Rica for the next twenty years ? You ca n't let me enjoy this for five fuckin ' minutes ?
BEN: Five minutes ? And then what ?
VITTI: And then what ? I 'll show you .
CHAPIN: Acting on intelligence we developed in the last few days , the Justice Department and the F.B.I . took very aggressive action to recover the stolen gold and bring the perpetrators to justice . I 'm happy to tell the people of New York that the streets are safe again .
PATTY: Hi , Paul . How 'd it go ?
VITTI: Not so good .
PATTY: Yeah , I heard . It 's all over the television . I never should 've trusted Eddie . But , you know , a woman alone in the world is very vulnerable .
VITTI: Yeah , I know .
PATTY: At least I do n't have to worry about the Rigazzis no more . Thanks to you .
VITTI: I told you I just want to be left
PATTY: I know . I 'll make sure . How about some breakfast ? I could make you some waffles and whatever else you want .
VITTI: Ca n't do that . Patty smiles and shrugs .
PATTY: Well , if you ever change your mind Good luck , Paul .
BEN: Did you see Patti ?
VITTI: Yeah .
BEN: Did she grab your balls ?
VITTI: What kind of question is that ? She 's cool . She 's just happy to have 'the Wrench ' out of the way .
BEN: Well , I talked to the U.S. Attorney .
VITTI: Did he grab your balls ?
BEN: No , Paul , he did not grab my balls . He thanked me for tipping him off about the gold . And he said he wo n't e coming after you if you stay out of trouble . So what do you think ?
VITTI: I 'm gon na go to Ohio get Marie and the kids then we 'll probably disappear for awhile figure out all
BEN: Good idea . Change is hard , Paul . But you did the right thing .
VITTI: Yeah , you , too . You hung in there . That took a lot of guts .
BEN: Well , I just
VITTI: No , you were like an animal back there .
BEN: I just vented my displaced aggression
VITTI: No . I 'm telling you . You 're a monster . I saw the beast in you .
BEN: I 'm not a beast . I can handle myself if I have to
VITTI: Handle yourself ? You were fuckin ' John Wayne .
BEN: Well , I wrestled a bit in high school 122 pounds .
VITTI: Yeah , I could tell . You 're good , you .
BEN: I 'm not
VITTI: Paul , I just
BEN: Fine . I have a gift .
VITTI: So happy ending , huh ?
BEN: Well , I think so . Do n't you feel etter now ?
VITTI: Are you kidding ? I feel like shit . All that work for nothing . 20 million ucks .
BEN: You 're grieving it 's a process .
VITTI: Take it easy , Doc .
BEN: You , too , Paul .
VITTI: Hey , Doc ! 'There 's a place for us '
BEN: ' A time and place for us '
JELLY: 'Hold my hand we 're halfway there '
ALL TOGETHER: 'Hold my hand and I 'll take you there . Somehow , someday , somewhere . '
FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
WISEGUY: You wan na be a ribeye ? Get away from the fuckin ' car .
MANETTA: Anyway , Carlo Gambino came out of it capo de tutti capi , and that was the last time the whole commission tried to meet until now .
VITTI: I do n't know . I do n't like it . What do we need a meeting for ? Let everybody worry about thei own business . They finish eating .
MANETTA: The '57 meeting was about how we were going to divide up the whole country . This meeting is about how we 're gon na survive . You got 'made ' guys informing for the Feds ; bosses going to jail ; everybody 's dealing drugs ; people are getting whacked without permission . And on top of everything , now we got the Chinese Triads and these crazy Russians to deal with . Everything 's changing . We need a leader . Someone with fresh ideas . Someone like you . It 's gon na be a new century , Paul . We got ta change with the times .
VITTI: What are we gon na get , a fuckin ' web site ?
MANETTA: You remember what else happened in 1957 , Paul ?
VITTI: Yeah , I remember .
MANETTA: When your father died , I promised him I 'd always look out for you . Come to the meeting .
VITTI: Wait a second . I 'm just gon na grab a toothpick .
CAROLINE: I kept telling him that I needed oom to grow and find myself as a person . Not just as a woman but as an independent entity .
CAROLINE: I told him I needed to get in touch with my uniqueness , but he could n't handle that . He said I was driving him away . Do you think I was driving him away , Dr. Sobol ? Ben leans forward sympathetically .
BEN: Things end , Caroline . That 's just a part of life . It 's how we deal with things ending that 's important .
CAROLINE: I just ca n't believe it 's over between me and Steve . Maybe there 's still hope .
BEN: Well , he did take out a restraining order against you . I have to be honest , that 's usually not a good sign .
CAROLINE: But what should I do ?
BEN: Well , Caroline , I think the first thing you have to do is stop whining about this pathetic loser ! You 're a tragedy queen ! 'Steve does n't respect me . Steve does n't love me anymore . ' Who gives a shit ! Get a fucking life ! You are , without a doubt , the most oring human being I have ever met ! Please , say something interesting efore I lapse into a goddamn coma ! Caroline looks curiously at Ben , unperturbed .
CAROLINE: Dr. Sobol ?
BEN: Yes . Yes . I was just reflecting on your whole situation . It 's very interesting what you were just saying . I want you to think about it , and I 'm going to think about it , so we 'll both think about it and we 'll continue next week when I get back from my vacation . Caroline bursts into tears again .
MICHAEL: You 're late .
BEN: I know . I could n't get rid of my last patient . I think she was a tick in a past life .
MICHAEL: Yeah , what 's Caroline 's problem ? Your boyfriend 's gone , he hates your guts , get over it .
BEN: Michael ! What did I tell you ? You ca n't listen to my sessions ! It 's private stuff .
MICHAEL: I ca n't help it . I hear you through the vent in my room .
BEN: Funny how that happens when you lie on the floor and put your ea up against it .
MICHAEL: Okay , okay . How 's that guy who dreams about shitting trout ?
BEN: Fine . He moved up to striped ass . Put on your cummerbund . Boy , have you grown . Did you mother move next door to a nuclear power plant ?
MICHAEL: Why do we have to wear rented clothes to Grandpa 's party ? This lows .
BEN: We have to dress up because Grandpa ca n't have a good time unless everyone else is extremely uncomfortable . Forget the tux . Regular clothes . Ben exits , pulling off the tux shirt .
MICHAEL: Are you ambivalent about Grandpa Isaac ?
BEN: She 's not supposed to do that , you know .
MICHAEL: Oh , yeah . She really cares . She says you 're intimidated by women your own age , and that 's why you go for these young babes .
BEN: Okay . Listen , for two seconds , pretend I 'm not your father . I 'm just some guy , okay ?
MICHAEL: You gon na vent ?
BEN: Yeah . I hate her ! I really hate her ! Okay . Dad again . Let 's go .
VITTI: So what did you find out ?
JELLY: The word is Primo Sindone must have ordered it , but , uh He hesitates .
VITTI: What ? Jelly looks at Jimmy .
JELLY: A lot of people think you set him up .
VITTI: Why the fuck would I want to kill Dominic ? He was like a father to me .
JELLY: So you could be the big boss . Everybody figures you 're lookin ' to wipe out the competition before the big meeting .
VITTI: Oh , is that what they figure ?
JELLY: It 's alright with me if you did
VITTI: I did n't kill him ! I told you that ! Do n't you hear ?
NICKY: Please , Mr. Vitti , I told 'em I do n't know anything but they do n't elieve me 'cause that one time I said Little Joe hit Dukey and it turned out he did n't but I did n't know because
JIMMY: Shut the fuck up !
VITTI: Nicky , you know me , right ?
NICKY: Yeah . You 're Mr. Vitti .
VITTI: And you know what I 'm gon na do to you if you lie to me , right ?
NICKY: Uh , you 're gon na crack me on the head with that pipe ?
JIMMY: It 's a rhetorical question , you fuckin ' idiot .
VITTI: I 'm only gon na ask you this one time . Who killed Dominic Manetta ?
NICKY: I do n't know .
VITTI: Do n't fuckin ' lie to me !
NICKY: Honest to God , I do n't know !
VITTI: You little rat bastard
VITTI: Forget about it . He does n't know anything . He tosses the pipe aside .
BEN: Look at this . Everybody 's nuts . Ooh , I hate walking into that house late .
MICHAEL: I think you 're reacting like this ecause you 're mad we have to go to this party .
BEN: No . Do n't . I 'm not going to be analyzed by someone who up until a few years ago believed in Santa . Sorry , but we only have oom for one Dr. Sobol in this family .
MICHAEL: But there 's two Dr. Sobols . There 's you and Grandpa .
BEN: Can we talk about something else ?
MICHAEL: Are you going to read Grandpa 's new book ? Mom says you wo n't ecause you 're
BEN: Does your mother talk about anything else or is it just me twenty-four hours a day ?
JIMMY: What 's the matter with you ? Are you some kind of moron ?
BEN: I 'm sorry . It 's totally my fault .
JIMMY: Did you see anything ?
BEN: I was talking to my son . I took my eyes off the road
JIMMY: Forget that bullshit . Did you see anything ?
JELLY: That 's all right , sir . It 's ou fault for being in front of you like that .
BEN: Well , I should have been watching . Let me give you my insurance information
JELLY: It 's okay . Forget about it .
BEN: Really ? It looks like your whole ear end might be screwed up .
JELLY: No , it was like that before .
BEN: Maybe we should call the police ?
JELLY: Why ? Fuck the police .
BEN: Right ! Fuck 'em . HORNS start HONKING behind them .
JELLY: You 're a doctor ?
BEN: Ph.D . Psychologist .
JELLY: A shrink . You talk to a lotta nuts , huh ? Ben hears KICKING from inside the car trunk .
JELLY: Pings and knocks . Cheap gas . Hey , how do those minivans handle ?
ISAAC: All right , neurotics only ! Well , you must have been a beautiful a-a-by , 'cause baby look at you now , thank God for Prozac , baby look at you now !
BEN: What do you mean you 're not coming ? It 's my wedding .
DOROTHY: We understand it 's a special day for you , Benny , but your fathe and I ca n't just pick up and leave town every time you decide to get married .
BEN: Every time ? This is a once-in-a- twice-in-a-lifetime thing . Isaac joins them .
ISAAC: We want to be there , but I have three book signings next weekend . I ca n't piss off these big book stores . If I cancel , they 'll stick me down on the bottom shelf . That 's how they are .
BEN: Yeah , that 's the word on the street . The self-help book usiness is full of vindictive pricks .
DOROTHY: Ben ! The language .
BEN: I 'm sorry , but I 've been alone for eight years , now I 've finally met someone I want to spend the est of my life with and I would eally like you to meet he efore we get married . You 're going to be her family . I think it 's better she knows that up front .
ISAAC: You 're really hostile tonight .
BEN: I 'm joking .
DOROTHY: I think I 'll go talk to the mayor .
BEN: The mayor 's here ?
DOROTHY: I can only hope .
ISAAC: What 's wrong ?
BEN: Nothing . Everything 's fine .
ISAAC: How 's your practice ?
BEN: It 's great . Just great . I 've got some very interesting patients extremely interesting . Fascinating actually .
MICHAEL: Dad has a patient who dreams he shits trout .
BEN: Thanks , Mike .
ISAAC: Excuse us , Michael . Isaac pulls Ben into the foyer .
BEN: I 'm just not sure I could spend my life dealing with people whose iggest crisis is how to fire the maid .
ISAAC: It beats a guy with an ass full of flounder .
BEN: Trout ! And do n't minimize my practice .
ISAAC: Why are you getting so defensive ? This is about your own feelings of inadequacy .
BEN: You always turn it back on me . Why do you do that ?
ISAAC: Why do you think I do that ?
BEN: Why do you think I think you do that ? Go ahead , now you ask me why I think you think I think you do that .
ISAAC: Enough . I want you to think about what I said . And when you 're ready to talk to me like a normal person , I 'll be at the piano with Regis Philbin . Rege !
REGIS PHILBIN: I 'm not singing , Isaac !
ISAAC: Now , ladies and gentlemen , at the piano , Regis Philbin !
BEN: Thomas Wolfe was right . You ca n't go home again because you parents still live there .
MASIELLO: The Manetta family is asking a lot of questions . They think we hit Dominic .
MANGANO: Forget Dominic ! They were afte Paul . It 's a miracle you survived . I thank God .
VITTI: Yeah , thank God . All I know is if I did n't have some veal stuck in my teeth , I 'd be laying there with Dominic .
JOHNNY BIGS: This is all about the big meeting . Primo Sindone wants to run the whole show .
MANGANO: Yeah , but Primo 's a boss . He knows the rules . He could n't go after Dominic and Paul unless the other families gave thei permission .
VITTI: If they did , we 're heading for one ig fuckin ' war . Talk to Zello and Baldassare . Find out what you can . We got two weeks . If the other New York osses are against us , I want to know it before I walk into that meeting . He feels a stabbing pain in his chest .
MANGANO: You all right , Paul ? You do n't look good .
VITTI: I 'm a little choked up here . I got ta get some air .
JELLY: You feel all right ?
VITTI: I feel like shit . This whole thing is like a huge fuckin ' headache .
JELLY: You havin ' one of those mindgrains ?
VITTI: Get the car .
DOCTOR: Good news , Mr. Evans . Your heart is just fine .
VITTI: How could it be fine ? I 've had like eight heart attacks in the last three weeks .
DOCTOR: Well , based on everything , I 'd say you probably had an anxiety attack .
VITTI: What ?
DOCTOR: An anxiety attack . A panic attack . I can give you some Xanax if it happens again soon
VITTI: Look at me . Do I look like a guy who panics ?
DOCTOR: There 's nothing I mean it 's a common thing
VITTI: Where did you go to medical school ? I had a heart attack , you quack bastard .
DOCTOR: Well , not according to these
VITTI: Listen to me , jerk-off . I had a mild heart attack and now it 's over . You understand ?
DOCTOR: Yes .
VITTI: Good . Take the chart .
JELLY: Anything .
VITTI: You have to find me a doctor .
JELLY: We just came from the doctor .
VITTI: Not that kind of doctor . I need a head doctor .
JELLY: You 're gon na change your face like Sonny Black ? Do n't get his nose though , he looks like a pig .
VITTI: Not a plastic surgeon , ya spoostud . Do I have to spell everything out ?
JELLY: It saves time .
VITTI: I need you to find me a psychiatrist .
JELLY: Wow . This is like the Psychic Network or something . I just ran into a psychiatrist . Actually he an into me .
VITTI: Is he any good ?
JELLY: Yeah , he seemed like a smart guy . He had a business card and everything
VITTI: He had a card ? That 's a real fuckin ' achievement .
JELLY: What do you need a shrink fo anyway ?
VITTI: It 's not for me . It 's for a friend . This friend is having some problems , so I 'm going to ask the shrink some questions and get some answers for my friend .
JELLY: Got it .
VITTI: And nobody can know . If anyone hears I 'm talking to a shrink , it could be interpreted the wrong way . You know what I mean ?
JELLY: Of course . Absolutely . Can I ask you one thing ?
VITTI: What ?
JELLY: This friend . Is it me ?
BEN: Carl , I 'm detecting a pattern here . You seem to settle too easily for things .
CARL: You 're right . I do .
BEN: No , well , there you go . You just did it again . I suggested something and you immediately agreed .
CARL: You 're right . I did .
BEN: Why do you think you do that ?
CARL: I do n't know .
BEN: Well , sometimes people do it ecause they fear rejection o disapproval , but you ca n't let that worry you , Carl . And you ca n't agree with things just fo the sake of agreeing . Stand your ground . Do n't let people oll over you . The door opens and Jelly enters .
JELLY: Dr. Sobol ?
BEN: Excuse me ! I 'm in a session here .
JELLY: Yeah , I know , I 'm sorry .
BEN: You 're You 're one of the guys I rear-ended the other night .
JELLY: Bingo . Get outta here .
BEN: What are you doing ?
JELLY: He 's leaving .
BEN: The hell he is . He 's not going anywhere until we 're done with his session .
JELLY: I 'll give you a hundred bucks to get out of here .
BEN: Do n't take it , Carl . Carl looks back to Jelly .
JELLY: A hundred and fifty .
BEN: He 's not leaving .
CARL: Three hundred .
JELLY: You 're not that fuckin ' crazy .
BEN: Listen , if you 're upset about you car , I can understand that . But you do n't just barge in here
VITTI: You know who I am ?
BEN: Yes .
VITTI: No you do n't .
BEN: Okay .
VITTI: You 've seen my picture in the papers ?
BEN: Yes . And no . Sometimes . Never .
VITTI: Jelly , wait outside .
BEN: Sure .
VITTI: Tony Bennett , huh ?
BEN: Yeah . He 's my favorite .
VITTI: I was just gon na ask if you liked aseball .
BEN: Yes . Big Yankee fan . Vitti puts the bat down .
VITTI: I do n't care about the car .
BEN: Then what ?
VITTI: A friend of mine is having a problem and he might have to see a shrink , so I 'm going to ask you a couple questions . Do we sit ?
BEN: Whatever makes you comfortable .
VITTI: Okay , the first thing I got ta know about is privacy . You must hea a lot of weird shit in here . How do I know you wo n't go testifying not testifying but , you know , talking about it to somebody else .
BEN: I wo n't discuss a patient with anyone for any reason , unless I know the patient may be a dange to himself . Like if I 'm concerned a patient might kill himself
VITTI: Not fuckin ' likely
BEN: or kill someone else .
VITTI: So who starts ?
BEN: Why do n't you tell me why you think you need therapy ?
VITTI: I do n't need therapy . I 'm helping out my friend . You did n't hear me say that ?
BEN: Right . I 'm sorry .
VITTI: You guys are supposed to be so great when it comes to listening . You ca n't remember what I said two seconds ago .
BEN: I 'm very sorry .
VITTI: I have to tell you , Doc , I 'm not thrilled with the level of service up to this point .
BEN: Why do n't you tell me about you friend ?
VITTI: He 's a powerful guy . Never had a problem dealing with things , you know ? Now all of a sudden , he 's falling apart . He cries for no reason . He 's having trouble sleeping . And then he started having these attacks . You know , ca n't breathe , dizzy , chest pains like you think you 're gon na die .
BEN: Panic attacks .
VITTI: What 's with all you doctors and the fuckin ' panic ? Did I say panic ?
BEN: Not panic . Dizzy breathing chest pain attacks .
VITTI: Right . So the question is , what can he do to make it stop ? Ben decides to go for it .
BEN: I 'm going to go out on a lim here . I think your friend is you .
VITTI: You you you you have a gift , my friend . Go on .
BEN: Medication could help , but if you eally want to get to the bottom of this , you 're going to want to get some kind of therapy .
VITTI: With you ?
BEN: With me ? Oh , I do n't know . I 'd have to look at my schedule . I 'm very heavily booked right now and I 'm going on a short vacation tomorrow .
VITTI: Where you going ?
BEN: I do n't really share that information with
VITTI: Where ?
BEN: Miami Beach .
VITTI: You know , this could be good . Just getting that off my chest , I feel etter already . It 's like a load is off my shoulders . Thank you .
BEN: Well , I really did n't do anything
VITTI: You did something . The load ? Off . Where is it ? Do n't know . You 're good , Doctor . I 'll be in touch . But listen to me . If I talk to you and it turns me into a fag , I 'll kill you . You understand ?
BEN: Could we define 'fag , ' because some feelings may come up Vitti silences him with a wave of his hand .
VITTI: I go fag , you die . Got it ?
BEN: Yes .
MICHAEL: I did n't . Hey , Dad ? One thing though .
BEN: Yeah ?
MICHAEL: I go fag , you die .
BEN: Michael ! That 's it ! I am sealing that vent .
MICHAEL: You are so cool , Dad . Was that eally Paul Vitti ?
BEN: I did n't ask to see his Mafia decoder ring , but yeah , it was him . And you can not tell anyone he was here . You understand ?
MICHAEL: Should I take it off the internet ?
BEN: What ?
MICHAEL: I 'm kidding !
LAURA: So judging from the mob scene around the pool here today , I think you 'd have to say that there 's nothing 'off ' about the 'off-season ' in Miami Beach this summer . Now , on a personal note , this is my last report fo W.V.B.F . I 'm getting married to a wonderful man and moving to New York , so if you 're up that way , watch for me on the W.P.I.X . news team . Thanks fo everything , Miami . For the last time , this is Laura MacNamara , W.V.B.F . news .
PRODUCER: We 're clear . Laura 's smile abruptly disappears .
LAURA: I 'll do the re-asks , then you guys can just shoot the inserts and pack it up . Ben !
BEN: Hi , everybody .
LAURA: Oh , I missed you .
BEN: I missed you too . Michael , say hello .
MICHAEL: Hi , Laura .
LAURA: This is Michael ? I do n't think so . If I remember correctly , Michael was a little boy , and this , this is a great big kid . Hey , you . Tell us what you did with Michael Sobol .
MICHAEL: No , it was nice , but I 'm fourteen so it was n't you know age appropriate .
LAURA: Sorry . Just smack me if I do that again . How are you , Michael ?
MICHAEL: Great .
BEN: Mike , you want to go look at the camera ?
MICHAEL: Why would I want to look at the camera ?
BEN: 'Cause I bet there 's all kinds of cool video stuff over there . Why do n't you check it out ?
MICHAEL: Oh , yeah . Is it okay ?
LAURA: Go ahead . If you break something , do n't worry . I 'm out of here . Michael crosses to the camera crew .
BEN: Michael ? He 's crazy about you . I am too . They embrace .
LAURA: You are ? And you still really want to get married ?
BEN: Of course .
LAURA: But what if you get tired of me ? I know so many couples that were eally happy , then they got married and just completely lost interest in each other .
BEN: That 's not going to be us .
LAURA: I just do n't want to lose the passion .
BEN: Yes , I 'm brimming with passion . I 'm up to here with passion .
LAURA: I want us to be like animals . You know just screaming and sweating and tearing at each other all the time
BEN: The sweating should n't be a problem . The tearing sounds painful . The SOUND GUY crosses over .
SOUND GUY: Uhh , Laura ? You want me to take your mic , or at least turn it off ?
LAURA: Oh my God .
SHEILA: Oh , yes . Oh , yes . Is everything okay , Paul ?
VITTI: What are you talking for ? I 'm trying to do this here .
SHEILA: You seem distracted .
VITTI: I got things on my mind . Stop talking .
SHEILA: Okay , I 'm sorry . Just relax , aby . He goes back to lovemaking .
VITTI: No , I was n't thinking about my wife . Now I 'm thinking about my wife . Goddamn it , Sheila , why ca n't you keep your mouth shut !
SHEILA: I 'm sorry , Paul .
BEN: Mom ?
JELLY: Mr. Vitti wants to see you . I have your robe .
VITTI: I got news for you . I 'm still fucked up . Whatever you did the other day , it did n't take . You did nothing for me .
BEN: I did nothing ? What did you expect ? I saw you for five minutes . I do n't work miracles , Mr. Vitti . And I 'll tell you something else . I do n't appreciate it when someone breaks into my hotel room and kidnaps me . I do n't go for that . I have a family and a life and a serious practice , and I do n't have time for you ullshit ! That got away from me near the end . Vitti stares at Ben .
VITTI: I could n't get it up tonight .
BEN: You mean sexually ?
VITTI: No , I mean for the big game against Michigan State . Of course sexually !
BEN: You flew fifteen hundred miles and dragged me out of bed in the middle of the night because you could n't get an erection ?
VITTI: Does n't that prove I 'm motivated ?
BEN: You can take a pill for that , you know .
VITTI: No , that 's a cheat . You start with the pills , next thing you know you got implants with pumps . I think a hard-on should be gotten legitimately or not at all .
BEN: Did you see that embroidered on a pillow somewhere ?
VITTI: Are you gon na help me or not ?
BEN: I do n't believe this . All right . Has this happened before ?
VITTI: The dead dick thing ? Never . Well , one time . Tonight . And another time .
BEN: So twice ?
VITTI: Do the math . Two times . There was another time . But it was after a big meal , so , you know , that do n't count .
BEN: Listen , being unable to perform three or four times
VITTI: Five .
BEN: Five times it is n't the end of the world .
VITTI: Maybe not to you look at you ut if I ca n't get it up , that makes me less of a man and I ca n't have that .
BEN: Okay .
VITTI: I have until the end of the week to get strong or they 're gon na eat me up . If they do n't kill me in the meantime .
BEN: What happens next week ?
VITTI: I ca n't tell you and you do n't want to know .
BEN: It 's impossible . I ca n't do anything that fast . And even if I could , what 's my goal here ? To make you a happy , well-adjusted gangster ?
VITTI: Look , the other day I saw a commercial on television , some kid playing with a couple of puppies . I cried for 45 minutes . Slap a pair of tits on me , I 'm a woman !
BEN: I 'm sorry . I ca n't help you .
VITTI: You 're turning me down ?
BEN: Mr. Vitti , when I got into family therapy , this was not the family I had in mind . I 'm turning you down .
VITTI: You with your schmucky little office in your schmucky little house out there in Schmuckville you 're turning me down ? What , so you can spend more time listening to housewives piss and moan about how nobody fucks them right ?
BEN: I 'd like to go now .
VITTI: You see this ? This is what I 'm talking about ! I 'm a dead man ! Ben turns away and starts for the door .
BEN: All right . What happened with your wife tonight ?
VITTI: I was n't with my wife . I was with my girlfriend .
BEN: You have a girlfriend ? We could do two months on that alone .
VITTI: What , you 're gon na start moralizing with me now ?
BEN: Okay . Do you have marriage problems ?
VITTI: No .
BEN: Then why do you have a girlfriend ?
VITTI: I do things with her I ca n't do with my wife .
BEN: Why ca n't you do those things with your wife ?
VITTI: Hey . That 's the mouth she kisses my children good night with . What 's the matter with you ?
BEN: Okay , okay . Have you been under a lot of stress lately ?
VITTI: You mean like seeing your best friend murdered ? Yeah , I got stress .
BEN: Well , based on what you told me efore about your attacks , I 'd say that 's probably it then .
VITTI: It 's just stress ?
BEN: I doubt if there 's anything physically wrong with you .
VITTI: You . You . You 're very good .
BEN: There 's a lot more to it
VITTI: No , you 're right . You 're right on the money . I can feel the juices ushing back to my manhood as we speak .
BEN: Well , I did n't need to know that .
VITTI: This settles it . You 're my shrink .
BEN: I ca n't treat you , Mr. Vitti . I do n't think you 're really ready to open up and deal with
VITTI: Listen to you . The honesty . Nobody and I mean nobody talks to me like this . I 'm ready . Let 's do it .
BEN: You do n't hear the word 'no ' that often , do you ?
VITTI: I hear it all the time . Only it 's more like , 'No , no , please , no ! '
BEN: All right . I 'm here for two more days . When we get back to New York , I 'll treat you exclusively for two weeks . I just need to figure out what to tell my othe patients .
VITTI: You want me to clear your schedule for you ?
BEN: No thanks , I 'll handle it . Now can I go ?
VITTI: Thank you .
LAURA: What is wrong with you ? I woke up , you were gone , no note o anything . I 've been going out of my mind , Ben . I walked all ove the hotel looking for you . I almost called the police !
BEN: Okay , listen . I 'm going to tell you the truth . I had a serious patient emergency .
LAURA: You have patients in Florida ?
BEN: Just one . He followed me here from New York . I had to go .
LAURA: Who is this patient ?
BEN: Paul Vitti ! Paul Vitti . A long beat .
LAURA: Oh , Ben .
BEN: I know . But do n't worry . It 's not like he 's a real patient . He 's got this idea in his head that I 'm helping him . It 's crazy .
LAURA: You 're not going to treat him .
BEN: No .
LAURA: Tell me you 're not .
BEN: I 'm not !
LAURA: That would be too scary . You do n't want a person like that in your life , believe me . I 've covered the mob down here . I 've seen what they can do .
BEN: Listen , it 's been taken care of . I told him I could n't see him again . He understood and it 's over .
LAURA: You sure ? Ben nods .
MOONY: It does n't figure . We take out Manetta , what does Vitti do ? Nothing . Why does n't he move ?
SINDONE: Fuck him .
MOONY: I 'm telling you , Primo , he 's planning something big . The shit is really gon na come down .
SINDONE: Then let it come down . Vitti 's a tough guy but a lot of tough guys got fed to the crabs off Red Hook over the years . You been down there a long time . Are you measuring my inseam o contemplating a lifestyle change ? Sindone nods for the tailor to get out .
MOONY: Primo ? What about Vitti ?
SINDONE: Vitti . Vitti . The whole time we were growing up , he was the smart guy ; I was the dope . My fathe was a nickel-and-dime shitheel ; his father had it all . Vito Genovese blew it at Apalachin ecause he forgot to kill Gambino efore the meeting .
HANDSOME JACK: You got it , Primo .
LAURA: Come on . Get into it .
BEN: I do n't understand . They jump out of the water , they splash , they eat fish . It 's not a real stretch for a whale . If they did a number from West Side Story , then I 'd be into it .
LAURA: Just stop . We 're having fun , right ?
MICHAEL: Well , to be real honest . I 'm not having as much fun as it looks like I am . I 'm pretending , you know , because we have to ond and everything .
BEN: You 've got to admire the openness .
MICHAEL: Here comes the whale again !
JIMMY: Fuck me !
BEN: I 'm hungry . Yeah , I 'm going to get a hot dog . Who wants a hot dog ?
MICHAEL: I 'll go with you .
BEN: No , I 'll go . You 're pretending to have a good time . I do n't want to spoil that . Be right ack .
BEN: What is this ? Are you guys following me ?
JIMMY: Fuckin ' fifteen-hundred dolla suit . You think the whales piss in that water ?
JELLY: No , I think they use the men 's oom next door at the Burger King . Mr. Vitti wants to see you .
BEN: Is this a joke ?
JELLY: You 're an employee of Mr. Vitti 's . That means you 're on call twenty- four hours a day just like the est of us .
BEN: No , he and I discussed this . I told him I 'd see him when I got got back to New York .
JELLY: Do n't be a skavootz . It is what it is . If he needs you sooner , you go .
BEN: No , I 'm not going , and if you other me again I wo n't treat him at all . Understand ? That 's it . End of story .
BOY: Asshole .
BEN: They threw me in the shark tank , Paul . The shark tank !
VITTI: They were trying to make a point .
BEN: What , that you 're a scary guy ? I get it .
VITTI: You 're in a mood , you know that ?
BEN: Yeah , I get that way when a shark tries to chew on my ass .
VITTI: Okay . Okay . Calm down .
BEN: I do n't want to calm down . My girl friend saw me all wet ? I told her I fell into a tank with the manatees . I lied to her last night , now this . I do n't like it .
VITTI: Manatees . That 's a funny word . Manatees .
BEN: I 'm glad you 're entertained . What 's the problem ?
VITTI: Oh , I can tell you really care .
BEN: Okay . What 's going on ?
VITTI: I had an episode . Not an actual panic attack , but I started panicking a little thinking I might have one . Does that seem weird to you ?
BEN: I 'm redefining 'weird ' on an hourly basis . What were you thinking about when you started feeling anxious ?
VITTI: I do n't know . The usual bullshit . Family problems .
BEN: Which family ? This one ?
VITTI: No , regular family .
BEN: I want you to draw a picture of a house . In the sand .
VITTI: What kind of house ? A warehouse ? A whorehouse ? My house ? What house ?
BEN: A house .
VITTI: Why ?
BEN: I 'll tell you after you do it .
VITTI: This is good . I come to Florida and draw pictures in the sand like a jerkoff .
TINO: I do n't know what they 're doing . He 's talking to some guy . Looks like Vitti is drawing something in the sand What 's he drawing ? What am I , Superman ? I 'm a hundred yards away I ca n't see shit No way , he 's got that fat Jelly with him and his partner , Jimmy Boots . We could take him out with a rifle and a scope , but I do n't have any of that shit with me . My scope 's in the shop Nah , it 's a warranty item Hey , do n't sweat it . You told me to take care of him , I 'll take care of him Okay , I 'll call you ack .
VITTI: There . You happy ?
BEN: Where are the people ?
VITTI: What people ? You told me to draw a house .
BEN: I know . But usually when people draw a house they draw people . Where are the people who live in your house ?
VITTI: Well , you see , they 'd come out and say hello , but the whole family 's in the Witness Protection Program . It 's very sad . What the fuck you want from me ? They start walking .
BEN: Okay , forget the house . I 'm going to say some words , and you say the first thing that comes into your mind .
VITTI: Good , more games . Shoot .
BEN: Home
VITTI: plate .
BEN: Mother
VITTI: fucker .
BEN: Father
VITTI: forgive me for I have sinned .
BEN: Wife ?
VITTI: Love .
BEN: Son ? Vitti looks out to sea .
VITTI: See this ? Again with the crying . Let 's get out of here . We 're eing watched . Do n't look . There 's Feds on the roof of the hotel .
BEN: How do you know that ?
VITTI: I 'm a criminal . It 's my job .
AGENT RICCI: Who 's the new face ?
AGENT STEADMAN: I do n't know . Get somebody down there to see what he drew in the sand .
AGENT PROVANO: Whoever this guy is , he must be important to the family .
AGENT STEADMAN: Maybe he 's Vitti 's new consigliere . Put his picture on the wire and see what you come up with .
VITTI: Look at this , the whole crew . You all right ? Good flight ?
MARIE: Yeah , we 're fine . We 're on ou way to the pool . Kids , get you stuff . We 'll get out of your way .
VITTI: That 's okay . Marie , this is a friend of mine , Ben Sobol . He 's from the boat . A fishing oat captain . Cuban refugee .
MARIE: Nice to meet you , Senor Sobol . Ben looks to Vitti , then to Marie .
BEN: Gracias .
VITTI: And this is Theresa and Anna
ANNA: Anne .
VITTI: Anna , and the big guy , Anthony . Anthony gives Ben a manly handshake .
ANTHONY: How you doin ' ?
BEN: Nice to meet you .
VITTI: Jesus , Theresa , you are not wearing that suit to the pool .
THERESA: What do you want me to wear , a one-piece ?
VITTI: I want you to wear one of those Arab bathrobes with a veil ove your face , is what I want .
THERESA: Mom !
MARIE: Do n't worry about it , Paul . We 'll e back in time for dinner .
VITTI: Okay , babe . Hey , Anthony . Guess what I got ?
ANTHONY: What ?
VITTI: Marlins and the Braves right ehind home plate , tonight .
ANTHONY: You and me ?
VITTI: Of course , you and me . Have fun at the pool . Stay out of the deep end . And do n't swim for a couple hours after you eat .
ANTHONY: Okay , Papa .
VITTI: Send Jimmy down with them .
JELLY: Already done . Jelly exits .
BEN: Nice family . Cuban fishing boat captain ?
VITTI: I ca n't tell Marie you 're a shrink . She 'd worry , you know .
BEN: About this ? I think she 'd be more worried about your caree choice .
VITTI: Just keep going with the therapy .
BEN: You know , normally a patient would n't smoke or drink during a session .
VITTI: That 's an interesting fact I 'll have to remember if I 'm ever on 'Jeopardy . '
BEN: So tell me about your father .
VITTI: My father . He was a big man in the neighborhood very well espected . Everybody loved him , God rest his soul .
BEN: He passed away ?
VITTI: No , I just like saying 'God rest his soul . ' Yeah , he passed away . He died when I was about twelve .
BEN: How ?
VITTI: Heart attack . Sudden thing .
BEN: Were you and your father close ?
VITTI: Close ? Yeah , you know , pretty close . I guess we were n't getting along that great right then .
BEN: Why was that ?
VITTI: I was hangin ' out in the neighborhood . I had a borghata like a kid gang hooligan shit , nothin ' big . But my father did n't like it .
BEN: You fought about it ?
VITTI: He slapped the shit out of me .
BEN: And then ?
VITTI: And then that night he died .
BEN: How did that feel ?
VITTI: It felt great ! How did it feel ? I do n't know .
BEN: Well , think about it . Were you angry , were you afraid ? Sad ?
VITTI: Yeah , I guess .
BEN: Any feelings of guilt ?
VITTI: About what ? I did n't kill him .
BEN: I 'm just speculating , but maybe in some way you wanted him to die .
VITTI: Why would I want my father to die ?
BEN: Well , you said you were fighting . You were rebelling against his authority . There may have been some unresolved Oedipal conflict .
VITTI: English .
BEN: Oedipus was a Greek king who killed his father and married his mother .
VITTI: Fuckin ' Greeks .
BEN: It 's an instinctual developmental drive . The young boy wants to eplace his father so he can totally possess his mother .
VITTI: Are you saying I wanted to fuck my mother ?
BEN: It 's a primal fantasy
VITTI: Have you seen my mother ? That is the sickest fucking thing I 've ever heard .
BEN: It 's Freud .
VITTI: Well , then Freud 's a sick fuck , and you are too for bringing it up .
BELINDA: Well , is n't this wonderful , all of us finally getting to spend some time together .
SCOTT: All set for the big day , Ben ?
BEN: Ca n't wait , Scott . Can I call you 'Scott ? '
SCOTT: My friends call me 'Captain . '
BEN: Captain .
BELINDA: Well , if tomorrow goes as well as the rehearsal , I 'd say it 's going to be a beautiful wedding .
BEN: Yes , thanks for going to all this trouble , and I have to thank you and the Captain for something else .
SCOTT: For what ?
BEN: For this .
LAURA: Would you like a drink , because I 'm definitely having eight o nine .
BELINDA: Shall we go to the table ?
SCOTT: Ben , there 's a lot I 'd like to say to you , but I 'm going to skip the big father-in-law speech because I know you 've een married before .
BEN: Technically , it was n't considered a marriage . It was like the Korean War more of a police action .
SCOTT: I served in Korea , son . I do n't think you 'd be laughing if you 'd seen some of the things I saw .
BEN: You 're right . Sorry .
VITTI: Look at everybody . Everybody 's smiling , everybody 's happy . Nice . This is Marie , my girls , my boy , then all these guys .
BEN: Mr. and Mrs. Vitti , this is Laura , my fiancee .
VITTI: Nice to meet you .
LAURA: Thank you very much . A tense moment . Ben presses on .
BEN: And this is my son Michael .
VITTI: Whoa . He 's a bruiser . You 're sure this is your kid ? You 're a pound and a half soaking wet . I 've had lobsters bigge than you . You ever want a job , you come talk to me , right ?
MICHAEL: Seriously ?
BEN: Michael !
SCOTT: You 're Paul Vitti . The mobster .
BEN: Mr. MacNamara uh
VITTI: Excuse me . Is that polite ? Is it ? I 'm trying to be nice here . Do I walk up to you and go , 'You 're whoever you are . The prick ' ?
MARIE: Paul !
BEN: Mr. Vitti , this is Laura 's father .
VITTI: Yeah ? Okay , well , sorry . But you should know , there is no mob , and , P.S. , I personally have never been convicted of a crime . We 're nine for nine , right ?
JELLY: That 's right .
VITTI: I heard about the wedding . Here you go . A little something fo the bride and groom . God bless . You should live and be well .
LAURA: Mr. Vitti , we ca n't accept this .
VITTI: Yeah , you can . Now , if you do n't mind , I just need to borrow this guy for a couple of minutes , then that 's it . I 'm out of here . Okay ?
LAURA: Okay . Then you leave us alone , ight ?
VITTI: Of course . I would n't do anything to screw up your wedding . I got ta talk to you . Come on . Have a great night , everybody . Nice to meet you . Vitti starts for the door .
BEN: I 've just got to talk to him for a sec . You okay ?
LAURA: I 've never been less okay .
BEN: Great .
MARIE: I bet you eat a lot of fish since your fiance 's in the business . Laura stares .
VITTI: Watch that door . And do n't listen to what we say .
JELLY: My ears are sealed .
VITTI: Okay , listen . I had a really weird dream last night .
BEN: I feel like I 'm having one right now . How could you interrupt our party ?
VITTI: You know , you 're very rigid about certain things .
BEN: Just tell me the dream .
VITTI: Okay . I 'm asleep . I hear a baby crying . I go to the refrigerator , I get a bottle of milk , I take it to the baby , but when I go to give it to him , I see that the milk is lack .
JELLY: That 's fuckin ' weird .
VITTI: Okay , get out of here !
JELLY: Sorry . Jelly exits .
VITTI: What 's it mean ? And I do n't want to hear any more filth about my mother .
BEN: I do n't know what it means . What does it mean to you ?
VITTI: This is what I 'm paying you for ? I say something , you say it right ack to me ? I could get Jelly to do this for nothing .
BEN: Then get Jelly .
VITTI: Why do n't you look over that way efore I have to bust your fuckin ' head open ?
JELLY: I 'm gon na get something to eat . You want like a sandwich o somethin ' ?
BODYGUARD: Yeah . What kinda sandwich is n't too fattening ?
JELLY: A half a sandwich .
BODYGUARD: Sounds good .
JELLY: I 'll be back in about twenty minutes .
SCOTT: Nod your head and smile . Now , you listen to me , goombah . I know what your game is , and you 'd bette call it quits , because if you and your paisans do anything to hurt my little girl , I 'll kill you . Understand ? Nod and smile . Scott crosses away .
LAURA: What was that about ?
BEN: Nothing . Your father thinks I 'm in the Mafia .
LAURA: Oh .
BEN: Let 's get married .
JUSTICE: If any man here knows why these two people should not be joined in holy matrimony , let him speak now or forever hold his peace .
VITTI: Tell Mikey to take Marie and the kids right to the airport . You get the car , bring it around to the back and wait for me . Ben bursts into the room .
BEN: That 's it . I 've had it with you !
VITTI: What happened ?
BEN: What happened ? I just saw a man fall seven stories into a platte of poached salmon ! That 's what happened .
VITTI: Did he break anything ?
BEN: Yes . Everything ! They 're still picking the capers out of his forehead .
VITTI: Hey , people get depressed , they jump . It 's a human tragedy , ut it 's not my fault .
BEN: You 're telling me it was suicide ?
VITTI: I think he left a note . Jelly , did they find that note ?
JELLY: No , but they will in a minute .
BEN: Oh , yeah , here it is .
VITTI: Enough talking . We got to get out of here . The place is crawling with feds . I 'm going ack to New York and I suggest you do the same . They 're probably onto you too now .
BEN: Onto me ? What are you talking about ? Being an accessory to murder was not part of ou understanding .
VITTI: Hey , why you busting my balls ? I did n't kill him . I ca n't speak for everyone in the room , but The son-of-a-bitch came after me ! It was self-defense . Trust me , Doc . In this one , we 're the good guys .
BEN: Laura !
LAURA: How could you do that ?
VITTI: Great . Another country heard from . Get her outta here .
BEN: Honey , why do n't you wait downstairs ?
LAURA: Why , they 're going to throw me off the balcony , too ? I am thirty over thirty years old and all my life I have dreamed of walking down the aisle in a eautiful white dress and marrying the man I love .
VITTI: That 's a beautiful dress .
LAURA: Thank you , but it 's not about the dress ! We were supposed to get married !
VITTI: You 're upset .
LAURA: Of course I 'm upset ! I 'm going downstairs to pack , then I 'm going to New York and I 'm getting married with you o without you . Okay ?
BEN: I 'll be right there . Everything 's going to be all ight . I promise . He kisses her and closes the door behind her .
VITTI: What , you think I wanted this ? I 'm the victim here ! I swear , I 'm going to kill that son-of-a-bitch !
BEN: Is that all you know ? Do you hear yourself ? I knew this would happen .
VITTI: Just 'cause of this ?
BEN: Of course because of this ! You do n't have even the tiniest shred of human decency . All you know is threats and violence and that 's all you 'll ever know and I ca n't be around that ! Vitti stares at Ben for a long beat .
VITTI: What do you want me to do ?
SINDONE: How come I ca n't get on this show ? This is a good show .
MOONY: Primo . You got a phone call . It 's Paul Vitti .
SINDONE: Vitti . Hello ? INTERCUT Vitti and Sindone .
VITTI: Primo , it 's Paul Vitti .
SINDONE: Yeah , how 's it goin ' ?
VITTI: Not good . Whoever killed Dominic is shooting at me now and I 'm having a lot of feelings about it and I 'd like to get some kinda
BEN: Closure .
VITTI: closure on this . Ben nods in encouragement .
SINDONE: What kind of feelings ?
VITTI: I feel very angry , you know . Very , uh , enraged . Mad . Real mad . Thumbs up from Ben .
SINDONE: So why you telling me ?
VITTI: Why am I telling you ? Like you had nothing to do with it ?
SINDONE: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
VITTI: Okay , whatever , I just wanted to tell you how I feel because I know that anger is He looks at Ben .
BEN: A blocked wish
VITTI: a blocked wish , and I 'm getting my wish unblocked and I 'm looking forward to getting some closure
SINDONE: Vaffancul ' !
VITTI: Good ?
BEN: Yeah , right up until the shoving the balls . You ca n't keep doing this ! You want to get physical ? Take a walk . Get a punching bag . Hit a pillow .
VITTI: There 's your fucking pillow .
BEN: Feel better now ?
VITTI: Yeah , I do .
BEN: Call the Vatican . Ask them if anything 's missing .
MICHAEL: So cool !
JANET: Michael , get your bags out of the car , please .
MICHAEL: It 's almost as tall as the house ! Michael crosses away . Laura glares at Ben .
BEN: He felt bad . It 's a wedding gift .
LAURA: Well , we 're not married , so I guess we 'll have to send it back .
BEN: Hey , do n't blame me . You did n't want to finish the ceremony .
LAURA: What did you expect ? You think that 's what I want to remember on our anniversary ? 'Gee , honey , let 's go look at the wedding video . There 's my parents , there 's your parents , and there 's the guy who plunged to his death . '
BEN: I just want to marry you .
LAURA: I 'm starting to think that 's not going to happen .
BEN: Come on . Next Saturday . It 's all set . I even asked for a room with a low ceiling , just to discourage the jumpers .
LAURA: And who 's going to be there ?
BEN: Us three , a clergyman , and any family members who 've completed their crisis counseling .
LAURA: And no guests without necks . Everybody has to have a neck .
BEN: We 'll do a neck check at the door . They kiss .
AGENT STEADMAN: Doctor Sobol , Mrs. Sobol I 'm Agent Steadman , Agent Ricci , Agent Provano , Federal Bureau of Investigation , O.C.D .
BEN: Obsessive-compulsive disorder ?
AGENT PROVANO: Organized Crime Division . We need to talk .
MICHAEL: The FBI ! This is better than the fountain !
BEN: Michael , go to your room .
MICHAEL: But
BEN: Go !
MICHAEL: Fine . I can hear better in there anyway .
BEN: So . FBI .
AGENT STEADMAN: Can you explain these photographs , Doctor Sobol ?
BEN: I 'm a psychotherapist . Paul Vitti is my patient .
LAURA: Was your patient .
BEN: Right . Was . That 's what I meant .
LAURA: But not like a real patient .
BEN: Right .
PROVANO: So why did he send you that fountain ?
BEN: That was a gift to celebrate the completion of his therapy . We got our television from an agoraphobic , so it 's not that unusual you know , maybe you should discuss this with my attorney .
LAURA: Yeah , maybe you should .
AGENT STEADMAN: Doctor Sobol , Paul Vitti is an extremely dangerous man . We 're talking conspiracy , fraud , extortion , racketeering , grand theft , murder
BEN: Well , yeah , but do n't forget , the man is a sociopath . You 've got to expect that kind of behavior
AGENT RICCI: It 's your house .
LAURA: Too bad you did n't remember that when you were breaking in .
BEN: Honey , maybe the federal agents would like something to drink ? Could you see what we have ?
LAURA: No .
BEN: I tried , guys . Ben exits .
DOROTHY: That certainly makes a statement . It 's a little big for the yard , do n't you think ?
BEN: What can I tell you , Mom ? It looked much smaller in the store .
ISAAC: Think it 'll affect your wate pressure ?
BEN: I think it 'll affect the tides . What are you doing here ?
DOROTHY: Your father and I are just very concerned about what happened in Florida .
ISAAC: How was your flight home ? Anyone hang themselves in first class .
DOROTHY: We got in last night , we could n't sleep a wink . Is Laura inside ?
BEN: Yeah , but she and Michael are spending some time alone , you know , getting to know each other . That 's important . I do n't want to disturb that dynamic .
DOROTHY: So you 're not going to invite us in ?
BEN: No .
DOROTHY: Well , I 'm going to wait in the car . There 's too much spray . Dorothy crosses away .
ISAAC: All right . What 's with you and Paul Vitti ?
BEN: Well , Dad , I 'm not at liberty to discuss that .
ISAAC: He 's your patient ? Are you joking ? Have you thought about what this could do to you eputation ?
BEN: You , know , I always wanted to be great , but then I realized that I might have to settle for just being good enough . Now I 've got this guy who 's hurting and I 'm thinking that if I can help this guy , maybe I can e a little bit great .
ISAAC: Jesus , Ben , you 're the one who 's going to be hurting . I want you to stop seeing him .
BEN: Did n't you read your own book ? Instead of trying to run my life , why do n't you just close your eyes , take a deep breath , tell me what you feel , tell me what you want .
ISAAC: This is bullshit .
BEN: You wrote it .
ISAAC: Okay . I love you and I 'm afraid fo you I want you to be safe and I want you to have a good life .
BEN: Is that really it ?
ISAAC: That 's it . They embrace awkwardly .
BEN: You know why I became a shrink ? Because I grew up with a great one walking around the house .
ISAAC: I thought you became a shrink ecause you were sleeping with your psychology professor at Columbia .
BEN: Yes , and because of you .
AGENT STEADMAN: Let me cut to the chase . Sometime in the next week or so , the heads of every major crime family in the United States are going to meet together somewhere in the New York area .
AGENT PROVANO: We think the stage is set for a major bloodbath . Has he mentioned anything about it to you ?
LAURA: A bloodbath ?
BEN: No . If he said anything about a loodbath , I probably would 've emembered it . Bloodbath is one of those words that , you know , stands out in a conversation .
AGENT STEADMAN: You could really help us out by supplying information about that meeting .
BEN: And if I do n't ?
AGENT STEADMAN: If you do n't , I will personally make your life a living hell . I want you to think about that and call me at this number when you change your mind .
BEN: You mean if I change my mind .
AGENT STEADMAN: I mean when .
LAURA: Okay . Guess what , fellas ? You do n't scare me .
BEN: Laura
LAURA: Sit down ! There 's going to be a bloodbath . Oh , yeah . Only it 's going to be etween you and me . You think you can break into our home and intimidate us ? That ai n't the way it works here , boys . Whateve he and Paul Vitti talked about is privileged . He does n't have to tell you a thing .
AGENT STEADMAN: We 'll be in touch . The Agents exit .
BEN: Laura , that was really
LAURA: Oh , shut up !
MASIELLO: Paul , I do n't mean this in a disrespectful way . You know I was a good friend to your father and I will always be a good friend to you . But the word is out that you 've been talking to a shrink . Is that right ?
VITTI: What 's the point here ?
MASIELLO: This concerns the whole family . Right now , we 're the only ones who know about it , but if it gets out on the street what then ? Who knows what you 've been saying in there ?
VITTI: It 's none of anybody 's business what I say in there .
MASIELLO: Paul , I beg to differ . If you 're doing this to establish some kind of insanity defense later , that 's one thing . But everybody 's gon na think you 're falling apart , and that ai n't good . They 'll take it as a sign of weakness , and that makes us all vulnerable . Sindone would take over everything .
VITTI: So what do you want me to do ?
MASIELLO: It 's time to end it .
VITTI: What do you mean , end it ?
MASIELLO: Get rid of this shrink . He knows too much already .
VITTI: You want me to whack my doctor ?
MASIELLO: If you do n't do it , somebody else will . It 's the only way .
VITTI: No . Nobody touches him . You hea me ? Anybody lays a finger on him , I 'll kill 'em . Is that clear ?
BEN: I 'm going to buy some fruit . You want anything ?
VITTI: No , go ahead .
BEN: Listen , Paul , please do n't send me any more gifts .
VITTI: You did n't like the fountain ?
BEN: That 's not the point . It 's a oundary issue .
VITTI: Boundary issue ? I say if more people gave from the heart , we 'd all be better off . Let 's see you watch . Piece of junk . You 're getting a Rolex .
BEN: Do n't buy me a Rolex .
VITTI: Who said anything about buying it ? They cross to the main aisle of the church .
BEN: Listen , I really need to talk to you .
VITTI: Tommy Angels . We grew up together . Worked for a crew out of Jersey City .
BEN: How did he die ?
VITTI: He was on his way to talk to a federal prosecutor . Got hit by a truck twice .
BEN: Do I need to know that ? I 'm having nightmares as it is . The funeral procession comes down the aisle .
VITTI: Good scene . Was I there ?
BEN: You dropped your gun , then you ran over to me and started yelling , 'Papa , Papa ! '
VITTI: I was Fredo . I do n't think so .
BEN: Do n't you see ? You called me 'Papa . ' It 's all about you father .
VITTI: What 're you , nuts ? It was you dream .
BEN: Yes , but that 's what your black milk dream was about , too .
VITTI: Uh-uh . I do n't buy it . In my dream , I 'm bringing the baby the black milk .
BEN: Freud believed you 're everyone in your dreams .
VITTI: Yeah , well , that guy I do n't need to hear about . I ca n't even call my mother on the phone after that thing you told me .
BEN: Let 's say you are the baby . What kind of milk did you get from your father ?
VITTI: Could we stop talking about my father ?
BEN: That 's the whole point ! We have to start talking about you father . You know what it 's like dealing with you ? This is you . You got ta help me , Doc . I 'm a mess . I 'm in pain . Okay , Paul , I can help you . Fuck you . Nobody helps Paul Vitti .
VITTI: Very good . Now I 'll do you . 'Boo-fuckin'-hoo . ' I never said this would be easy . Let 's see how you like it . Let 's talk about your father .
BEN: Let 's not .
VITTI: Is he still alive ?
BEN: Yes , he 's still alive .
VITTI: What kind of work does he do ?
BEN: That 's not important .
VITTI: You paused .
BEN: What ?
VITTI: You paused . That means you had a feeling . What does he do ?
BEN: He 's a psychiatrist .
VITTI: Ooh , you 're fucked up . Next patient , please .
BEN: We 're running out of time , Paul . Let 's not waste it talking about my problems .
VITTI: Your father 's a problem ?
BEN: No !
VITTI: That 's what you just said ! You seem upset .
BEN: I 'm not upset !
VITTI: Hey , I 'm good at this .
BEN: We have three days left . If you want to spend it screwing around , I ca n't help you . Call me when you 're ready to get serious .
VITTI: Say hello to your father for me ! A cab stops at the curb .
POTATOES: We could just pop him right now .
HANDSOME JACK: In front of a church ? What are you , a fuckin ' animal ? It 's a holy place .
POTATOES: Is the sidewalk holy , too ? I mean , where does the holiness end ?
HANDSOME JACK: I do n't know . Second Avenue ?
BEN: What do you want me to do ?
MASIELLO: Paul , he talked to the Feds .
VITTI: I know this guy . He would neve talk to the Feds .
MASIELLO: The FBI was at his house today .
JIMMY: It 's the truth . I saw 'em .
MASIELLO: You 'll see . Next thing is he 's gon na call you and ask for a meeting .
VITTI: Come on . You do n't know this guy . Jelly covers the phone and turns to Vitti .
JELLY: It 's Dr. Sobol . He says he needs to see you right away . Vitti nods .
BEN: You want me to sit in front ? Paul usually sits in front .
JIMMY: So this time you 'll sit up front . Why you making a federal case ?
BEN: Federal case ? I 'm not making a federal case ? Let 's go .
VITTI: This is Ben . He 's a friend of mine . Say hello to Carlo Mangano .
MANGANO: How you doin ' ?
VITTI: Carlo was on my father 's crew . He 's always been like a I do n't know like a cousin to me .
MANGANO: I am your cousin .
VITTI: I know , that 's what I 'm saying . It 's like a family thing . The closeness .
MANGANO: Anything you need , anything I can do for you , Paul , you know . I 'm here for you .
VITTI: I know . So did you take care of that thing I asked you about ?
MANGANO: Is it all right to talk business in front of your friend ?
VITTI: It 's okay .
MANGANO: Yeah , I took care of it .
VITTI: How about that other thing ?
MANGANO: I 'm waiting for that first thing to come through . I ca n't move until it does .
VITTI: Did the guy give you a problem ?
MANGANO: A little . He 's a lunatic .
VITTI: You always got ta nip that shit in the bud .
MANGANO: Yeah . But if the first thing is okay , that should fix everything .
VITTI: Including the second thing .
MANGANO: Yeah , but
VITTI: Exactly . Do n't repeat any of that to anyone .
BEN: What ? The first thing or the second thing ?
VITTI: That 's Stevie Beef over there . I got ta go say hello to him for a second . Come on .
BEN: Stevie Beef . Interesting name . When he was younger they probably called him Stevie Veal . You guys come here often ?
JELLY: Paretti 's has a very special meaning to Paul .
JIMMY: Yeah , this is where his father got whacked .
JELLY: Hey !
JIMMY: What 's the big secret ?
BEN: Wait a second . Paul 's father was murdered ?
JIMMY: Right at that table . With his whole family there .
JELLY: Hey , just shut up .
BEN: Paul , too ? He was there ?
JELLY: He do n't like to talk about it .
JIMMY: Where you goin ' ?
BEN: Bathroom .
JELLY: I 'll go with you .
BEN: I got ta you know poop .
BEN: Ahhhh !
BEN: I have to talk to you in private .
VITTI: Leave us alone . They exit without hesitation .
BEN: Why did n't you tell me about you father ?
VITTI: What about him ?
BEN: You said he died of a heart attack .
VITTI: So what 's the problem ?
BEN: What 's the problem ? Your fathe was murdered !
VITTI: Heart attack , murdered , what 's the difference ? He 's dead .
BEN: There 's a big difference . Why did n't you tell me ?
VITTI: Because it 's private . You think I tell you every little thing ?
BEN: That is not a little thing !
VITTI: Okay , you want to know ? Analyze this . I was twelve years old , the whole family was having dinne together right over there , two guys walked in and shot him dead ight in front of us . Okay ?
BEN: And you did n't think this was important enough to tell me ?
VITTI: What am I supposed to do ? Spend the rest of my life crying about the past ? Forget about it .
BEN: You know what ? I think you want to talk about it .
VITTI: No , I do n't want to talk about it .
BEN: I think you do .
VITTI: No , I do n't .
BEN: Then why did you choose this estaurant ?
VITTI: 'Cause I like it , okay ?
BEN: Of all the places we could 've gone , why this one ?
VITTI: White clam sauce . The best .
BEN: No , we 're here because you wanted me to know about your father . You 're reaching out to me .
VITTI: I 'll reach out to you
BEN: I think we have some major trust issues here .
SINDONE: I 'd like to see a movie but there 's nothing out there . It 's all this shoot-'em-up action ullshit . I get enough of that at work .
MOONY: That was our friend . He marked your guy at Paretti 's .
SINDONE: Yeah ? Then let 's make it the last supper . Jack ?
HANDSOME JACK: You got it , Primo . Let 's go .
SINDONE: Hey , Jack . Just for fun , tea out his heart and bring it to me .
BEN: Jimmy , you can have shotgun this time . I do n't mind .
JIMMY: Nah , sit up front . There 's more oom for your legs .
BEN: My legs are short , it 's fine in the back .
JIMMY: Get in the front .
BEN: You know what ? It 's late . I think I 'm just going to call it a night . Why do n't I just grab a cab and head on home .
JIMMY: Get in the car .
BEN: No really , it 's all right .
JIMMY: Get in the fucking car . Ben looks to Vitti for help .
VITTI: Do what he says .
BEN: You know , we call this a transference neurosis . It 's when the patient starts acting out his problems with his therapist instead of out in the world . It 's usually considered a good sign . Not for me , in this case , but Jimmy forces him into the back of the car .
AGENT RICCI: What 's he doing in there ? He 's een in the bathroom for half an hour . Ricci and Steadman look at each other .
VITTI: Leave us alone . Jelly looks apologetically at Ben .
JELLY: Sorry , Doc . It 's not personal , you know .
BEN: Do n't kid yourself , Jelly . It does n't get more personal than this .
VITTI: You know why I have to do this , do n't you ?
BEN: Because you 're a paranoid ? No , actually you 're a reverse paranoid . You think you 're out to get everybody .
VITTI: Do n't bullshit me ! You betrayed me ! You stabbed me in the back . They start shouting at each other .
BEN: I betrayed you ? What are you talking about ? Who 's got the gun ?
VITTI: You think I 'm an idiot ? Do n't insult my intelligence . You cooperated ! You talked to the Feds !
BEN: They played me a tape ! You said you were going to kill me .
VITTI: Never . I never said that . They glare at each other for a moment .
BEN: It does n't matter . I did n't etray you , Paul . Yes , they made me wear a wire , but I took it off , because I think I know how to help you now .
VITTI: I do n't want to know what you think .
BEN: Yes , you do .
VITTI: No , I do n't !
BEN: I think you do .
VITTI: It 's over ! Do n't you get it ? I took one chance and that 's it .
BEN: Okay . Can I ask you one last question ?
VITTI: What ?
BEN: What did you order ?
VITTI: What ?
BEN: What did you order ?
VITTI: When ?
BEN: That night . What were you eating the night your father got killed ?
VITTI: How the hell do I know ?
BEN: You do n't remember ?
VITTI: It was 35 years ago .
BEN: What did your father have ?
VITTI: I told you ! I do n't remember .
BEN: Try .
VITTI: What 's the matter with you ?
BEN: It 's a simple question . What was your father eating !
VITTI: Penne .
BEN: Good . And you .
VITTI: Ravioli .
BEN: The food was on the table ?
VITTI: They were just serving it .
BEN: Did you see the guys coming ?
VITTI: One of them . Dressed like a usboy .
BEN: Did your father see him ?
VITTI: No , but I knew he looked wrong .
BEN: Why ?
VITTI: His pants . They looked too good for a busboy .
BEN: He walked over to the table ?
VITTI: I watched him the whole way .
BEN: Did you say anything ?
VITTI: My father was so mad at me .
BEN: And you were mad at him .
VITTI: I could n't say anything .
BEN: And then .
VITTI: I never saw the second guy . My mother started screaming .
BEN: And you blame yourself ?
VITTI: I coulda saved him .
BEN: But you were mad at him .
VITTI: I killed my father .
BEN: You did n't kill him , Paul . You were angry but you did n't kill him . That 's the life he chose .
VITTI: I never got to say good-bye .
BEN: Say it now , Paul . Talk to him . What do you want to tell him ?
VITTI: I ca n't .
BEN: You have to . Tell him , Paul .
VITTI: I 'm sorry . I 'm so sorry .
BEN: It 's okay , Paul . You can let go of it now .
JIMMY: What 's taking so long ? I 'm ruining my goddamn shoes here . Fuckin ' $ 350 Bruno Maglis .
JELLY: What 's wrong with you ? Do n't you have any respect ? This is a very difficult thing for Paul .
JIMMY: Shoulda let me do it . I 'd be home watchin ' E.S.P.N.2 by now . World 's strongest man . You should see these guys .
BEN: You could n't save him , Paul . He was trying to save you . That 's what you fought about . He did n't want this for you , and you do n't want it for Anthony . You do n't want him to grow up the way you did without a father . Vitti just cries louder .
JELLY: Jesus , the guy 's fallin ' apart .
JIMMY: Why does n't he just pop him ? It 's embarrassing .
BEN: Your father 's not dead , Paul . He 's alive in you . And he 's trying to tell you something .
BEN: Oh , my God !
BEN: Paul ! For God 's sake , shoot somebody !
BEN: Goddamn it !
BEN: Oh my God ! Did I do that ?
JELLY: No , Doc . That one 's mine . You got the Chevy Camaro and the side-by-side refrigerator-freezer .
VITTI: Pretty fuckin ' ironic , is n't it ? You can give me back the gun now , Doctor .
BEN: I do n't think I can see you anymore .
VITTI: Yeah , I figured .
BEN: This was big tonight . You might feel a little raw for a while .
VITTI: Yeah .
BEN: So good luck . It 's been
ELAINE: I want to please him in bed , but whatever I do it seems like it 's never enough . Now he wants me to say things when we 're making love .
BEN: What kinds of things does he want you to say , Elaine ?
ELAINE: Well , he wants me to call him 'big oy . ' And he 's my bucking bronco , and I 'm supposed to ride him hard and put him back in the barn wet .
BEN: Let me suggest something , Elaine . If the man wants you to say things damn it , you should get down on all fours and bark like a dog if that 's going to get the jo done . Break out the wine , baby . Smoke a joint . Do what you have to do , because life is too short . It 's just too fucking short . Elaine stares , taken aback , then she smiles .
ELAINE: Okay .
JELLY: How you feelin ' , boss ? You need anything ?
VITTI: No , I 'm great . Never felt bette in my life . When this meeting is over they wo n't know what hit 'em .
DOROTHY: Is Ben going to step on the glass ?
ISAAC: No . He does n't want to hurt his foot , so they 're going to drop a person on it .
RABBI: We are put on this earth to find a love , a soulmate , someone with whom we can create joy . How glad we are today that Ben and Laura have found each other , and we anticipate and celebrate the years of joy they will share together from this day on .
RABBI: Ben , do you take this woman , Laura , to be your lawfully wedded wife , fo icher , for poorer , in sickness and in health , 'til death do you part , so help you God ?
BEN: No !
RABBI: Excuse me ?
BEN: No , not you . I was talking to him .
RABBI: Who him ?
BEN: It 's not important . Yes .
RABBI: Yes what ?
BEN: Yes to the thing before . To her . That 's a yes . Pick it up from there .
JELLY: Doc , we 're going to need to hurry it up here . Hi , kid .
LAURA: I do not believe this !
JELLY: Haul ass , buddy . We got a problem .
LAURA: Who the hell do you think you are ?
JELLY: Ooh , she 's feisty . Watch out , Doc . Tick tock , let 's go . Hurry up and pronounce them , huh ?
RABBI: By the power vested me by the state of New York , I now pronounce you man and wife .
JELLY: Okay . Kiss , kiss Ben and Laura kiss .
LAURA: Oh . You 're the first person to call me Mrs. Sobol .
JELLY: Nice , huh ?
LAURA: No .
BEN: Laura , I 'm sorry . It 's the job .
LAURA: Go . Just go . Have him back here by the salad course or you 're in serious trouble . Capiche ?
JELLY: You 're a pistol . I like her .
BEN: Have you ever seen an episode like this ?
JELLY: Yes . Once on 'Bonanza , ' Hoss Cartwright got bit by a raccoon . He got this fever and he was shaking
BEN: Never mind .
JELLY: This is serious , Doc . If he does n't make this meeting , they 'll kill him for sure .
BEN: Ca n't someone else in the family go for him ? Tommy the Tongue ? Louie the Lip ? What about you ? You go ?
JELLY: That would work except for one little detail . I 'm a fucking moron . I 'm known for it . You have to go .
BEN: Me ? You must be a moron .
JELLY: Hey ! Watch that .
BEN: You just said it yourself .
JELLY: It 's different when I say it . When you say it , it sounds very negative .
BEN: I 'm sorry , Jelly , but I 'm not going . I 'm not on the payroll anymore , so forget about it . My wife is waiting He turns to go back into the hotel .
JELLY: Doc . Ben feels a gun pressed against his back .
JELLY: Correction . Mr. Vitti could n't shoot you . But here 's something about me you should know . I neve got married , Doctor Sobol . I do n't have a hobby . I never got a dog or a cat . I do n't even have a goldfish . I live for one reason only , and that 's to serve Mr. Paul Vitti . He 's what I 'm thinking about when I wake up , and he 's what I 'm thinking about when I close my eyes to sleep . If he told me to jump off a tall building , not only would I do it , I would hope to survive so I could do it again and again until he told me to stop . This is all I know . This is all I got . So please do n't think I wo n't kill you , because I 'd hate fo your last thought to be a wrong one . You 're going to that meeting .
STEADMAN: Which one is it ?
AGENT PROVANO: The black one .
JIMMY: Just remember . That 's a fuckin ' $ 1200 Valentino suit . You spill anything on it , I 'll mess you up good .
JELLY: Shut up . You 're making him nervous . If he gets nervous and fucks up , they 'll kill him fo sure . Let 's go over it again .
BEN: This is insane .
JELLY: Mr. Vitti 's been detained , apologies all around , blah , blah , lah . Then you say you 're the new consigliere , and you 're prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti .
BEN: Then what ?
JELLY: Then you just keep your mouth shut , and hope nobody asks you nothin ' .
JIMMY: Boy , this is some fuckin ' plan .
JELLY: Shut up . If you have to talk , just be vague . Can you do that ?
BEN: I 'm a psychologist . Believe me , I can be vague .
VITTI: Should n't you be outside playing or something ?
ANTHONY: No , it 's all right .
VITTI: How long you gon na sit there ?
ANTHONY: How long you gon na lay there ? Vitti smiles .
VITTI: I 'm done .
BEN: I ca n't do this . I 'm telling you , I can not do this .
JELLY: Do n't fucking whine ! Whining 's a dead giveaway . Come on ! You 're the consigliere , for Chrissake .
BEN: These are the bosses ? That one looks like my Uncle Max .
MANGANO: What 's goin ' on ? Where 's Vitti ?
JELLY: On his way . Do n't worry . Mangano eyes Ben with contempt .
MANGANO: What 's he doin ' here ?
JELLY: He 's it 's okay . Forget about it .
MANGANO: Forget about it ? What the hell is that ?
SINDONE: Who 's the guy with Jelly ?
MOONY: I do n't know . Ben looks away nervously .
BEN: I ca n't do this .
MOONY: All right , gentlemen . I think we etter start . We have a big agenda , so for now let 's stick to the big issues . And it would help if you identify yourselves when you speak , since we do n't all know each other , and we did n't think anybody would be into wearing any fucking name tags . Laughter around the table . Sindone stands up and looks straight at Ben .
SINDONE: I 'm Primo Sindone . They call me Sonny Long . It 's good to see so many of the old faces here , and to welcome the new ones from all ove the country . I see Frank Zello , and Joe Baldassare , but I 'm a little disappointed to see that the head of our other New York family is n't here today . All I see is his man Jelly and some sawed-off little prick nobody knows .
JELLY: Yeah , well , the thing is Mr. Vitti has been detained and he sends his apologies for being detained and he apologizes for his detainment .
SINDONE: Detained ? What kind of bullshit is that ? What 's more important than this ? As the host of this meeting , I take his not being here as a sign of disrespect to me and to all these other men , too , who came a long way to be here .
JELLY: Mr. Vitti meant no disrespect . The thing is , he 's not feeling well . He 's sick and he did n't feel well
BEN: Jelly ! We do n't ever discuss Mr. Vitti 's health outside the family . You know better . Jelly is stunned . The bosses murmur .
SINDONE: All right , who is this guy and what the fuck is he doing here ?
BEN: In answer to your first question , my name is Ben Sobol leone . Sobboleone . They call me 'The doctor . ' As for you second question . I 'm here epresenting Paul Vitti . As his conser conghili
JELLY: Consigliere
BEN: Do n't you ever correct me again ! As his consigliere , I 'm intimately involved in all aspects of the family business and I 'm prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti on all matters .
SINDONE: Okay , Doctor , then let 's get down to business . Everybody knows there 's been this thing between me and Paul Vitti for a long time .
BEN: Which thing are you talking about ? The first thing or the second thing ?
SINDONE: What second thing ? I only know one thing .
BEN: Well , I do n't see how we can discuss the first thing without inging up the second thing . Did n't you talk to the guy ? He tugs meaningfully on his earlobe .
SINDONE: What guy ?
BEN: The guy with the thing .
SINDONE: What thing ? What the fuck are you talking about ?
BEN: How should I know ? You brought it up . This is the whole problem . You ca n't have an intelligent conversation with the man .
SINDONE: How about if I just break you fuckin ' neck ? What do you think of that ?
BEN: It 's not important what I think . What do you think ?
SINDONE: What do I think ? I think it 's a good idea ! Why would I say it if I did n't think it was good ?
BEN: I do n't know . Why would you ?
SINDONE: I would n't ! That 's what I 'm saying !
BEN: Have you always had a problem dealing with your anger ?
SINDONE: What are you talking about ?
BEN: What do you think I 'm talking about ?
SINDONSINDONE: I do n't know what the fuck you 're talking about !
BEN: See , you 're angry again . Do you feel you have to get angry to be heard ?
SINDONE: What 's he talking about ?
ZELLO: I do n't know . But you do have a tendency to get angry a lot .
BALDASSARE: I agree , Primo .
SINDONE: I 'm trying to talk about Vitti ! Why are we talking about me ?
BEN: Interesting . Do you feel you 're not worthy enough to be talked about ?
SINDONE: What does that mean ?
BEN: What do you think it means ?
SINDONE: Fuck you !
ZELLO: Primo , calm down .
SINDONE: Calm down ? How can I calm down when this prick wo n't stop with the questions ?
BEN: Could you pass the fruit , please ?
SINDONE: That 's it ! You 're a dead man !
VITTI: Wait outside with the car running . Jelly nods and exits .
BEN: What are you doing here ?
VITTI: Saving your ass . Sit down . I 'll take it from here . Ben sits , greatly relieved .
VITTI: About two and a half weeks ago , somebody killed my friend , Dominic Manetta . He looks straight at Sindone .
SINDONE: Do n't look at me . Everybody knows you whacked him so you could take over everything .
VITTI: What I really came here to say is that I 've come to a very important decision in my life . I want out .
MANGANO: Thank you , Paul .
VITTI: That 's why he betrayed Dominic and me to our enemies and sent his own man to kill me in Miami . Mangano is stunned .
ZELLO: I do n't know , Paul . I can see where some people might have a problem with this .
VITTI: I realize that , so as an extra token of good faith between us , I 've taken the liberty of writing down everything I know and putting it in a safe deposit box in case anything happens to me or my family .
ZELLO: I do n't know what anybody else thinks , but I say good luck and God bless , Paul .
BALDASSARE: Good luck , Paul . Salut .
BEN: Well done . Vitti smiles at him and drinks .
VITTI: Let 's move .
SINDONE: Vitti !
VITTI: I do n't want to do this , Primo .
SINDONE: You do n't want to do this ? That 's fuckin ' rich . What did you think , you could just quit and walk away ? You think this is a fuckin ' civil service job ? What are you , crazy ?
VITTI: Not anymore . Hey , Carlo , tell me . You gon na stab me in the back like the piece of shit I always knew you were ? Mangano stares at him , cold and hard .
MANGANO: I 'm not gon na stab you in the ack , Paul . I want to see you face when I do it .
VITTI: I do n't think so . Mo-Mo !
BEN: Good thinking . I was going to ing a machine gun but I do n't have one . Of course , we have n't opened the wedding gifts yet . Suddenly , Sindone whirls and FIRES at Vitti .
ZELLO: Oh , shit . The bosses all jump up and run for the exits .
AGENT RICCI: Do n't move ! Do n't you fucking move !
SINDONE: Hey ! Take a pill , Robocop .
VITTI: I ca n't believe it . You took a ullet for me . What doctor eve did that much for a patient ? I 'll never forget that .
BEN: Paul I tripped .
VITTI: Yeah . You tripped over you unconscious .
DONNY: I do n't think my mother really listens when I talk . She neve listened .
VITTI: And how does that make you feel ?
DONNY: It makes me feel angry .
VITTI: I 'll bet you feel hurt , too , do n't you ?
DONNY: Yes , I do .
BEN: Paul , what would you say about what Donny 's feeling ?
VITTI: Donny , when you 're thirsty , you do n't go to the wall you go to the well . You know what I 'm saying ? Your mother may never be able to listen to you , but you have friends here who will . Okay ? Ben is proud of Vitti 's new sensitivity .
BEN: And be patient , Donny . Most people 's problems take months , sometimes years to resolve .
DONNY: I 'm doing twenty-five to life .
BEN: That should be plenty of time .
BEN: You know they found Primo Sindone dead in a field near LaGuardia .
VITTI: I heard . I had nothing to do with it . There were guys lined up from Canarsie to Atlantic City who wanted to whack that bastard .
BEN: Okay , just checking .
VITTI: You know , Doc , I do n't think I ever thanked you properly fo curing me .
BEN: We do n't say 'cured . ' We say you had a 'corrective emotional experience . '
VITTI: You , you , you 're very good .
BEN: No . You . You .
LAURA: I just ca n't get used to it .
BEN: What ?
LAURA: It 's been three weeks since the last time you were kidnapped . I do n't know if I can adjust .
BEN: What do you say , Tony ? One more ?
TONY BENNETT: Whatever you want , Dr. Sobol . My friend told me to stay as long as you wanted me . What do you want to hear , Mrs. Sobol ?
LAURA: Your choice , Tony .
TONY BENNETT: I was hoping you 'd say that . 'World on a String , ' fellas .
SONYA: Princess Anastasia - you 're late and it 's all my fault !
ANASTASIA: Do n't worry , Sonya , no one 'll notice . . .
IVAR: You 're a servent ! Never forget your place !
DMITIRI: Someday my place will be out there !
IVAR: Never ! You 're a peasant , Dmitri ! Back in the kitchen u > RULARS OF RUSSIA
TATIANA: Why were you so late tonight
ANASTASIA: I was showing Sonya something . . .
TATIANA: What were you showing her ?
ANASTASIA: How to read .
TATIANA: I thought you were told not to tutor your servants anymore .
ANASTASIA: I know , but I had to because . . .
TATIANA: It 's where I 've made my home ut I do have something fo you . . .
ANASTASIA: `` Together in Paris '' ! Oh , when can we be `` together in Paris ? !
TATIANA: When you 're older . . .
RASPUTIN: Despite being shot , poisoned and thrown into an icy river . . .
NICHOLAS: I had nothing to do with it !
RASPUTIN: You gave the orders !
NICHOLAS: I did no such thing !
RASPUTIN: After all I 've done for you family - YOU TRIED TO KILL
ANASTASIA: NO !
RASPUTIN: You . . . my little babushka . . . you 'll be so much fun to kill that I 'll save you for last !
ANASTASIA: My music mox !
TATIANA: Anastasia , no !
DMITRI: No - this way !
ANASTASIA: Hurry , Grandmama !
TATIANA: Get on ! Anastasia , get on ! Anastasia refuses to board the train .
TATIANA: Grab my hand !
ANASTASIA: Do n't let go !
TATIANA: ANASTASIA !
GREGOR: Anya ! Anya !
PHLEGMENKOF: You ca n't get away from me now . . .
ANYA: Do n't touch him .
PHLEGMENKOF: You ragged , skinny , little nothing ! I have had just about enough of you . . .
SEREBREAKOV: I need . . . a worker .
ANYA: About as bad as you smell !
PHLEGMENKOF: No , no , Comrade - you do n't want her . . .
SEREBREAKOV: I want her .
PHLEGMENKOF: That 's horrible , skinny thing ? ! She 's crazy - she has no memory of anything before she came here ! She did n't even know he name ! That one is a rotten troublemaker , willful . . .
SEREBREAKOV: I 'll break her will . . . I shall come for you tomorrow at dawn . You will enjoy serving unde me . Smiling in anticipation , he exit .
PHLEGMENKOF: I could n't break you - but he can !
GREGOR: Anya ?
ANYA: No . I 'm running to .
LITTLE GIRL: Running to ? Running to what ?
ANYA: To find my home . A CHUBBY TWELVE YEAR OLD GIRL looks at Anya .
CHUBBY GIRL: But you are home .
ANYA: No . This is n't a home - it 's just a building . Home is where you belong and none of us elong here .
GREGOR: Where is your home , Anya ?
ANYA: I 'm not sure but look . . . Anya shows Gregor the key around her neck .
CHUBBY GIRL: Is your home in Paris ?
ANYA: It might be . I have to go and find out . Anya smiles lovingly at the children . u > '' A SOMEPLACE AND A SOMEONE ''
GREGOR: But what if we ca n't ever find where we came from ? !
ANYA: Then you 'll have to make you own home . Lots of people do .
GREGOR: Anya ! What if we ca n't find anyone who loves us ? !
ANYA: Then come find me .
PEASANT 1: End of the line !
ANYA: Which line ?
PEASANT 2: Any line .
PEASANT 3: All lines are good lines .
GUARD: Very good . . . He jots something down in his notebook .
ANYA: Is this the right line to get papers to travel ?
PEASANT 4: Travel ? Travel to where ?
ANYA: To Paris . I have to get to Paris PEASANT 5 , in front of her , turns around .
PEASANT 5: Paris ? ! What do they have in Paris that they do n't have here ?
PEASANT 6: Shorter lines ? !
PEASANT 7: Nobody leaves Soviet Russia .
ANYA: Is this where I get traveling papers ?
CLERK: It would be if we let you travel which we do n't so it is n't . Russia is the people 's paradise !
ANYA: I did n't He opens it again .
CLERK: No .
ANYA: Dmitri ? There must be a million Dmitris . . .
PEASANT 9: Which line is this ?
PEASANT 10: The line to get into the line .
ANYA: Excuse me , do you know Dmitri . . .
PEASANT 9: I know nothing !
PEASANT 10: Nothing !
PEASANTS9& 10: But we did n't tell you !
ANYA: I wish they 'd all stop telling me they did n't tell me !
TINY HUSBAND: Could you get rid of he moustache ?
ANYA: Excuse me - I 'm looking for a man named Dmitri . . .
ARTIST: But I did n't write it . Anya looks down at the note
DISSOLVE TO: A SIGN
ACTRESS 1: Oh , Grandmama ! It 's me , Anastasia ! I 've waited so long to see you !
VLADIMIR: Dmitri ! I can not work with her !
DMITRI: Vladimir , calm down !
VLADIMIR: This , my friend , as an exercise in futility ! We shall neve find a girl to play the Princess Anastasia out of this motley crew of commoners !
DMITRI: For a ten million rubles reward we can look a little longer . This is the big one . . . and all I need is the right girl . u > '' A SOMEONE AND A SOMEPLACE '' ( REPRISE
ACTRESS 2: Oh , Grandmama ! It 's me , Anastasia . I 've waited so long to see you .
ACTRESS 3: Oh . . . Grandmama it 's me . Anastasia , I have waited so long , too . See you !
ACTRESS 4: Oh . . . Grandmama . . . It 's me . . .
DMITRI: I would n't be on the outside anymore . The ten million ubles would make me welcome anywhere . I 'd really belong somewhere - if I could just find the right girl .
ACTRESS 5: Oh , Grandmama . . .
ACTRESS 6: What 's my modivation ?
VLADIMIR: Stanislavski !
ACTRESS 7: Oh . . .
DMITRI: I 've got ta find the right girl ! u > END MUSICAL NUMBER < /u
VLADIMIR: It 's no use , Dmitri - we 'll never find the right girl !
DMITRI: We will . We have to . Come on , Vlad - she 's out there . They walk out the door .
ANYA: I 'm sorry . . . I 'm . . .
DMITRI: That 's quite a hard head you 've got there , boy .
ANYA: I 'm looking for Dmitri . I need traveling papers - to Paris . I heard Dmitri could help me .
VLADIMIR: Who did you hear it from ?
ANYA: I heard it from everyone who said I did n't hear it from them ! Do you know Dmitri ?
VLADIMIR: Providing travel papers is illeagal ! I know Dmitri well - perhaps I can help you . Providded you have enough money to pay fo this service . . .
ANYA: Well , I do n't have any money . . .
VLADIMIR: Good day ! Vladimir pats her on the head and walks away .
ANYA: I have a bike ! Perhaps I could sell it and . . .
POLICEMAN: Nonsense . There is no crime in the Soviet Socialist Republic .
ANYA: Sorry , boy , I have to go . Meetoo barks `` retu '' and starts after her .
VLADIMIR: . . . even if we find her , what makes you think the Empress will even see us ? Dmitri holds up the music box .
DMITRI: She 'll see us .
BARTOK: You , uhh . . . hang here often ? `` Hang '' get it ? I said `` hang '' and we 're both , you know , cause we 're bats . . . and , uhhh . . . what 's your sign ? No reaction from FEMALE BAT .
DMITRI: What was that ?
VLADIMIR: That was your dinner ! I do hope there is no cabbage in Paris !
BARTOK: Whatta ' ya say we go somewhere - maybe get a bug to eat . Get it ? A `` bug '' to eat , 'cause we 're . . .
ANYA: What are you do . . .
HORSES PRANCE: THROUGH A SILVER STORM FIGURES DANCING GRACEFULLY ACROSS MY MEMORY .
VLADIMIR: You 're trespassing , boy !
ANYA: I. . . I. . . spoke to you earlie about traveling paper . .
DMITRI: It 's her .
VLADIMIR: He 's her ?
DMITRI: Look ! Vladimir looks at Anya again and get it .
ANYA: Are you Dmitri ? I did n't mean to trespass - I do n't want to do anything dishonest , but if you could just help help me . . .
VLADIMIR: Perhaps you heard of ou illiant plan to find a girl and . . .
DMITRI: She does n't want to do anything `` dishonest '' . . .
VLADIMIR: Ew . . . the honest type .
DMITRI: You look like her . Like the Princess Anastasia . Has anyone ever told you that before ?
ANYA: Oh , yeah - in the orphanage they constantly told me I looked like a princess ! Stop that !
DMITRI: People say Anastasia was the only member of the Royal Family to escape alive . That makes her an orphan too
ANYA: I do n't know - I do n't remembe anything that happened before the revolution . . .
DMITRI: You know , it 's strange - Anastasia 's grandmother , the Dowager Empress Tatiana has een looking for Anastasia since the revolution . Why do you think she would n't go to her own grandmother ?
ANYA: I do n't know . I do n't see what this has to do with me .
DMITRI: Perhaps it 's because she has amnesia too - ca n't remember . . .
VLADIMIR: How much do you weigh ? Dmitri pokes him again .
ANYA: Look , I came here to get papers to travel to Paris and . . .
DMITRI: Why do you want to go to Paris ?
ANYA: I have my reasons .
DMITRI: Anastasia 's grandmother is in Paris . We 're going to bring Anastasia to her - in Paris .
ANYA: Look - there is n't an orphan in the world who does n't dream she 's a princess but , come on . . . Look at me !
DMITRI: NO ! YOU LOOK AT HER ! LOOK AT HER ! It could be you . u > UNDERSCORE `` THE MUSIC BOX THEME '' < /u
DMITRI: Find out the truth - come to Paris with us .
ANYA: All right . I will go with you .
DMITRI: The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia !
BARTOK: Oy . . . he 's gon na be so mad . . .
DMITRI: Find out the truth - come to Paris with us .
ANYA: All right . I will go with you .
DMITRI: The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia !
BARTOK: Oy . . . he 's gon na be so mad
BARTOK: Ummm Father Gregori ? It 's , uhh me . Bartok . Phew ! Not home
RASPUTIN: What ?
BARTOK: Oh my God ! Do n't do that feel my heart . Go ahead . I 'm dying here
RASPUTIN: And what do you want , my little at-with-wings ?
BARTOK: Name calling ! That 's mature . Rasputin grabs him by the throat .
RASPUTIN: I gave you that tongue and I can rip it out !
BARTOK: No , I really like my tongue we 're very attached . Oyyyy Okay , now promise you wo n't get angry .
RASPUTIN: Why would I ever be angry with you , little friend ?
BARTOK: Yeah , right . Keep that thought okay ? So , I 'm in town , stop by the old palace . You get a bette class of bats there - no tattoos or anything .
RASPUTIN: Get to the point sometime tonight.. I 'm late for a wenching .
BARTOK: Okay you 're not gon na like this ut , well , it looks like Anastasia is still alive .
RASPUTIN: Impossible . That rumor 's been around for years . Bartok hovers face-to-face .
BARTOK: Trust me , it 's her !
RASPUTIN: How do you know ?
BARTOK: Rodent 's intuition , how do I know ? She looks exactly like her . Except she 's taller , which is natural Of course my second cousin Treplev - he never grew . Looks like a little pepper shaker . He was so cute Rasputin begins a slow growl that builds .
RASPUTIN: Source of my power . Owner of my soul . I need your help .
BARTOK: Hey , she 's just a kid . And she 's going to Paris outta sight , outta mind , outta Russia .
RASPUTIN: I cursed then all !
BARTOK: My Aunt Bella , sweet woman not the brightest bat in the world - she used to hang right side up , anyway she always said `` Curses were made to be broken '' . Course , she said it in those irritating little bat squeaks , so it was n't quite so profound
RASPUTIN: The Romanovs tried to kill me and I swore to destroy all of them ! If she lives , if she should have a child someday , the Romanov Family continues ! And I wo n't lot that happen ! THIS IS THE END OF THE LINE !
BARTOK: You know , this is really obsessive ehavior . There is this doctor this doctor in Austria , Sigmund something and he feels . . .
RASPUTIN: YOU IDIOT
RASPUTIN: Do you have any idea what would happen if that broke ? !
BARTOK: You 'd lose your security deposit ?
RASPUTIN: Evil , powerful beings - I have their power only if I contain them , control them . If they should all be released at once well
BARTOK: Ohhh , that was dumb
RASPUTIN: Finish my prophecy
BARTOK: Ew , I hate when he does this !
RASPUTIN: She is not to get off that train alive !
TATIANA: Take her away , Sophie .
TATIANA: Have n't anything better to do than to break my heart .
SOPHIE: Oh , oh I must say . I thought that one was bar - i 'm just so shocked that she was n't real well , she was real , I mean she was human , of course . but not our real . I must say , even my sisters were touched y her yes - yes they were
TATIANA: No , Sophie . My heart ca n't take it anymore ! I will see no more girls claiming to be Anastasia . Tatiana walks sadly out of the room .
DMITRI: Hurry up with those papers .
VLADIMIR: Would you have leaned ove Rembrant 's shoulder and told him to paint faster ? Vladimir looks at Dmitri 's anxious face .
DMITRI: `` Wake up , your highness '' - we should start getting used to saying it .
VLADIMIR: What a world - a man who was in my position in society is calling a peasant 'Your Highness '' .
DMITRI: Wake up !
VLADIMER: We have a lot of work to do
DMITRI: Come on !
ANYA: Sorry - it 's a reflex . Living in an orphanage if someone bothers you - you automatically come up swinging .
DMITRI: I was n't bothering you . I was trying to wake you up !
ANYA: By pulling my hair ? !
DMITRI: I was all out of dynamite !
ANYA: Put it on your nose . For heaven 's sake , you 're making such a fuss !
DMITRI: You 're a princess
VLADIMIR: Royalty do not help people with their luggage .
DMITRI: Yes . And I hate that in a woman .
GUARD: Papers !
VLADIMIR: It 's what I hate about this government - everything in red !
GUARD: Thank you , Comrade Zhivago .
ZHIVAGO: Doctor Zhivago . GUARD approaches Vlad and Dmitri .
VLADIMIR: What do we do now ?
DMITRI: Pray he 's color-blind
GUARD: wait here .
ANYA: I 'm going to stretch my legs
DMITRI: That 's a good idea - a great idea - stretch your legs stretch then that way .
ANYA: I must have hit him harder than I thought
GUARD: That 's them ! Come on !
DMITRI: Wait here !
ANYA: Would you like to tell what we are
DMITRI: Come on up !
ANYA: Why ?
DMITRI: Trying to breathe
ANYA: Forged papers ! Now , what ? !
DMITRI: Now just get off the train .
ANYA: HUH ? !
VLADIMIR: She 's quite right , Dmitri , a man of my stature should not have to
DMITRI: Come on , we 'll jump together Take my hand .
ANYA: No !
VLADIMIR: I think I have hurt my
DMITRI: You must enjoy causing me pain !
ANYA: You should n't have pushed us ! Vladimir and Meetoo come over .
VLADIMIR: Is everyone all right ?
ANYA: I 'm fine .
DMITRI: She 's fine ! I may never walk right again , ut she 's fine
RASPUTIN: She 's too far away , is n't she ?
BARTOK: Oy not a road trip . I get wagon sick , you know that .
RASPUTIN: We 'll catch her and finish her ! We ride this night !
BARTOK: Well , we wait this night !
VLADIMIR: No have a lot of work to do , Anya ! Come along , Meetoo !
ANYA: Who 's Sophie ?
VLADIMIR: Ah the Lady Sophie The avishing first cousin , once emoved , from the Empress . We must convince Sophie that you are the Princess before we 'll e granted a meeting with the Empress your grandmother , I mean .
ANYA: What ? !
DMITRI: You are the Princess .
VLADIMIR: We 're just going to refresh your memory
ANYA: I do n't have a memory and I 'm not a Princess ! Even if I were - no one 's eve going to believe it . I 'm not exactly
DMITRI: What do you see ?
VLADIMIR: Ah ! Let us begin ! u > A POSSIBLE VLADIMIR SONG
ANYA: and on my father 's side , there was
DMITRI: Every Russian family has one..
ANYA: Natasha ! Natasha Feastavich ! - ut we called her Nashie Fooshie !
VLADIMIR: Did I tell you that ?
ANYA: You must have .
DMITRI: It 's the best fork of all
ANYA: The dessert fork !
VLADIMIR: Ah , yes I have always loved that fork
ANYA: What a beautiful ship !
DMITRI: It used to be a private yacht efore the government took it over .
VLADIMIR: Oh , yes it was the seagoing vessel of elaborate elegance in entertaining A party boat . It once belonged to
ANYA: Konstantin Petrovich of Moscow !
ELDERLY DOWAGER: No , no , boys ! You do n't know where he 's been !
VLADIMIR: Come out ! I can do alterations .
DMITRI: I wo n't laugh - I swear
ANYA: You said you would n't laugh !
DMITRI: It 's not you - it 's the dress !
ANYA: I 'm never going to be..
VLADIMIR: You are a natural ! I do n't know how you ever learned to dance that well ! That must have been some high class orphanage
DMITRI: I wanted to show you something .
ANYA: It 's so beautiful and sad .
DMITRI: Sad ?
ANYA: Lost . it feels lost . This was hers ?
DMITRI: Yeah well , yours . You still do n't believe that you 're the Princess , do you ?
ANYA: I know I must have had something to do with the palace - I 've had little flashes of things - but eing the Princess ? It does n't matter as long as I find my home .
DMITRI: Well , the only thing you 've got when you 've got a home is a fea of losing it ! You 're lucky you do n't remember the revolution I never had much , but what I did have I lost .
ANYA: I 'm sorry .
DMITRI: Hey ! It does n't matter ! You got ta make your own way in the world ! Do n't be sorry for me ! I 'm going to get what I want do n't you worry !
RASPUTIN: She 's out there
BARTOK: I 'm getting a chest cold..
RASPUTIN: Bartok a question .
BARTOK: I 'm getting pneumonia . I have a fever . Feel my forehead
RASPUTIN: What do you think is the most humiliating way to die ?
BARTOK: My cousin Mischa , nice fellow had some dental problems - you did n't want to watch him eat , let 's put it that way Rasputin steps in
RASPUTTN: Show her to me
BARTOK: And it did n't help the tonal quality of the bell , either .
DMITRI: If you have to go - wake her..
BARTOK: Boy , do n't you hate it when that happens ?
RASPUTIN: She leads a charmed life , that little one Someone is always there to save her . In the palace as a child , on the train and now it 's him .
BARTOK: Nice looking fellow . I mean , do n't get me wrong - I 'm not attracted to him in the physical sense , I just
RASPUTIN: You are toying with me , are n't you ? You let me get so close
BARTOK: Me ? No . Rich food - it kills me . Ever try and fly after one of those heavy sauces ?
RASPUTIN: We are going to Paris - and while we 're there , let 's kill the young man . He annoys me .
ANYA: Oh ! I 'm sorry
DMITRI: It 's okay . Did n't hurt..
ANYA: I 'm almost there I 'm finally going to know
DMITRI: How is our current financial status ?
VLADIMIR: If I used the word `` bleak '' I would e optimistic .
DMITRI: It worked in Odessa
ELDERLY DOWAGER: Help ! My little dogs ! Chevalier ! Maurice ! Hold on , darlings !
DMITRI: I 'll save them , Madame
VLADIMIR: Such bravery ! Why , that man should e rewarded ! Amply rewarded !
ANYA: That was really very kind of you .
VLADIMIR: I wo n't say a word
DMITRI: Nervous ?
ANYA: Yes - If I ca n't convince Sophie , I 'll never be able to see Tatiana .
DMITRI: You 'll convince her . You have the qualities of a princess you 're poised and strong and beautiful even if you forget a couple dates of family names - she 'll know .
VLADIMIR: May I present her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia !
SOPHIE: Oh good ! We have n't seen an Anastasia in several days !
ANYA: Of course .
SOPHIE: Where were you born ?
ANYA: Father had fresh tropical fruits sent in . Oranges and pineapples from the far east . I remember I remember I threw an orange to a young boy who was hiding under a table
SOPHIE: Yes yes , it was fresh fruit . Well , maybe not `` fresh '' Estelle got one rather brown banana but
VLADIMIR: Are you impressed with our Anastasia ?
SOPHIE: Oh , heavens - I must say , yes .
VLADIMIR: Then , you 'll take her to see Tatiana ?
SOPHIE: Oh , heavens I must say no , no actually , I ca n't - Tatiana has efused to see any more girls .
VLADIMIR: Perhaps you could convince her ?
SOPHIE: Oh , heavens , no but She is going to be at the Ballet Russe tonight ! That 's the Russian Ballet - Russe fo Russian , oh those crazy French they only go to see which dancers will defect .
VLADIMIR: We did it ! We did it , my boy ! We 're going to see Tatiana at the ballet tonight and we 're going to be rich ! Rich !
DMITRI: But it 's not the money , Vlad .
VLADIMIR: Are you feeling all right ?
DMITRI: What do you mean ?
VLADIMIR: Dmitri You must understand that once you take her to Tatiana well , it 's over nothing can happen between you . She 's a princess and you 're a commoner .
ACCORDION PLAYER: Lovers !
FLOWER SELLER: Ooh la la !
MONTMARTRE: WE 'LL EAT SOME IN-SECTS THEN GO BACK AND HAVE
BARTOK: Sorry , it 's just you know I saw these french postcards once and ooh la la well , I 'm not sure about the `` ooh '' , but it 's the `` la la '' I 'm really lookin ' forward to Right , I 'm shutting up .
RASPUTIN: We 're close to her , are n't we ?
BARTOK: What do you think ? Is it me ?
VLADIMIR: Compliments of Sophie . Her escort has to look his best .
ANYA: How do I look ?
DMITRI: Look . There is your grandmother
ANYA: She 's so beautiful ! I do remembe her I remember her The music continues as Anya looks at Tatiana .
DMITRI: Come on . It 's time..
ANYA: I 'm so scared
DMITRI: Do n't be
DMITRI: I know .
DMITRI: Please , if you 'd just listen
TATIANA: Remove him at once .
DMITRI: Please ! Empress ! It 's not what you .
ANYA: Tell me it is n't true ? ! Tell me you did n't do this for the money !
DMITRI: No ! Well , yes , but
ANYA: No ! I thought you believed in me ! It was all a lie !
DMITRI: Sir ! Your rear tire is flat !
CHAUFFEUR: it is ?
TATIANA: Ulo ! Slow down !
DMITRI: I 'm not Ulo and I wo n't slow down . But you will listen to me !
TATIANA: You ! How dare you ? ! Stop this ca immediately !
DMITRI: Please do n't be afraid ! I 'm sorry , ut there was no other way !
TATIANA: Anastasia 's music box She had this all these years You could have found it
ANYA: Go away !
TATIANA: Who are you , child ?
ANYA: I do n't know ! I do n't want to hurt you Tatiana holds out the music box .
TATIANA: Do you remember this ?
ANYA: I remember something lost I 'm so confused ! Oh , please , just tell me if you recognize me ! Do you think I could have elonged to you
TATIANA: Oh ! Where did you get that ? !
ANYA: I 've always had it I came here ecause of this ! Tell me if you recognize it ! Please ! It 's all I have
TATIANA: It was hers my Anastasia 's If this is part of your scheme ! If you found it or stole - I do n't care , I 'll give you whatever you want just TELL ME
BOTH: AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER
BARTOK: He is gon na yellllll .
ANYA: and that Christmas dinner , when Cook made that awful plum pudding and we hid it in ou pockets so we would n't hurt he feelings ! I do remember so much now , Grandmama , - but not everything .
TATIANA: Do n't worry about that now , child , it will all come back to you now that you 're home
RASPUTIN: Yesss finally `` home '' . And what a charming girlish little home it is . Look , Bartok , little angels , the symbol of love . So sweet , so harmless .
TATIANA: Anastasia ! It was just a bat ! It 's gone , dear
ANYA: No , it was n't a bat ! I saw this horrible man - I remember him , I think
TATIANA: No , no child shush it 's all right
SOPHIE: A grand ball for the Princess . How very exciting . So much to do , so little time
TATIANA: Do it somewhere else , please . Quietly .
SOPHIE: Caterers invitations sabe dancers ! We must have saber dancers ! u > '' RULERS OF RUSSIA ''
PIERRE: Her head it is how you say ?
ANDRE: Beeg . Zat is how you say it . Beeg .
PIERRE: And the crown she is how you say ?
ANDRE: Small ! Zat is `` how you say '' it ! Do n't be so French , Pierre wit the `` how you say '' all za time - zat is eally annoying .
TATIANA: You are going to make a beautiful princess .
VLADIMIR: Madame , your eh guest has arrived .
TATIANA: Thank you , Vladimir. ,
VLADIMIR: Anya Anastasia I 'm sorry We did n't mean to hurt you Anya still wo n't look at him .
TATIANA: I sent for you because I owe you a debt of gratitude larger than I can ever repay
DMITRI: No . Empress , you
TATIANA: I want you to have the reward money - you 've earned it .
DMITRI: Empress , no ! I will not take the money ! I just came to tell you I was sorry
TATIANA: Young man , I
DMITRI: and I 'm going to keep my promise to stay out of you lives , forever .
TATIANA: You are the boy
DMITRI: I should go
TATIANA: That last night in the palace one boy showed us kindness and courage . You were the boy who saved our lives , were n't you ? Please , is there nothing I can do to epay you ?
DMITRI: Promise me she 'll have her home .
TATIANA: She does .
DMITRI: And tell me that she 's happy .
TATIANA: Oh , Dmitri.I wish that I could .
DMITRI: I 'm glad you found what you were looking for .
ANYA: I 'm glad you did too .
VLADIMIR: But this invitation came from the Empress herself ! It 's the social event of the decade ! You ca n't turn it down !
DMITRI: Watch me .
VLADIMIR: So where will you go ?
DMITRI: She found her home . Maybe it 's time I found one too !
RASPUTIN: So . You do n't want to go to the coronation , eh ?
DMITRI: Rasputin !
RASPUTIN: I know , I know you thought I was dead . That 's how the history ooks will remember me - not as the ruler of all of Russia , which I SHOULD HAVE BEEN - ut as the guy who was neve dead when you expected him to be .
DMITRI: What do you want ? !
RASPUTIN: The same thing I wanted ten years ago - all the Romonovs dead I got the others , now I have to finish up with that nuisance , Anastasia
DMITRI: You 're insane ! You did n't kill the Romonovs - it was the
RASPUTIN: STOP IT ! I DID SO KILL THEM ! And I 'm going to kill Anastasia .
MAJOR DOMO: then as I say `` Her Serene Highness Princess Anastasia '' you , your Highness , should walk out on to the stage and greet your
TATIANA: I believe her highness understands what she has to do .
ANYA: Oh , yes , Grandmama - I wait until I hear
TATIANA: No , not about the ceremony , Anastasia - do you understand the choice you must make . Anya turns to her in confusion .
ANYA: There 's no choice
VLADIMIR: Your `` guest '' is unable to attend . Tatiana is troubled by this news . Anya starts laughing when she sees Meetoo .
ANYA: Oh , Meetoo ! You look miserable ! Oh , Vlad - look at him !
VLADIMIR: Yes , your highness .
ANYA: Poor Meetoo !
VLADIMIR: Yes , your highness .
ANYA: Cut it out , Vlad ! I 'm not angry with you anymore - I know how much you needed the money .
TATIANA: But they did n't take the money - either one of them . I offered it to them , but they both refused .
ANYA: Dmitri did n't want the money ?
TATIANA: No , he just wanted to know you were happy .
VLADIMIR: Fortunately , I am to be married . With your highness , permission .
ANYA: Vlad , stop acting this way ! You 're my friend !
VLADIMIR: No . From now on I am you loyal subject you highness . By your leave ?
ANYA: Why does everyone have to act that way ?
TATIANA: You 'll have to become used to it , child , if you accept the crown
ANYA: `` If '' I accept ? ! Of course I 'm going to accept ! it 's what I always wanted !
TATIANA: Is it ? Is this what you want ? Tatiana gestures to the formality outside .
ANYA: I wanted to come home , Grandmama - and I did . I came back to my home with you .
TATIANA: You ca n't go back to find you home . Your home is in your heart , in the future that you make fo yourself .
ANYA: And this is my future . This is who I am !
TATIANA: This is who you were . Exactly who you are is up to you .
ANYA: I do n't know who I am ! I still do n't know !
TATIANA: Yes , you do . You do . Tatiana kisses her on the forehead .
ANYA: I 've spent my whole life waiting to find you
TATIANA: And we have found each othe nothing will ever change that ! I am your family , dear child , ut I may not be your home .
RASPUTIN: Look , Bartok . Most of them were there the night I made this curse . Now , they 'll get to see it finished ! Revenge is a dish best served in front of a larrrrrge audience !
BARTOK: Ahh , very witty . There 's this English guy - Noel Coward - I 'll bet he 's quaking
ANYA: Dmitri ?
RASPUTIN: Throw her off the edge ! Do it ! Anya looks up at the booming voice .
ANYA: Dmitri Look at me ! It 's Anya ! It 's ANYA !
ANYA: Dmitri . I know you would never hurt me . You love me .
DMITRI: Anya where are we ?
ANYA: I guess you are n't as powerful as you thought !
RASPUTIN: I 'll show you !
DMITRI: Run , Anya - go
ANYA: I 'm not leaving you !
RASPUTIN: Fighting for fair lady . How noble
DMITRI: Anya !
RASPUTIN: My curse is now complete ! Good-bye , babushka ! Anya looks over the ledge .
DMITRI: Take my hand ! Hurry !
ANYA: Do n't let me go !
DMITRI: I 'll never let go !
RASPUTIN: This little piggy had a palace this little piggy had a throne
DMITRI: Come on I 'll take you home .
ANYA: I am home .
FOR EDUCATIONAL: PURPOSES ONLY
SHARON: Can you hear me ? This one 's conscious !
SHARON: Wait . Wait . Listen to me . Can you feel that ?
ROBBY: '67 Chevy Impala .
SHARON: That 's what I said .
ROBBY: Needs a servicing .
SHARON: Do n't we all .
ROBBY: Jesus , Pogo ! Almost spilled my coffee again ! You did n't like his hair , or what ?
SHARON: I love Elvis hair . They were going two damn miles an hour .
ROBBY: Let 's roll to this fight in progress .
CATCH: Y'know since we 're both walking the same way , I could take one of those bags for you . That way , I do some upper body work while I 'm walking along . Helps my back . What d'you say ?
OLD MAN: It 's the dog food that makes it so heavy .
CATCH: I guess it 's worth it for a good dog .
KID: Look at this bitch . Whoo ! Benny , look at this !
SHARON: Three Adam Five show us 1019 to the jail with one male prisoner .
KID: Take off your uniform . Take off my handcuffs , bitch , and come back here . I want one touch .
ROBBY: Give it a rest ! Sharon is stone-faced through this .
KID: If you 're going to put me away , you got ta give me one sweet touch .
ROBBY: As I remove your cuffs , I want you to put your hands here . Spread your legs . More .
SANDERMAN: You trying to be a bad-ass , Pogue ? She is straightforward , not rebellious .
SHARON: I just dealt with the situation . The prisoner
SANDERMAN: And you do n't see a pattern here ? I want you to keep yourself way inside the line instead of walking on it . All right ? Are you taking notes ?
ROBBY: You broke his nose .
SHARON: He grabbed me . End of story .
ROBBY: And you were waiting for him . You were hoping . You were making long-range plans for his ass while he was mouthing off in the car and you 're supposed to be above that shit .
SHARON: If you think I crossed the line , put it in the report .
ROBBY: Pogo , stop the shit . What is it ? You pissed off at me , too ? They enter the car , Sharon behind the wheel .
SHARON: Not you , Rob . You 're a rare unthreatened male cop with a good marriage , and you like to eat where I eat so everything 's code four .
ROBBY: Come over for dinner tonight . I 'll call Charlene . She 'd like to see you . It 's been awhile . We 'll talk about it .
SHARON: Thanks . But she 'll invite friends , try and fix me up . She 's always trying to fix me up so she does n't have to worry about you and me .
ROBBY: She does n't worry about that .
SHARON: They all worry about that . They both smile wryly , driving on .
ROBBY: Got some action , huh ? Well , that 's promising .
SHARON: Yeah . Hot and heavy .
CATCH: Hey ! You want to turn that volume down ? What 's your point ?
DRIVER: You better watch your mouth , asshole .
CATCH: Why ? What 're you gon na do ? Kill me ?
MAN #2: Guy 's nuts . Let 's go .
CANDACE: Hi .
CATCH: Hi . Your keys are in the
CANDACE: Oh , thank you . Thanks a lot . God . I was trying to carry Tommy and all these bags . He was so tired . Of course , as soon as I put him down he had all this energy
CATCH: Sorry . Got ta be going .
MRS. VANDER: Sherry !
SHARON: Hi , Mrs. Vander . You 're looking good .
MRS. VANDER: Oh , you just wait . I splurged .
SHARON: Looks great .
MRS. VANDER: Y'know , I cried over the invitation just imagine me in church . It 'll be so good to spend time with you .
SHARON: Their vows ?
MRS. VANDER: Your mom and dad the ceremony
SHARON: Oh , yeah . We 've had there 's een some problems with the mail in our building , so I 'll probably get it today .
MRS. VANDER: Sure , honey . I 'll see you there .
SHARON: I did n't see his truck , so
LARRY: He 's not here .
SHARON: How you doing ?
LARRY: I 'm okay .
SHARON: Kathy and the boy ? Bet he 's big now .
LARRY: Growin ' fast .
SHARON: Is he looking more like you now or did he get lucky ?
LARRY: He 's got Kathy 's looks and brains and my strong back . You should feel his grip . You just passing by ? She looks about .
SHARON: Place is coming along nice . The octagon window . Dad 's signature .
LARRY: What 's happening ?
SHARON: So you really were n't going to tell me ? Nobody was going to tell me ? Mom and Dad renewing thei vows , the church , the party . Mrs. Vander is all excited . She bought a new dress . It 's blue .
LARRY: We 're workin ' on Dad . We think you should be there . We told him .
SHARON: Mom told him ?
LARRY: We mentioned it .
SHARON: He 's holding out , hah ?
LARRY: You want to come ?
SHARON: It 's my family . Jesus , Lar . It 's over ten years , and he wo n't let go of it .
LARRY: You two were always head to head .
SHARON: For good reason . Remember ?
LARRY: Let 's just leave it . She stares , then
SHARON: You 're still scared of him .
LARRY: I do n't think it 's a good idea you coming around here in uniform . People see it , they think we 're in trouble here .
SHARON: Nice seeing you , too .
SHARON: Two more minutes .
KATHY: Hi ! Look it 's your Auntie Sharon .
SHARON: Hey , Champ , my God , look how big .
KATHY: We 're bringing Larry his lunch . Hey , it 's good to see you . It 's een awhile . What ?
SHARON: I 'm semi-okay . I heard about the ceremony and the party .
KATHY: Oh . I hope you 'll be there . Really .
SHARON: Take it easy . You too , Champ .
RAY: Break-in alarm . One suspect in nobody out . Take the back . And they are moving .
ROBBY: Freeze !
SHARON: Three-A-5 , foot pursuit . Suspect fleeing south on Pico Place , young man , green jacket . No visible weapon Robby !
ROBBY: Right behind you ! Stop and lie down with you arms shit . The man has jumped a fence . Sharon follows .
SHARON: I see him ! She goes over the fence , then Robby .
ROBBY: Citizen on your right ! Hey !
ROBBY: Gun !
SHARON: Freeze ! Right there !
ROBBY: Hey ! Wait !
RAY: You got him ?
ROBBY: He was armed .
RAY: Jesus .
ROBBY: Citizen took him down .
RAY: No shit ! ?
RAY: What happened here ?
CATCH: I just saw it and I saw the gun , so
ROBBY: You all right , Pogo ? She is shaken , speaks softly .
SHARON: I was dead . Y'know .
CATCH: I was just walking by . I live near here . Ray nods , handing the I.D . to Sanchez .
SANCHEZ: Sergeant 's going to want to talk to you , Mr. Lambert . We 'll need a statement .
RAY: Do n't worry about it . That 's just procedure . Look we appreciate what you did . No bullshit . Let us buy you a drink tonight , all ight ? You know where the Ri House is ? Catch glances at Sharon again , and he nods .
CATCH: I got you nectarines because the peaches are hard as rocks .
ELANORA: Your jacket 's all dirty .
CATCH: He had the ball . He was going fo a touchdown .
ELANORA: Can you be serious ?
CATCH: What day is today ?
ELANORA: Wednesday .
CATCH: No .
ELANORA: Oh ? That 's good . Ahh they had the broccolini today . Thank you .
CATCH: A woman .
ELANORA: You did n't tackle her , too , did you ?
CATCH: No .
ELANORA: Good , Catch .
CATCH: She 's a police officer .
ELANORA: Are you in trouble ? Catch goes on working , a depth in his eyes .
CATCH: No . No trouble .
ELANORA: Well that 's a good thing .
CATCH: I saw her once a long time ago .
ELANORA: Where ?
CATCH: She looks the same .
COP: Beautiful . And Sanchez says proudly .
SANCHEZ: Yeah . My wife 's got him in agility class .
RAY: No shit .
RAY: 'Rex . ' Rex is good . I wonder who the first person was to name a dog 'Fido , ' and what the hell does it mean ?
SHARON: I like how you 're always asking the big questions , Ray .
RAY: I got a big question for you , Pogo but I can only ask it when we 're alone .
SHARON: Here use this call your wife and ask her instead .
SANCHEZ: I happen to know Ray 's wife is usy tonight . They laugh and drink and Ray asks her
RAY: Why does n't your partner ever come out with us ?
SHARON: Robby 's a family man .
RAY: I 'm a family man .
SHARON: Yeah , but his family actually likes him .
RAY: That Lambert I guess he 's not showing either .
RAY: Where are you going ?
SHARON: The head . Do you mind ?
SANCHEZ: She 's just gon na freshen up he makeup .
RAY: You 're wearing makeup ? She leaves the booth with a wry frown .
SHARON: That reminds me , Ray . You still have that eye-liner you borrowed from me ? She grins , leaving the laughter behind her .
SHARON: We thought you would n't show . Why you sitting here ? He shrugs .
CATCH: I do n't talk to a lot of people . Would you ?
SHARON: I did n't have a chance to thank you . I 'm Sharon Pogue .
CATCH: I guess I live on the beat you patrol .
SHARON: Why would you do that jump a man with a gun ?
CATCH: He was going to shoot you .
SHARON: He could 've shot you . You have a death wish ? You a bungee jumper ?
CATCH: No . I did n't have time to think about it .
SHARON: What d'you think about it now ?
CATCH: I figure it was worth the risk .
SHARON: For someone you do n't even know ?
CATCH: Yeah and for what you do . I think cops are great . Out there , trying to keep it safe . You know ? Tough job . Firemen are everybody 's heroes . Kids wave at firemen . People should wave at cops . Did you ever think about how many people are walking around this town because you saved them ?
SHARON: I never thought about it .
CATCH: because you helped them o ecause you arrested somebody who would 've hurt them or because you just did your job ?
SHARON: Now I 'm walking around this town ecause of you . Ever think about that ? Maybe you should be a cop .
CATCH: I do n't know I look pretty dum in a hat He has made her smile .
SHARON: Okay . What d'you do ? You employed around here ? Oh , God . Sorry . Every time I try to talk to somebody , it comes out like an interrogation .
CATCH: Where do you want to be ten years from now ?
SHARON: What ?
CATCH: Somebody taught that to me . Kind of a shortcut . You ask somebody , what are your plans fo tomorrow what 're your dreams for ten years from now . It 's supposed to get things started .
SHARON: Does it work ?
CATCH: I never tried it .
SHARON: Bullshit .
CATCH: No . Really . I just remembered it God is my witness .
SHARON: Not in here . It 's mostly cops .
CATCH: The shortcut .
SHARON: Okay . I 'll play . They clink glasses and drink . Then
CATCH: Tibet ?
SHARON: Could be Tibet . Could be Colorado . Your turn .
RAY: Hey , Pogo do n't keep him all to yourself . Come on over , Lambert , join the group . We 'll buy you dinner , give you a medal fo saving Pogo 's ass . Sharon drains her shot and stands .
SHARON: Actually , I 'm kind of tired , Ray . I 'm taking off .
CATCH: Oh . I 'll walk you to your car . Catch stands and turns to Ray .
RAY: Least we could do . We do n't like her very much but we do n't want to lose her .
CATCH: Take care . And Catch and Sharon leave .
SHARON: It 's not a great neighborhood . Maybe I should walk you to you car .
CATCH: I do n't have a car .
SHARON: Want a ride home ?
CATCH: Oh , thanks , but I like to walk .
SHARON: It 's starting to rain . Do n't be a hero . He hesitates , nervous about it , but then
CATCH: Yeah . If it 's no trouble . Thanks . They walk to her car .
SHARON: Okay ten years from now , what d'you want to be doing ?
CATCH: I do n't know . This is pretty good .
CATCH: Can you drive okay ? She gets a little defensive .
SHARON: I 'm not drunk . You think I 'm drunk ? I 'm not . You 'll know I 'm drunk when I 'm throwing up , and I never throw up , so do n't worry about it . He nods , looks at her dead-on a moment .
CATCH: The only time I worry is when people tell me not to worry .
SHARON: Get in the car , will you ?
CATCH: I 'm on Lundy Street , just off Pico .
SHARON: I 'm good at this .
CATCH: Streets are wet .
SHARON: Are you one of those people who drive ten miles an hour in the ain ? I hate that .
CATCH: I never drive .
CATCH: Y'know , I can picture you in Colorado .
SHARON: Oh yeah ? What am I doing there ?
CATCH: Driving around pissed off . She smiles in spite of herself , slows down .
SHARON: I 'm not pissed off at you .
CATCH: Give me some time .
SHARON: Those guys in the bar are my friends sort of . We work together , we tell jokes and we ullshit , but I ca n't say to them She halts .
CATCH: What ?
SHARON: Every time I close my eyes , I see that goddamn gun pointing at me and I do n't know why I 'm telling you unless it 's because you were there and because I had three drinks , but I 'm not ready to go inside and close my eyes and I do n't want to go to your place and I do n't want to keep driving around , so what the hell do we do ?
CATCH: Whew . I feel like we 're boxing , and you 've got me on the ropes . We 'll do whatever you want .
SHARON: What I want is to know how you happened to be walking by that parking lot at that minute . What if you hadn ' t been there ? For a moment , she shows her fear .
CATCH: I guess we were supposed to meet . They stare a while , then she opens her door .
SHARON: If you want you can come in fo a minute .
CATCH: No thanks .
SHARON: Sit down or something .
CATCH: I 'm circling awhile .
SHARON: You 're not supposed to look around . I did n't have time to straighten up .
CATCH: So it 's more real this way .
SHARON: It 's rude . He turns to her .
CATCH: Now that I 'm in here , you seem mad about it .
SHARON: I 'm not mad . You 'll know when I 'm mad . I do n't usually let somebody in here , but here you are . That 's all . Let 's talk about something stupid .
CATCH: You first . She smiles in spite of herself .
SHARON: Okay one thing I do n't believe is that 'supposed to ' business . We were 'supposed to ' meet . That sounds a little fringy to me , like something you might hear on public access TV . You believe that ?
CATCH: Some people say we each give off a particular odor that can only e detected by one other person 's ain .
SHARON: So , we smell each other ? Who says that ?
CATCH: I have no idea . I 'm more in the destiny school , we-met-in-another-life school . Do you believe that ? Do you think when we die we come back in another form ?
SHARON: You mean like a duck ? No . I think dead is dead . I 've been thinking about it all day and I do n't want to think about it anymore .
CATCH: See ? Now you 're thinking about me .
SHARON: It 's Austria , but I ca n't picture myself in Austria . I 'm not good with languages , so I could n't qualify for the departments ove there .
CATCH: Does that mean I 'm going ?
SHARON: No . You do n't have to . I
CATCH: You okay now ?
SHARON: Oh . You 're here as a medic .
CATCH: Is this the mad part ?
SHARON: Maybe going is a good idea .
CATCH: Can I come back some time ?
SHARON: Why ?
CATCH: Must be the smell .
SHARON: Oh , God .
DRIVER: What the hell do you think you 're doing ? !
MAN: Hey ! Hey ! What did you do ?
MAN: That 's my car ! What the hell were you doing ?
CATCH: Nothing . I just The Man shoves him .
MAN: I saw you ! What did you take out of there ? !
CATCH: No , I rolled up the window . It 's ain The Man gets in his face , shaky
MAN: You take my phone ? ! Hah ? !
CATCH: Hey ! Hey ! Wake up ! Wake up !
CATCH: Oh . Sorry .
CANDACE: Shopping day ?
SHARON: It 's looking great , Mom .
MOTHER: Thanks , honey . It 's the best yea ever for the impatiens . The very est . There is a beat of awkward silence .
SHARON: Looks the same . Still smells like cigarettes . I thought he quit .
MOTHER: He 's down to six a day .
SHARON: Your hair looks nice .
MOTHER: Are you well ?
SHARON: I guess I 'm well . Is this always here ?
MOTHER: Yes . It 's always there .
SHARON: Did Larry tell you I came by where he 's working ? Is that why you called me ?
MOTHER: I called because we want to invite you to our renewal of vows . It 's three weeks from Saturday .
SHARON: Who 's 'we . ' You said 'we ' want to invite you .
MOTHER: The family . Sharon takes that in , still looking about .
SHARON: How come you 're renewing you vows ?
MOTHER: It 's sort of a fresh start .
SHARON: Your idea ?
MOTHER: No . Both of us . It 's a way of having the marriage blessed .
SHARON: Was n't it blessed before ?
MOTHER: Sherry of course it was lessed . You just
SHARON: I just what , Mom ?
MOTHER: You just think about the bad , and you never remember the good . I wish you remembered the good . Sharon stares deeply at her .
SHARON: Sorry . I wish I did , too . Does he ? Remember any good about me ?
MOTHER: Of course . He does n't hate you . He just still feels hurt .
SHARON: Hurt ? I hurt him ?
MOTHER: Being arrested like that . Somebody does n't forget that .
SHARON: Oh ? How come you forgot what he did ?
MOTHER: It was n't as bad you always make it sound worse . And it has n't been that way for years .
SHARON: I 'm glad it has n't been that way . That means it worked , Mom . That was the point . That 's why I did it . Christ . Why do I get punished for it ?
MOTHER: Honey , nobody 's punishing you . We 're inviting you . Will you come ?
SHARON: Of course I 'll come .
MOTHER: We did n't think you 'd want to .
SHARON: Why not ?
MOTHER: We do n't want any trouble on that day . Please .
SHARON: Mom , I 'm your daughter . I do n't want any trouble ever . I 'll come to the ceremony . I wo n't come to argue , and I wo n't come in uniform . They each get a small , sad smile .
MOTHER: It 's on the 23rd . Saint Monica 's .
SHARON: I 'd like you to send me an invitation . Mrs. Vander said it 's a beautiful invitation . Her Mother starts to leave the room .
MOTHER: I 'll show you .
SHARON: Mom . I 'd like to get one in the mail from my family . Okay ?
MOTHER: Yes .
SHARON: Tell Dad thanks . And she leaves .
SHARON: Do you have a machine ?
CATCH: What ?
SHARON: Do you have an answering machine ?
CATCH: Yes .
SHARON: Will you hang up please , and I 'll call your machine .
CATCH: Why ?
SHARON: Hi . Maybe we can have eakfast or something . I get up early and run in Ballard Park . There 's a Denny 's across from the park . Like eight or so . If you 're there , you 're there . She hangs up , sighs a heavy one .
SHARON: Hi , do n't pick up . Look , I did n't sleep much and anyway this is a ad idea . I was feeling funky last night and I 'm all right now so let 's just leave it where it 's at . Bye . Oh , thanks for the Bye .
SHARON: I was just falling asleep . Finally .
CATCH: We made a date .
SHARON: It was n't a 'date . '
CATCH: Okay , an 'appointment . ' I keep my appointments .
SHARON: I called you . I called you at seven .
CATCH: I get up early . I walked there . I waited there .
SHARON: Check your messages .
CATCH: Come back ? What makes you think I 'd come back here ? The lump under the sheet says
SHARON: Then why are you here ?
CATCH: I 'm here to tell you that when you tell someone you 're going to be somewhere then that someone earranges his life and you should e more aware of that and a lot more considerate instead of just
SHARON: What 's in the bag ?
CATCH: What ? None of your business .
SHARON: Did you bring some coffee ?
CATCH: You think you deserve coffee ?
SHARON: What else did you bring ? Food ?
CATCH: You definitely do n't deserve food . I 've got coffee , sugar , sweetener , non-dairy
SHARON: Just black . Black . Thanks .
CATCH: What 's the difference ?
SHARON: What 's the difference ? ! You 're standing in my bedroom . That 's the difference . Who are you ?
CATCH: Somebody who keeps appointments .
SHARON: You 're ducking . Do n't duck . Oh , shit you 're married , right ?
CATCH: I 'm not .
SHARON: I do n't believe you .
CATCH: You do n't believe me ? Give me ack the coffee .
SHARON: No .
CATCH: Give me the coffee .
SHARON: Oh , God . Oh , wait you 're involved in some criminal activity , are n't you ? Great That 's all I need .
CATCH: My name is Catch Lambert . I do n't work . I do n't commit any crimes . I like being with you . We can start from here from now .
SHARON: Bullshit . I 'm I let you in here . I 'm not going to be some fool . I need the details .
CATCH: And I need to start from here .
SHARON: That 's ridiculous . Why ?
CATCH: That 's the way it is .
SHARON: Oh . Your rules .
CATCH: My rules .
SHARON: Jesus . Okay . Fine . I do n't eally want to know you anyway . Goodbye .
CATCH: Yeah . Sure . Come in .
SHARON: You live here ? Nobody lives here . This place is some kind of front , a scam , a drop or what ?
CATCH: This is what you told me about ight ?
SHARON: What ?
CATCH: Your interrogation . Do I need a lawyer ?
SHARON: I just do n't want to be jerked around .
CATCH: I 'm not .
SHARON: Then tell me straight out . Who are you ?
CATCH: What is it you 're looking for ?
SHARON: Your life . I do n't want any surprises .
CATCH: This is it . I sleep here . I walk around town . That 's all of it .
SHARON: That 's all of it ?
CATCH: Yeah . Except for you the way I feel about you .
SHARON: Which is ?
CATCH: Surprising . I thought it was impossible . I thought I was
SHARON: You thought you were what ? Gay ?
CATCH: Dead . In a way .
SHARON: I 'm supposed to understand that ?
CATCH: No . Did you ever wonder what 'scratch ' meant , when people say , 'we 'll start from scratch ' ? This is scratch . We can start from here .
SHARON: I do n't know . I just do n't know .
ELANORA: I remember that . That was a smile .
CATCH: You know the cop the woman cop ? She visited me .
ELANORA: Oh ? Where did she sit ?
CATCH: I have a chair now .
ELANORA: You 're seeing her ? He darkens a bit as he works .
CATCH: She has a lot of questions . She wants to know everything .
ELANORA: Of course she does . Everybody does .
CATCH: We could start from today . What 's so wrong with that ?
ELANORA: Tell her .
CATCH: Tell her what ? Mrs. Chu comes closer .
ELANORA: Tell her , Catch . Tell somebody . It 's been almost two years .
CATCH: Nora
ELANORA: Every time I tell somebody , it gets a little bit easier . I 'm not saying it goes His next warning is tough and absolute .
CATCH: Nora !
ELANORA: She nice ? He starts to work again .
CATCH: She 's tough .
ELANORA: She pretty ?
CATCH: That does n't matter .
ELANORA: She is pretty .
CATCH: She 's sort of pissed-off at me .
ELANORA: Apologize .
CATCH: For what ?
ELANORA: It does n't matter . We like it when men apologize . He stares at her a while .
CATCH: I 'm sorry I yelled at you . She smiles and hands him the box .
ELANORA: Have a cookie . See ?
SANDERMAN: Sharon
SHARON: Lieutenant
SANDERMAN: Anything bothering you ?
SHARON: Why ? What 'd I do ?
SANDERMAN: Nothing . I 'm talking about you general attitude lately .
SHARON: My attitude 's fine . End of a long day . I 'm tired .
SANDERMAN: Family matters getting to you ?
SHARON: Family ? !
SANDERMAN: Your brother , Larry
SHARON: What about Larry ?
SANDERMAN: You know Nester on the Culve City P.D. ? He went out on a violent domestic dispute yesterday . A neighbor called it in . It got a little ugly . No arrest a warning . This hits her hard .
SHARON: Larry . Oh Christ .
SANDERMAN: Nester said it 's not the first time .
SHARON: Thanks for telling me .
LARRY: Jesus , you 're up early .
SHARON: I wanted to catch you before you went to work .
LARRY: I thought you were on late shifts .
SHARON: I do n't sleep much . Can I come in ?
LARRY: What 's up ?
SHARON: Where 's Kath ?
LARRY: She 's busy with Larry Jr. right now . Sharon nods , but then walks past him .
SHARON: Hey , Champ .
LARRY: Why 'd you come by ?
SHARON: To see Kathy .
LARRY: She 's not feeling good .
SHARON: I 'll just say hello .
KATHY: Do n't make it worse .
SHARON: It gets worse ?
KATHY: He 's okay now . He 's torn up about it . Do n't make him mad .
SHARON: When Larry and I were growing up , our mother said that all the time . 'Do n't make your father mad . ' Has he hit Larry Jr. yet ?
KATHY: He never would .
SHARON: Oh . Just you , huh ? Larry is in the doorway now , angry .
LARRY: What d'you think you 're doing in my house , Shar ? In my home . She walks out of the room and he follows her .
SHARON: You see a pattern here , bro ?
LARRY: I lost my temper . Things got out of hand . It wo n't
SHARON: People always say that ' I 've got a temper . ' Like it 's an excuse .
LARRY: I do n't need a goddamn lecture . She comes very close to him .
SHARON: You want to hit someone ? Next time your 'temper ' flares up , Lar , and you just have to hit somebody , you go home and hit your father .
LARRY: You blame everything on him .
SHARON: I 'm blaming you , you fucking coward . He grabs her shirt hard .
LARRY: You do n't come in here He pushes her into the wall .
SHARON: What do you call a man who uses his wife as a punching bag ? Coward .
KATHY: Do n't hurt her , Lar !
SHARON: I know how it feels , 'cause I emember . I remember standing etween you and Dad and taking the lows for you and for what ? ! You turned out to be just like him , you bastard . And so did I . And she leaves the house and SLAMS the DOOR .
SHARON: It 's you , right ?
CATCH: I did n't say anything .
SHARON: I do n't want to talk . I do n't care if you have to play some game and pretend you 're a 'angel of mercy ' or whatever . I do n't care , but I do n't want to hea about it . All right ? I do n't want to hear anything .
SHARON: Kiss me someplace I 've never been kissed .
CATCH: New day .
PINDELLA: Catch ?
CATCH: Drive , will you ?
CATCH: Drive !
SHARON: What ? You owe him money ?
CATCH: If you take a right and stop we can walk from here . I 'd rathe walk .
SHARON: If you 're in trouble
CATCH: I 'm not .
SHARON: If you 're in trouble with him , maybe I can help .
CATCH: Forget about him . Somebody I used to know . I do n't want to know him anymore . That 's all . Forget about it . Walk with me .
SHARON: This is not a great place to walk .
CATCH: I like it here . It 's fine .
SHARON: I work here . It 's not fine .
CATCH: What 's the problem ?
SHARON: Besides the shootings , break-ins , apes , cart thefts ? We 've got a loose dog raiding garbage cans , knocking 'em over . Ca n't catch him . Got somebody blowing a trumpet between midnight and three . Ca n't find him .
CATCH: How 's it goin ' ?
YOUNG MAN: Goin ' uphill , man . Catch and Sharon smile .
CATCH: You try it .
SHARON: Try what ?
CATCH: Go ahead . We need this . Everybody .
SHARON: I feel like a jerk . I feel like a smiley face .
OLD MAN: Mornin ' .
MOM: Go on .
CATCH: She feels bad 'cause you yelled at her .
MOM: What ? ! Who the hell do you think you are ?
CATCH: She just needs you to smile at her .
MOM: It 's none of your business !
CATCH: Why not smile at her ? What 's it cost ?
MOM: Who the hell are you to talk to me ? !
CATCH: You 're so damn impatient .
WOMAN: Get away from me !
CATCH: You 're so busy being pissed off , and time is going by .
WOMAN: What ? !
CATCH: It 's not her fault .
WOMAN: I 'm calling the police !
CATCH: No . I 'm calling the police . Hey police .
SHARON: Jesus Christ , Catch .
CATCH: Maybe she 'll think about it now .
SHARON: You had no right to do that . God ! You think you know everything ? ! Who the hell are you , some expert on raising kids ? ! The neighborhood angel ? ! Jesus !
CATCH: No . No , I just some people are walking around blind
SHARON: That 's not your problem !
CATCH: Do n't tell me what my problem is !
SHARON: Okay , fine you tell me what it is !
CATCH: Maybe it 's not my problem . Maybe it 's your problem . Maybe you 're going around blind .
SHARON: Blind to what ? !
CATCH: Blind to what 's going on around you . Blind to what people need . We 're supposed to take care of each other . We 're supposed to keep each other safe . That 's the way it should be if you 're not going around blind , like that woman
SHARON: Or like me , right ? What about you ? How come you can see ?
CATCH: I think I 'll walk the rest of the way on my own .
SHARON: Yeah . Fine .
CATCH: I 'll call you later about the hiking .
SHARON: I 'll be out .
CATCH: Shar wait . Hey !
CATCH: Do we go for symmetry ? Or more off-center . Japanese .
LARRY: I do n't want you around here .
SHARON: Let 's go talk in the yard .
LARRY: You asked for it calling me a coward . You knew I 'd swing . You think I look bad now ? Look at this .
SHARON: I 'm sorry I hit you so hard .
LARRY: But you 're not sorry you hit me .
SHARON: Jesus , Larry , what about Kathy 's face ? !
LARRY: That 's not your business ! Nobody called you , right ? She did n't ask for you to come here . This is my family . You do n't get it , 'cause you 've got no family . Nobody . So you try to run everybody else 's life . Jesus Christ get you own life . That 's the goddam problem . Get your own goddamn life . Their stare holds , but she is giving way .
SHARON: Okay . I 'm sorry I came here . I 'm sorry I hit you . Okay ?
LARRY: Okay what ? This is very hard for her .
SHARON: Do n't go to my department , all ight ?
LARRY: Why the hell not ?
SHARON: Larry
LARRY: Why not ? !
SHARON: Because the job 's all I got .
LARRY: That 's what I said , right ? No life .
SHARON: That 's what you said . He makes her wait , thinking it over .
LARRY: And you wo n't come around here . You wo n't call . Ever . In a moment Sharon nods .
SHARON: I got a life !
LARRY: I know .
SHARON: You know nothing about me , because you do n't want to know . The family does n't want to know me . Well , too bad . Sharon 's got a life . Sharon 's got a boyfriend . Sharon 's going hiking in the morning with her boyfriend . She 's not sitting alone miserable like you want . Too bad !
CATCH: Hey . Hey ! Can you wait up a minute ? ! She waits . He catches up .
SHARON: I thought you walked all over the city .
CATCH: The city is flat . Okay ? Can we stop here ? Can we examine the view ? Have a Milky Way ? I 've urned every calorie I ever had . But she walks on .
SHARON: My favorite lunch spot is anothe half mile .
CATCH: Up ? !
SHARON: I 'm okay . Everything 's code four .
CATCH: Everything 's what ?
SHARON: Everything 's fine .
CATCH: Fine ? This is n't fine . I know fine . This is something else . Something happened yesterday .
SHARON: Yesterday you mean you want to hear about it ?
CATCH: Sure I do .
SHARON: No kidding . Why ? You never talk about yesterday .
CATCH: All my days are the same .
SHARON: Yesterday . Okay . Yesterday we olled on a 415 . Juliette and Sanchez had these four guys against a wall , but they were H.D.B . and definitely unco-op . It got pretty jumpy , but we got them in the car with a couple of uises and Robby got a sprained wrist , so I did the rest of the shift with a rookie who lost it over a D.B . in Sunset Park , old woman who 'd been dead maybe six , seven days , and I usually do all ight but the smell got to me , and I can still smell her . Then we arrested a prostitute working out of her home , and I carried he little girl out to the social worker , and the kid was holding on eal tight and making my shoulde wet and I wanted to punch he ock-head mother , and then shift ended and I had a nice visit with my brother Larry .
CATCH: I 'm sorry . That would make anybody sad .
SHARON: Sorry you asked ?
CATCH: No . No , you can always tell me .
SHARON: Well I feel better now . You feel better ?
CATCH: I feel fine . Great .
SHARON: What are you doing ? !
CATCH: Take the day off , Pogo !
SHARON: What if a park ranger comes ? !
CATCH: Take your badge off for once . Do n't be such a damn Marine about everything . Just
CATCH: Someplace I 've never been kissed .
SHARON: Looks like a bad one .
CATCH: I do n't remember it . I
SHARON: We should be thinking about lunch . We have to pack up .
CATCH: So soon ?
SHARON: Some of us have to work . You ever work ?
CATCH: Yeah . I worked .
SHARON: Oh ? You remember that ? Working ?
JACK: Catch Jesus !
CATCH: I 've been around . Jack 's smile clouds as memory kicks in .
JACK: Oh , man , I 'm really sorry about what happened . I never got a chance to say Catch , with a steady look , says
CATCH: We do n't need to go there . Jack nods a moment .
JACK: Okay . All right . So what d'you want , a coffee ?
CATCH: I want my old job back . What d'you think ?
JACK: You been workin ' ?
CATCH: No , but I 'm up to speed .
JACK: Well , it 's not good with Randal anymore .
CATCH: No ?
JACK: No , he 's out of it , but Danny Coley 's got something going . Wan na go see 'im ? Catch stares , nods .
CATCH: Finish your coffee .
SHARON: I have to check these jacket pockets . What 's your name Allison ? The girl nods , not trusting her voice .
ALLISON: St. Mark 's .
SHARON: Lift your arms higher . Got a good asketball team at St. Mark 's . You play basketball ?
ROBBY: What 's going on , Pogo ? You 're not happy or anything ?
SHARON: Well , it 's a mix , Robby . Life is shit , but I 'm dating this great dead guy . She smiles at Robby 's look .
ROBBY: What ?
SHARON: Shhh . Sh !
ROBBY: This time we got his ass .
SHARON: Wow .
ROBBY: Got 'im ?
SHARON: Look at that moon .
ROBBY: Full moon , man . Hey !
DRIVER: This guy 's crazy !
SHARON: Are you McGuire ?
DRIVER: I never touched his car .
SHARON: Ow . Ow !
CATCH: Sorry .
SHARON: No . That 's good . Deeper .
CATCH: How heavy was this guy ?
SHARON: Like a truck .
CATCH: God . Tractor-trailer ?
SHARON: Pickup . Ow . Ow ! That 's really good .
CATCH: I better More oil .
CATCH: This is pretty .
SHARON: Do n't get oil on it .
CATCH: Renewal of vows that 's great . Is this your parents ?
SHARON: Yes . Just put it down . I 'm not going .
CATCH: Why not ?
SHARON: If I go , my brother 'll hurt me with the department . I got mad and knocked him down . All they need is a complaint . Just leave it alone and keep rubbing . Okay ?
CATCH: So he says you ca n't go ?
SHARON: Ca n't you rub without talking ? It 's been bad with my family a long time , so the hell with it anyway . If they do n't want me there , I do n't want to be there . All right ?
CATCH: All right . Bad how ?
SHARON: Oh , Jesus !
SHARON: My father used to knock us around , all of us . But I 'm the one who called the cops finally . They say I turned against the family .
CATCH: But they invited you .
SHARON: You do n't know anything about it . So forget it .
CATCH: Well I know about family .
SHARON: Oh , yeah ? What about it ?
CATCH: It 's a door you do n't close .
SHARON: I did n't close the door .
CATCH: You 're closing it now . Right ? Family invites you , you go . Family shows up , you welcome them in . That 's family .
SHARON: Oh , sure . What if they do n't deserve it ?
CATCH: Then you forgive .
SHARON: You have all the answers .
CATCH: No . I just It seems like a chance , does n't it ? A chance to make things right . I 'd take it . Then you tried y'know ? And it 's up to them .
SHARON: You close with your family ?
CATCH: What 's your favorite song ?
SHARON: Catch , I 'm beat . So are they . I think they 're finished .
CATCH: One more . It 's a surprise .
CATCH: Thanks , Danny .
SHARON: Where I 've never been kissed .
SHARON: Oh , God .
RAY: Are you in danger there ?
SHARON: Go away .
RAY: I was talking to him , Pogo .
CATCH: No thanks , Ray . Everything 's code four . Go away .
SHARON: See that place ? He 's going to be playing there every weekend .
RAY: Oh , yeah ? What d'you play ?
SHARON: It 's music , Ray . You would n't like it .
CATCH: You like these ?
TOMMY: Yeah !
CATCH: Well They 're for you . We can pretend it 's your birthday .
TOMMY: They 're for me , Mom ! Her look of surprise questions him .
CATCH: Yeah . I 've kind of been saving them up .
CANDACE: For Tommy ?
CANDACE: Wow , Tommy Look at them all . Did you say thank you ?
BIKER: Goddammit I saw the kid . Jesus . I was n't even close .
BIKER: Why the hell did you cause a wreck ? ! I told you I saw the kid , you idiot . I was
CATCH: One more word , and your life will change forever .
SHARON: Catch ! Catch !
SHARON: Please . Wait . I Catch !
ROBBY: Are you going to tell me why we 're sitting outside this building again ?
SHARON: Watching for somebody . Tall guy . 40s . Grey-blond hair .
ROBBY: What 's it about ?
SHARON: It 's personal .
ROBBY: Fine what am I supposed to do ?
SHARON: Chill .
CATCH: Hi .
CATCH: I 'll call you . He hangs up , staring at his thoughts .
SHARON: Give me fifteen . And she hurries after the man .
PINDELLA: Oh is there a problem ?
SHARON: I 'm not sure . Who am I speaking to ?
PINDELLA: I 'm Dr. Pindella . She takes her time , afraid .
SHARON: What kind of doctor ?
PINDELLA: What is this ?
SHARON: Do you know a Catch Lambert ?
PINDELLA: Oh . Yes ! Is he in trouble ?
SHARON: I need to talk to you . He glances at his watch , worried for Catch .
PINDELLA: Well , I have a patient in five minutes . But I can
SHARON: Are you a ?
PINDELLA: I 'm a psychiatrist .
SHARON: And Mr. Lambert
PINDELLA: My relationship with Mr. Lambert is confidential .
SHARON: He 's your patient . He 's you patient we know all this . This is police business . I 'm office Sharon Pogue L.A.P.D .
PINDELLA: Look I want to help Mr. Lambert ut I ca n't tell you anything that is n't public record .
SHARON: In general . In general . He 's your patient , and he
PINDELLA: He 's not my patient . He walked away from treatment . That was nearly a year ago .
SHARON: Why did he walk away ?
PINDELLA: I ca n't discuss that , but if you know how to reach him , I would appreciate being able to talk to him .
SHARON: You can help by just telling me what 's in the public record . It 'll take me half a day to do a search . Can you tell me ? Just
PINDELLA: You were with him in the car . Your uniform threw me . Are you his friend ? She looks at him , nods .
SHARON: More . He takes that in , leans back on the desk .
PINDELLA: I can tell you he was in an accident , hospitalized , referred to me as an outpatient
SHARON: What accident ?
PINDELLA: A bus a city bus hit his vehicle . That was a couple of years ago . It was an awful thing . His family was in the van . His wife and child . His wife 's parents
SHARON: A bus and a van . Where ? On the freeway ?
PINDELLA: Remember ?
SHARON: Yes . I was there . I was there . Pindella stares , then
PINDELLA: His wife 's mother survived , but she was paralyzed . She takes a moment , absorbing this .
SHARON: Does he still see her ?
PINDELLA: He used to . I do n't know . I 'm glad to see he has someone else who cares about him . I know he 's running from this . He left all his friends , his home , his whole life .
SHARON: He says he does n't remember the accident .
PINDELLA: He lost a lot of memory . I tried to help him with that . He esisted . Walked away . She stares .
SHARON: I think he remembers me . Very subdued now , she asks
PINDELLA: He received a large settlement from the city , but hebarely touches it . He was a professional musician . She stares at him and nods .
SHARON: Trumpet .
CATCH: Shar , I 'm sorry about yesterday .
SHARON: That 's okay .
CATCH: It 's hard to explain , but it 's I 'm okay now .
SHARON: You do n't have to explain . He glances at her , wondering , walking along .
CATCH: So why 'd we meet here ?
SHARON: So you 're the trumpet player who was waking people up on my eat . They walk along in silence a moment .
CATCH: I used to practice late outside . On my roof .
SHARON: On your roof ? That 's why we could n't find you .
CATCH: I did n't know it bothered anybody until you mentioned it . You arresting me ?
SHARON: You can trust me , you know . She takes his hand .
CATCH: What d'you mean ?
SHARON: Like I held you before . Like I did at the accident .
SHARON: What makes it so unspeakable , Catch ? What makes it like that ?
CATCH: This is wrong ! It 's wrong ! Why are you doing this ? !
SHARON: To help you .
CATCH: I do n't need your help ! I do n't need this . We do n't need this we 're fine
SHARON: We 're not . We 're not fine , Catch . Nothing is fine no matter how much you pretend .
SHARON: You pretend that nothing happened . You walk all over the city helping people , but you 're dying inside .
CATCH: I 'm not dying ! I 'm not pretending ! I do n't remember ! I do n't remember any of it . So leave me alone ! What good does it do ? It 's gone ! And I 'm all right this way ! Why do you have to change it ? I 'm all right . She points at the building across the street .
SHARON: Then walk in there . He ca n't even look at the place .
CATCH: Do n't talk about that ! Do n't !
SHARON: All right you talk about it ! You tell me your family died and I say yes , I know , I 'm sorry , and you say , I loved them and I say , what an awful thing to lose a family
CATCH: Damn you , Shar . Damn you why wo n't you stop ? !
SHARON: So you can have a life !
CATCH: I have a life ! We could have a life . We could get up and go to work and come home to each othe and never , never talk about efore . We do n't need to do that ! Why do we need to do that ? !
SHARON: Because it happened ! Because it 's the truth ! I 'm sorry . I 'm so sorry it happened , but
CATCH: Nothing happened ! If we say it , then that 's the truth , that can be the truth . Say it . Nothing happened . Say it , Shar .
SHARON: Catch take my hand . Please .
CATCH: Say it ! I 'm asking you to say it . Her tears come , and she shakes her head .
SHARON: I ca n't .
CATCH: Why not ?
SHARON: Because I want it too much . I want everything with you . I want all of you not just the part that is n't hiding and running away
CATCH: Why are you pushing so hard ? Why does it have to be your way ? Why does it have to be your truth ? This is who I am ! This is the way I am !
SHARON: Not anymore . It does n't have to e this way anymore because you 're not alone because we 're the family now . We can be the family
CATCH: You like to push people , do n't you ? You just have to push and shove and make it right for you for you . You push everybody , Shar . You even pushed your family away , did n't you ?
SHARON: I just want to say
CATCH: You already said it . You said it all .
SHARON: When you 're ready , I 'll be there for you . I just want to say that .
RAY: Rib House after shift today ?
ROBBY: I think I 'll head home .
RAY: Pogo ? Bring your friend .
SHARON: No , I think I 'll turn vegetarian .
RAY: Got ta have that meat to keep you strength up .
SHARON: How come it 's not working for you ?
ROBBY: Pogo ?
SHARON: Which store is it ?
ROBBY: The little market there . They came through a back window last night . Mostly vandalism
SHARON: Whoa
SKATER: Sorry !
WORRIED MOTHER: Oh , God , thank you . Billy !
ROBBY: Pogo ?
SHARON: There 's something I have to do . I need an address and phone .
ROBBY: What 's the name ?
SHARON: Elanora Chu .
ROBBY: Let 's do it . They walk back to the car .
SHARON: I 'm Sharon Pogue . I know all about the
ELANORA: Elanora .
SHARON: I 'm sorry for what happened . I know about the accident .
ELANORA: He told you ? !
SHARON: No . I found out , and I emembered . I was there .
ELANORA: Oh . Yes .
SHARON: I guess he comes here a lot to talk to you .
ELANORA: He shops for me . Twice a week .
SHARON: Oh . And when he comes here he never mentions the past , neve talks about the accident ?
ELANORA: No .
SHARON: And you let him do that ? All this time ? Why ?
ELANORA: It 's what he needs .
SHARON: Walking all over the city like
ELANORA: Like an angel . Yes . Sweet man .
SHARON: But you let him get so lost . Elanora is a bit defensive now .
ELANORA: I let him find his own way through it . Why did you come here , Sharon ?
SHARON: Because I want to know how to help him .
ELANORA: You are helping him .
SHARON: I do n't think so .
ELANORA: Why not ?
SHARON: He he was paying me back , I guess , for the accident , fo helping him . That 's why he felt so close to me . But
ELANORA: Is that what you think ?
SHARON: But now he probably hates me .
ELANORA: What happened ?
SHARON: I took him to the cemetery , and
ELANORA: The cemetery !
SHARON: I thought it might help him come back , you know ? But he would n't even go in . He screamed at me .
ELANORA: What made you take him there ?
SHARON: For the truth
ELANORA: He knows the truth .
SHARON: But he wo n't even say it , or
ELANORA: That 's his way . That 's his way through all this . He made a wall around that whole day , that night other things , too . He keeps them behind the wall his little boy , my daughter . He ca n't help it . The cemetery ? ! Do you know how hard it is for me to go to the cemetery ? Can you imagine ?
SHARON: I was trying to help him come ack to some kind of life . I
ELANORA: But he was coming back . Do you ealize how much he changed in the past weeks ? His apartment , his life , his music is coming back . He fell in love ! He even got a job , Sharon for you . For the two of you . Is n't that coming ack ? Why do you have to rush ? Everybody has to rush these days .
SHARON: I was scared . I push so hard when I 'm scared .
ELANORA: Scared of what ?
SHARON: Losing him . So I did . I lost him . He wo n't talk to me . I I did n't know what I was doing .
ELANORA: You were finding your way . What else can we do ? You think I 'm always sure what to say to him , what not to say ? I do what I think is right and hope he sees the love in it .
SHARON: Did I make it worse for him ?
ELANORA: I do n't know . I really do n't . But I think he 'll see the love in what you did .
SHARON: I just came by to wish you well . To congratulate you and wish you well . Shit .
KATHY: She came . We see Larry grow tense and angry .
CATCH: Annie . Chet . I do n't want you to think I forgot about you . It 's just that I I could n't find you . I woke up , and you were gone . Everything was gone . It all just disappeared . In one minute . I could n't remember that minute . I lost it . It took me so long to find it . I think I found it all now . I used a calculator . I did . I figured it out . You know we get about 1400 minutes a day and so I figured it out . I was 33 years old and three months and eight days , so it was I 've got it here
ANNIE: Slow down in the rain , all right ? We GO TO Catch at the grave , fighting tears .
CATCH: And I do n't know if I slowed down . I do n't know . I hope I did , ut I did n't always listen . I 'm sorry . I 'm really sorry .
CATCH: I wo n't forget anymore . I love you .
PHOTOGRAPHER: All right . The whole family in this one . Just
SHARON: Where do you want me ? The Photographer turns to her , wondering .
PHOTOGRAPHER: Oh ! Oh , well , how about
SHARON: You both look so great .
MOTHER: You , too .
SHARON: I just wanted to
FATHER: You coming to the party ?
SHARON: Sure .
MRS. VANDER: Sherry ! Look how nice you look .
HUSBAND: Big police officer now .
SHARON: Not so big . Nice dress .
LARRY: How did you have the guts to walk into a church after breaking you word ?
SHARON: I have to be here . It 's a chance to make things right , and I 'm taking it .
LARRY: Why even talk go me ? You got what you wanted . You laugh about it ? You tell your cop friends how you
SHARON: You think I talk about it ? ! You think
MOTHER: Do n't make him talk about anything today .
SHARON: Mom , I was going to fix his tie . His tie is crooked . She sighs , pushing through her hurt to say
MOTHER: Yes . We 're running out of chicken , though . Nobody 's eating the ham .
SHARON: It 's a great party , Mom . You look happy .
MOTHER: You think that 's wrong , do n't you ?
SHARON: Of course not
MOTHER: I always I feel like apologizing to you . But I love him .
SHARON: I know .
MOTHER: And then I feel like apologizing to him for loving you . I 'm the one in the middle . I 'm the only one in this family who knows how to forgive anybody .
BOTH: You look great .
KATHY: Tons of makeup . On Larry , too . They smile wryly again .
SHARON: Sorry about that , but I could n't stand him doing that to you . I took it on
KATHY: Do n't worry . I 'm not your mother . If he tries it again , I 'm gone . I 'm out of there , me and Larry Junior . He knows that .
SHARON: What 's up with you ?
LARRY: She drank it .
SHARON: Watch . She 'll fall down any minute .
LARRY: Hey , sport , you should go play outside .
LARRY: Stay away from my family .
SHARON: What 're you doing ?
LARRY: Once the cops leave , we can really party .
SHARON: Do n't walk away . Okay ? He acts as if he just noticed her .
FATHER: What ? She gestures toward his hearing aid .
SHARON: Is it working ? Do you need to check it ? He absently touches the device .
FATHER: It 's fine .
SHARON: Dad
LARRY: What the hell are you doing ? !
MOTHER: Sharon , please .
SHARON: Please ? Please what ? ! Will you stop protecting him ? You were always protecting him ! Do n't talk to your father . Do n't bother you father ! She turns to her dad .
LARRY: Just get the hell out
SHARON: This is n't about you , Larry o you , either , Mom . This is between me and my father , so leave us alone for one goddam minute ! She turns back to her father .
FATHER: Up to you .
SHARON: Dad I 'm asking . Am I welcome here ?
FATHER: Jesus you 're here , are n't you ? What d'you want ?
SHARON: I want to know ! Do you want me here ? Do you love me , Dad ? I want to know .
FATHER: I feel like He ca n't finish it .
SHARON: What , Dad ? You feel like what ?
FATHER: I feel like I do n't have a daughter anymore .
SHARON: Well you do . It 's a shame you 're going to miss knowing her . You 're going to miss all that .
CATCH: Sorry , Shar . For what I said .
SHARON: Me , too .
CATCH: Was it bad ?
SHARON: They do n't like me in there .
CATCH: Then they do n't deserve you in there . She stares a moment more , still together .
SHARON: That 's a nice thing to say .
CATCH: It 's not a thing to say . It 's the truth . She can only look away , not wanting to cry .
SHARON: It 's not fair .
CATCH: No .
SHARON: It 's not fair . I was 19 , and I did n't know what else to do . I did n't know how else to stop it . It 's not fair I do n't have a family anymore .
CATCH: No . It 's not , Shar . It 's not .
REPORTER: the Ring of the Fisherman , which ears the official papal seal and by Vatican law must be destroyed immediately following the Pope 's death .
VITTORIA: Somebody pulled us off the grid , Phillipe .
PHILLIPE: You hit 36kV down there yesterday . The whole synchrotron only loads 18 .
VITTORIA: And the LEAR 's specked up to 42 . It 's all approved by the Director , you want me to call him ?
PHILLIPE: Waste of power , what 're you extracting , still ten to the seventh APs a second ? How long to produce a gram at that rate ?
VITTORIA: About two billion years . At that ate .
PHILLIPE: Vittoria . ( switching to soft
ITALIAN: Please do n't blow us all to heaven .
REPORTER: - the Pope 's elegy Mass , led by Cardinal Saverio Mortati , Dean of the College of Cardinals -
VITTORIA: Power should be back five by five .
LEONARDO: It is , extraction 's already started .
VINCENZO: Professor Langdon ?
LANGDON: Swim might help your jet lag .
VINCENZO: I beg your pardon ?
GESTURING: Bags under your eyes , up at five a.m. , Italian accent Do I hear Naples in those Rs ?
VINCENZO: Claudio Vincenzo , Corpo della Gendarmeria Vaticano .
LANGDON: Vatican Police ? I was expecting another letter . My request for access to the Archives ?
VINCENZO: In fact I was in New York , on vacation . I got a call in the middle of the night - find Robert Langdon . A matter of great urgency .
LANGDON: Urgent Vatican business , involving me ? I doubt that .
VINCENZO: They said to show you this .
LANGDON: llluminati ?
VINCENZO: Yes , of course , but it could n't be the llluminati as we knew them , they disappeared a hundred years ago .
LANGDON: Did they ? Look at the paper .
VINCENZO: I 've seen it .
LANGDON: Look again .
REALIZING: Which is why you 're here , is n't it ?
VINCENZO: `` The Art of the llluminati , '' by Robert Langdon .
LANGDON: Incredible . Either someone just figured out how to make this , or they found it . Recently . Which would mean the llluminati have returned . An ancient brotherhood , enemies of the church , surfacing just after the death of a Pope ? I 'd pull you off vacation too .
VINCENZO: It 's worse than just that . Fou cardinals were kidnapped from thei quarters inside the Vatican some time etween three and five a.m. this morning . Shortly afterward , the Office of the Swiss Guard received that document , along with the threat that the Cardinals will be publicly executed , one per hour , starting at seven p.m. tonight , in Rome .
LANGDON: Conclave ?
VINCENZO: Was to begin today . We have postponed its start for a few hours , a story of illness , there are no suspicions . Yet .
LANGDON: What do you want from me ?
VINCENZO: The perpetrators of this heinous act sent that ambigram , you say ? as a provocation , a taunt . But it may also be their undoing . If you can help us learn their identity , perhaps we can stop them .
LANGDON: Why me ?
VINCENZO: Your expertise . Your erudition . And your involvement with recent Church shall we say `` mysteries ? ''
LANGDON: I was n't under the impression that episode had endeared me to the Vatican .
VINCENZO: Oh , it did n't . But it made you what is the word ? Formidable . Formidable . A plane is standing by twenty minutes from here . Will you come with me ?
LANGDON: Spoken like a Roman Catholic .
MORTATI: And ?
FR. SIMEON: Commandante Rocher assures me the Guard is doing everything humanly possible to find the prefiriti .
MORTATI: A very long way for him to say very little .
FR. SIMEON: What if you were to begin in thei absence ?
MORTATI: They are the four leading candidates . If they 're not present , they 're not eligible . There will be no consensus without them , wid are we to vote for ?
FR. SIMEON: ( chastened , but not
REALLY: The Camerlengo asks how long you can postpone the opening prayer without making another announcement to the public ?
MORTATI: Two years and three months . The conclave of 1316 ?
FR. SIMEON: He 's be concerned about the public dimension . People will think-
MORTATI: What we tell them to think .
OLIVETTI: Professor Langdon , welcome to Vatican City . Ernesto Olivetti , Inspecto Generale of the Vatican Police Force .
LANGDON: I assumed you were Swiss Guard .
OLIVETTI: No . The Gendarmerie is responsible for everything inside the Vatican walls , with the exception of the security of His Holiness and the Apostolic Palace . That is Swiss Guard . The Commandante Generale of the Roman Carbinieri has joined us as well , in an advisory capacity , and the Guarda Nacionale have sent a epresentative .
LANGDON: So jurisdictionally , this is-
OLIVETTI: A God damn nightmare .
LANGDON: The Great Castration .
OLIVETTI: I beg your pardon ?
LANGDON: 1857 . Pius IX felt the male form might inspire lust , so he got a hammer and chisel and unmanned two hundred statues . These plaster fig leaves were added later .
OLIVETTI: Are you anti-Catholic , Professo Langdon ?
LANGDON: Me ? No , I 'm anti-vandalism .
OLIVETTI: I urge you to guard your tone in there . The Swiss Guard is a calling , not a profession , and it encourages a certain zealotry . Commander Rocher , the head of the Guard , is a deeply spiritual man , and he was close to the late Pope . Understood ?
LANGDON: I just hope I can help .
OLIVETTI: So do I . You were my idea .
ROCHER: Ms. Vetra ? I 'm Commander Rocher , Commandante Principale of the Swiss Guard . Thank you for coming . And Professor Langdon ?
LANGDON: That 's right . Rocher looks him up and down , so , you 're Langdon .
ROCHER: Thank God , the symbologist is here . Ms. Vetra , this way , please .
OLIVETTI: There 's been a development . We eceived another threat from the kidnapper .
CONTINUING: canister was stolen from our la around midnight last night . The intruder killed my research partner , Leonardo Bentivoglio , and mutilated him in order to bypass security .
ROCHER: I 'm quite familiar with incendiaries , Ms. Vetra . I have n't heard of antimatter .
VITTORIA: It 's new , energy research technology . It uses a reverse polarity vacuum to filter out anti-matter positrons generated in particle accelerations in the Large Hadron Collider at CERN .
ROCHER: And what might cause it to fall out of suspension ?
VITTORIA: The battery going dead . Which it will . In six hours and eleven minutes .
OLIVETTI: It 's wireless . It too was stolen . That could be anywhere inside the Vatican walls .
VITTORIA: You 've got to find it .
ROCHER: We 're a bit preoccupied with fou missing cardinals at the moment .
VITTORIA: You do n't understand . An annihilation is a cataclysmic event . It would be a blinding explosion , equivalent to about five megatons . The blast radius alone would be
LANGDON: `` Vatican City will be consumed by light . ''
ROCHER: Those are the exact words the kidnapper used .
LANGDON: It 's an ancient llluminati threat . The destruction of Vatican City through light . The four pillars he probably means the kidnapped cardinals . You did n't mention they were the preferiti . The favorites to be chosen as the new Pope . Play it again .
ROCHER: He said they 'd be killed publicly . In churches .
LANGDON: Revenge for La Purga .
ROCHER: La Purga ?
LANGDON: Do n't you guys read your own history ? 1668 . The church kidnapped fou llluminati scientists and branded their chests with the symbol of the cross . To `` purge their sins . '' Murdered them and left their bodies in the street as a warning to others to stop questioning church rulings on scientific matters . It was after La Purga that a darker , more violent llluminati emerged . This sounds like retribution . Is there any more ?
OLIVETTI: Professor , this is not the appropriate moment to-
ROCHER: Your petition has been denied seven times , Mr. Langdon .
LANGDON: This has nothing to do with that ,
FAST: The Path of Illumination is an ancient trail through Rome that leads to the Church of the Illumination , a secret place where llluminati members could meet in safety . If I can find the Segno , the sign that marks the start of the Path , I 'm willing to bet the four churches along it are where he intends to murder your cardinals . If we can get to one of them before he does , we can stop it . But to find the start of the path , I need to get into the Archives .
ROCHER: Even if I wanted to help you , access is only by written decree of the curator and the Board of Vatican Librarians .
LANGDON: Or by papal mandate .
ROCHER: Yes . But as you 've no doubt heard , the Holy Father is-
LANGDON: What about Il Camerlengo ? Let me talk to him .
ROCHER: The Camerlengo ? He 's just a priest here , the former Pope 's Chamberlain .
LANGDON: Does n't the power of the Holy See rest with him during tempe sede vacante ?
CAMERLENGO: His Holiness once told me that a Pope is a man torn between two worlds the real world and the divine .
ROCHER: Of course , but it could be anywhere , and the safety of the cardinals is my primary concern at the moment .
CAMERLENGO: The Sistine Chapel is a fortress , as long as the cardinals are in conclave , your security concerns are at a minimum . Devote as much of you esources as possible to a search for-
ROCHER: Signore , if you 're about to suggest we make a naked-eye search of all of Vatican City , I must-
CAMERLENGO: Commander . Though I am not His Holiness , when you address me , you are addressing this office . Do you understand ?
ROCHER: Yes , Padre ,
CAMERLENGO: Good . Now you said the image on screen was illuminated by artificial light . May I suggest methodically cutting the power to various sections of the City . When the image on you screen goes dark , you 'll have a more specific idea of the device 's location .
VITTORIA: Only the director of CERN . But Leonardo kept detailed journals ; if he told anyone else about what we were doing , he would have made a note of it .
CAMERLENGO: Do you have these journals ?
VITTORIA: I can have them flown here from Geneva in an hour .
CAMERLENGO: Mr. Langdon . You 're correct that I may grant you access to the Archives .
LANGDON: Thank you , Padre .
CAMERLENGO: I said you 're correct that I may , not that I will . Christianity 's most sacred codices are in that archive . Given your recent entanglement with the church I need to ask you a question first .
DELICATELY: Father , I simply believe that eligions can often-
CAMERLENGO: I did n't ask if you believe what man says about God , I asked if you believe in God .
LANGDON: I 'm an academic . My mind tells me I will never understand God .
CAMERLENGO: And your heart ?
LANGDON: Tells me I 'm not meant to .
CAMERLENGO: Be delicate with our treasures .
OLIVETTI: The archives are this way .
LANGDON: `` A shining star at the end of the Path . '' My thoughts exactly .
OLIVETTI: If we find this bomb , can you deactivate it ?
VITTORIA: No , but I can change its battery , as long as it has more than five minutes of life . That would give us anothe twenty-four hours to get it back to
LANGDON: Both . You 're a physicist ?
VITTORIA: Bio-entanglement physics . Interconnectivity of life systems .
LANGDON: Okay .
VITTORIA: What are we looking for in the archives ?
LANGDON: A little book written by Galileo .
VITTORIA: Galileo was llluminati ?
LANGDON: And a devout Catholic . He thought science and religion were n't enemies , ut two different languages telling the same story . He wanted like minds to be able to find the Church of Illumination , but he could n't exactly advertise its location , so he created a coded path . An unknown llluminati master sculpted four statues , each a tribute to one of the four fundamental elements earth , air , fire , water and put them out in public , in churches throughout Rome . Each statue held a clue , pointing to the next . And at the end of the trail was the Church of Illumination .
OLIVETTI: What makes you think he 's going to murder the cardinals in the churches ?
LANGDON: The llluminati called those fou churches by a special name L'Altare di scienza . The altars of science .
VITTORIA: ( making the
CONNECTION: `` Sacrifice them on the altars of science , '' he said .
LANGDON: Oh . Oh , wow .
OLIVETTI: Vatican Police are n't allowed access to the archives , only Swiss Guard . Lt. Chartrand will meet you inside . I 'll e here when you 're done .
CAMERLENGO: You 've been informed of the new situation ?
MORTATI: May God 's mercy be upon us .
CAMERLENGO: And the other cardinals ?
MORTATI: Await your word .
CAMERLENGO: May I ask your guidance , Padre ?
MORTATI: My belief is we should proceed with the sealing of conclave .
CAMERLENGO: At this hour ? That would be highly unorthodox .
MORTATI: And yet within church law . It 's in my power , I 've been chosen Great Elector .
CAMERLENGO: The cruelest honor in Christendom .
MORTATI: The only ambitions I have are for my church . St. Peter 's church , which is under attack at its most vulnerable moment . This is not a coincidence . Is it possible our enemies hope to distract us from our sacred task ?
CAMERLENGO: The church will not fall in a day . We may be wise to consider evacuation .
MORTATI: That is exactly what they want , publicity and panic . We must not give them oxygen for the media fire .
CAMERLENGO: What of the safety of the cardinals ?
MORTATI: Surely there is not an elector present who values his physical being more than the unbroken leadership of the Holy See .
CAMERLENGO: And the people in St. Peter 's Square ?
MORTATI: They care as deeply about their church as we do . Their faith will sustain them .
CAMERLENGO: But if their faith does not protect them from an explosion ?
MORTATI: We 're all bound for heaven eventually , are we not ?
CAMERLENGO: Spoken like one who has enjoyed the lessings of a long and full life .
MORTATI: Signore , do not confuse the power of the office you temporarily hold with your true place here in the Vatican . You were a favorite of His Holiness , ut His Holiness is with his Fathe now .
CAMERLENGO: Mea culpa .
MORTATI: Seal the doors .
CHARTRAND: The chambers are hermetic vaults , oxygen is kept at lowest possible levels . It 's a partial vacuum inside . More than ten minutes in the vault is not recommended without eathing apparatus .
LANGDON: Take a moment . If you feel double vision , double over .
VITTORIA: Feels like I 'm scuba diving with the wrong mixture .
LANGDON: Plenty of time .
MR. GRAY: You have no idea what you 're missing .
LAMASSE: Conclave will go on without us . The voice of God will not be silenced .
MR. GRAY: I was referring to my tea . Last chance , I 'd be happy to make you a cup .
LAMASSE: May God forgive you for what you 've done .
MR. GRAY: Father , if God has issues they wo n't e with what I 've done but with what I 'm about to do .
LANGDON: confiscated from the Netherlands by the Vatican shortly after Galileo 's death . I 've been petitioning to see it for almost ten years . Ever since I realized what was in it .
VITTORIA: What makes you so sure the Segno is there ?
LANGDON: The number 503 . I kept seeing it ove and over in llluminati letters , scribbled in the margins , or sometimes just signed that way , `` 503 . '' It 's a numerical clue , but to what ? Five , of course , is the sacred llluminati number the pentagram , Pythagoras , a dozen othe examples in science but why three ?
VITTORIA: D-I-I-I ?
LANGDON: D3 . Galileo 's third text . Dialogo . Discorsi .
VITTORIA: I know about Dialogo and Discorsi Galileo laid out his theories about the earth revolving around the sun , and the church forced him to recant . But what was this ?
LANGDON: This is where he got the word out . The truth , not what the Vatican forced him to write . Smuggled out of Rome and printed in Holland on sedge papyrus . That way any scientists caught with a copy could simply drop it in water and the booklet would dissolve .
VITTORIA: A bit .
LANGDON: Finger acids .
VITTORIA: Movement of the planets elliptical orbits heliocentricity
LANGDON: Do that again .
VITTORIA: English ? Why English ?
LANGDON: No one spoke it at the Vatican . It was considered polluted . Too free- thinking , the language of radicals like Shakespeare and Chaucer .
VITTORIA: Sorry , Professor . No time .
LANGDON: Ah , what the hell .
OLIVETTI: Twenty minutes till eight , where are we headed ?
LANGDON: I 'll know in a minute , give me the paper .
READING: From Santi 's earthly tomb with demon 's hole
OLIVETTI: Where did you get that paper ? !
LANGDON: 'Cross Rome the mystic elements unfold .
VITTORIA: We borrowed it .
LANGDON: The path of light is laid , the sacred test
OLIVETTI: Are you insane ? !
LANGDON: Let angels guide you on your earthly quest .
OLIVETTI: You removed a document from the Vatican Archives ? !
LANGDON: Huh ? Oh , um well , she moved so fast. .
VITTORIA: The first marker sounds like it 's at Santi 's tomb .
LANGDON: Sounds like .
VITTORIA: But who is Santi ?
LANGDON: Raphael .
VITTORIA: Raphael ? The sculptor ?
LANGDON: Santi was his last name .
VITTORIA: So the path starts at Raphael 's tomb !
LANGDON: ( not entirely
CONVINCED: Yeah .
OLIVETTI: Raphael is buried at the Pantheon .
VITTORIA: Is the Pantheon even a church ?
OLIVETTI: ( snatching up the
RADIO: Oldest Catholic church in Rome !
ROCHER: I 've just pulled a dozen of my best men from Vatican City during conclave and left the search for the antimatte device in the hands of secondary officers . You 'd better be right .
LANGDON: I believe I am .
ROCHER: The Pantheon is one of the busiest tourist spots in Rome , how could he hope to get away with it ? It 's impossible .
LANGDON: As impossible as kidnapping fou cardinals from Vatican City ? The poem is precise .
ROCHER: The poem . Unbelievable . I 'm asing this operation on an American 's interpretation of a four hundred yea old poem .
VITTORIA: The information we have clearly refers to Raphael 's tomb , and Raphael 's tom is inside that building .
LANGDON: The Pantheon is your one chance to catch this guy .
ROCHER: One ? I thought you said four . A pathway , four markers . We 'll have four chances to catch him .
LANGDON: You would have , a hundred years ago . The Vatican had all the pagan statues in the Pantheon removed and destroyed in the late 1800s . Whatever marke was there to lead us to the next church is gone now . The path is dead . This is your chance .
ROCHER: Separate approaches . Cars to Piazza della Rotunda , Via degli Orfani , Piazza Sant'Ignazio , and Sant1Eustachio . No closer than two locks , no uniforms , three minutes . Understood ?
VITTORIA: Wait a minute , you 'll scare him off .
ROCHER: They 're not in uniform .
VITTORIA: I 'm sorry , two weightlifters in matching black suits and earpieces , they 're hardly disguised .
ROCHER: There 's no time to get undercover men here .
VITTORIA: Fine . I 'll go .
ROCHER: I 'm not sending a wom-
VITTORIA: Tourists have cell phones , do n't they ? Hi honey , I 'm at the Pantheon , you should see this place !
LANGDON: You ca n't send her in there alone .
ROCHER: I do n't intend to .
VITTORIA: You 're crushing my hand .
LANGDON: I 'm sorry .
VITTORIA: A nervous newlywed ?
LANGDON: Ancient newlywed .
VITTORIA: Try harder .
LANGDON: You really know how to use that gun gave you ?
VITTORIA: I can tag a breaching porpoise from forty meters off the bow of a rocking ship .
LANGDON: Thought you said you were a physicist ,
VITTORIA: I am . Long story .
LANGDON: Make it short .
VITTORIA: Ca n't be done . What time is it ?
LANGDON: Seven minutes to eight .
VITTORIA: Was that Mickey Mouse ?
LANGDON: Long story .
VITTORIA: Make it short .
LANGDON: Ca n't be done .
VITTORIA: Why are the tombs at an angle ?
LANGDON: To face east . Sun worship .
VITTORIA: But this is a Christian church .
LANGDON: New religions often adopt existing holidays to make conversion less shocking . December 25th was the pagan holiday of the Unconquered Sun . Made it a handy choice for Christ 's irthday .
VITTORIA: You 're saying Christianity is epackaged sun worship ?
LANGDON: Where do you think halos came from ? Not just sun worship though , the Catholics borrowed Communion from the Aztecs , canonization from Euphemerus , the cruciform from the Egyptians -
VITTORIA: No wonder they do n't like you around here .
LANGDON: Just trying to keep the conversation lively .
VITTORIA: Raphael 's tomb ! But
LANGDON: What are you talking about ? !
VITTORIA: He was moved here , in 1759 . A century after Diagramma was published !
LANGDON: That 's not possible , the poem said-
VITTORIA: Where was he originally buried ?
LANGDON: I do n't know Urbino , I think Santi 's earthly tomb what else could it possibly Santi 's tomb
DOCENT: Does anyone have any questions ?
LANGDON: Yes ! Did Raphael Santi ever design a chapel with an ossuary annex and angel figure commissioned by the Catholic Church ? !
DOCENT: I 'm sorry , I I can only think of one .
LANGDON: One 'll do .
ROCHER: Wrong ? What do you mean , wrong ? !
LANGDON: The first altar of science is the Chigi Chapel , in the church of Santa Maria del Popolo , about a mile from here ! It used to be called Capella della Terra , Chapel of the Earth . Earth , the first element ! This is it , I 'm certain .
ROCHER: You were certain of the Pantheon .
LANGDON: Please , we have four minutes !
VITTORIA: Back to the Vatican ? ! You ca n't !
LANGDON: Commandante , if you care at all about your church-
ROCHER: My church ? My church feeds the hungry , comforts the sick and dying . What does your church do , Professor ? Ah , that 's right , you have n't one .
LANGDON: This is the place .
VITTORIA: The Freemasons ? Are Illuminati ?
LANGDON: The Illuminati were infiltrators . There is n't a powerful organization on earth they did n't place members in . Look at a dollar bill some time . A pyramid , an occult symbol representing convergence upward , with the eye of illumination above it , and beneath it the Latin for `` New World Order . ''
VITTORIA: The United States government was infiltrated by Illuminati ?
LANGDON: FDR 's vice-president was a high- anking Freemason . Convinced him the words in Latin actually meant `` New Deal . ''
OLIVETTI: Eight o'clock !
APPROACHING: No , no , it 's an annulus !
WHISPERING: The chapel is in one of those apses .
LANGDON: Pyramids . In a Catholic church . This is it .
LANGDON: Anybody got a flashlight ?
OLIVETTI: Can you tell what it is ?
LANGDON: Not from up here .
OLIVETTI: You okay ?
LANGDON: More or less .
SUBTITLED: I call as my witness Christ the Lord , who will be my judge that my vote is given to the one who before God I think should be elected .
MORTATI: Eligo in summum pontificem
ROCHER: Get that body out of there and search the rest of the building .
LANGDON: Earthly symbology everywhere
ROCHER: Why the hell did n't you figure this out in the first place ?
LANGDON: I made a mistake .
VITTORIA: Is it Raphael ?
LANGDON: The chapel is . But the sculptures are Bernini .
STUNNED: The unknown Illuminati master was Bernini .
VITTORIA: Did n't he work for the Church ?
LANGDON: Almost exclusively . It means the Illuminati even infiltrated the Vatican . They hid in plain sight .
VITTORIA: Habakkuk ?
LANGDON: The prophet who predicted the annihilation of the earth . This is the first marker .
ROCHER: You 're sure this time ?
LANGDON: I need a map . One that shows all the churches in Rome .
ROCHER: Your theory does n't hold up , Professor . Michelangelo designed St. Peter 's , not Bernini .
LANGDON: The Basilica is Michelangelo , but the square is Bernini . The second marker must be a statue in the square .
VITTORIA: It 's ten minutes till nine ! Can we go any faster ? !
ROCHER: Not unless we want the full attention of the world press .
LANGDON: Another obelisk . We 're close .
VITTORIA: There must be a hundred statues up there , which one is it ?
LANGDON: How in God 's name would anyone make a sculpture about air ?
VITTORIA: He 's still alive !
ROCHER: Clear the square .
CAMERLENGO: When did this call come in ?
OLIVETTI: Three , four minutes ago . The same voice as on the tape . We 're analyzing the accent now , Alsatian is our best guess at the moment .
CAMERLENGO: And he actually claimed responsibility for the death of His Holiness ?
OLIVETTI: Not personally , but he said it was the Illuminati . He said they murdered him .
CAMERLENGO: That 's ridiculous , the Holy Fathe died of a stroke . Did he say how they claim to have done it ?
OLIVETTI: The Pope 's own medication . A drug known as Heparin ?
VITTORIA: The Pope took Heparin ?
CAMERLENGO: He had thrombophlebitis . He took an injection once a day . But no one knew that .
OLIVETTI: Someone knew .
ROCHER: His Holiness had health concerns ; he was subject to seizures as well . But he took steps to make sure he was watched . For safety . That 's all he wished to be made public , and that 's all we should discuss .
VITTORIA: Heparin is lethal in the wrong dosage . An overdose would cause massive internal bleeding and brain hemorrhages . At first it might look like a stroke , but in a few days his ody would show signs , we could easily-
ROCHER: Ms. Vetra , in case you 're unaware , papal autopsies are prohibited by Vatican Law . We are not about to defile His Holiness 's body just ecause his enemies claim to-
CAMERLENGO: Of course we 're not . We 'll make a public announcement refuting this absurd claim .
FR. SIMEON: I 'm afraid that 's out of the question . Cardinal Mortati has insisted this entire matter be kept internal .
CAMERLENGO: Cardinal Mortati should n't even be aware of this , he 's locked in conclave .
FR. SIMEON: His final instructions before sealing the doors were very clear no outside communications unless absolutely necessary .
CAMERLENGO: Cardinal Mortati will remember that he is Dean of the College of Cardinals , not His Holiness himself .
FR. SIMEON: As you say . Yet , technically , now that Conclave has begun , it is his privilege and duty to control public announcements . I 've drafted a short elease about the incident in the square , but any other statements are specifically prohibited . For that , the Cardinal has asked me to remind you we have a chimney .
CAMERLENGO: As you say . Commander Rocher , the search for the device ?
ROCHER: We 've turned the power off and on to about twenty percent of Vatican City . Nothing on the video yet .
CAMERLENGO: Mr. Langdon , you 've been right so far , if belatedly , about the Path . It 's now nine fifteen , how quickly can you find the next church ?
LANGDON: The line of the breath in the carving points due east , directly away from Vatican City , but there are five lines , so there 's room for error .
CAMERLENGO: Escort him .
VITTORIA: The journals I asked for . I 'd like to stay here and study them . If Leonardo told anyone else about ou project , that could be the killer .
CAMERLENGO: Fine .
LANGDON: It would surprise the hell out of me .
SUBTITLED: a statement just released by the Vatican expressing sympathy for the family of the mugging victim , a tourist from Dusseldorf
SUBTITLED: - who is now confirmed dead . Vatican Police have a suspect in custody , and after photographing the crime scene -
SUBTITLED: - will allow the crowds of faithful ack into St. Peter 's Square , where security will be doubled .
BBC REPORTER: Sadly , the Vatican spokesman points out , where crowds go
AMERICAN REPORTER: - so often follows crime . We 're trying now to get the name of the tourist who was- wait a-
CHARTRAND: What are you looking for this time ?
LANGDON: Assets .
CHARTRAND: I beg your pardon ?
LANGDON: Artwork is valuable , and corporations tend to keep track of their holdings .
CHARTRAND: The Catholic Church is not a corporation , Signore , it is a beacon , a source of inspiration for one illion lost and frightened souls .
LANGDON: Sure sure , I get that .
CHARTRAND: Cfmmander Olivetti said I was not to leave your side this time .
LANGDON: Was n't me , it was her ,
CAMERLENGO: What sort of signs ?
VITTORIA: I 'm sorry ?
CAMERLENGO: If the Holy Father were given an overdose of Heparin what signs would his body bear ?
VITTORIA: Bleeding of the oral mucosa . His gums . Postmortem , the blood congeals and turns the inside of the mouth black .
CAMERLENGO: Even though he died fourteen days ago ?
VITTORIA: It would n't show up until at least a week after his death .
CAMERLENGO: He was very important to me .
VITTORIA: I understand .
CAMERLENGO: Please come .
LANGDON: You do n't smoke , do you ?
CHARTRAND: A little bit .
LANGDON: Sit down before you fall down .
CHARTRAND: `` Moved at suggestion of the artist . ''
LANGDON: Moved to another church ? At Bernini '' s suggestion ?
CHARTRAND: I do n't know .
LANGDON: Fire .
CHARTRAND: Electronic .
LANGDON: That 's too bad .
VITTORIA: Where are we going ?
CAMERLENGO: To see my father .
VITTORIA: I do n't understand .
CAMERLENGO: I was orphaned when I was nine years old . A bombing in Madrid Basque separatists protesting the visit of a Catholic archbishop .
VITTORIA: He died ?
CAMERLENGO: Fourteen days ago .
LANGDON: Anything ?
CHARTRAND: Walls lead-lined no signal .
CAMERLENGO: If the Holy Father was murdered , the implications are profound . Vatican security is impenetrable , no one from the outside could have gotten anywhere near him .
VITTORIA: Meaning it was someone on the inside .
CAMERLENGO: We can trust no one
SWISS GUARDSMAN: Signore , by law we are at you command . But we are also bound by-
CAMERLENGO: I ask your forgiveness for putting you in this position . Vatican laws are established to protect the church . But it is in that very spirit that I command you to break them now .
LANGDON: Are you out of your minds ? !
OLIVETTI: Please . In the car .
LANGDON: Someone tried to kill me .
OLIVETTI: Do you know where the next church is ?
LANGDON: Yes .
OLIVETTI: Then get in the car !
LANGDON: You heard me ask permission ! You assigned me an escort ! Do n't try to tell me you did n't know I was in there !
OLIVETTI: Of course I knew , but we had no idea that portions of our white zones are
LANGDON: Or there is the other possibility .
OLIVETTI: Perhaps .
LANGDON: I want to speak to the Camerlengo .
OLIVETTI: Il Camerlengo is unavailable ,
LANGDON: Unavailable ? Why ?
OLIVETTI: He 's found evidence that the Holy Father was indeed murdered . He is seeking guidance .
LANGDON: From whom ?
OLIVETTI: From God .
LANGDON: Oh , right .
OLIVETTI: Please . Make an effort .
VITTORIA: The journals . Where are they ?
CAMERLENGO: Unseal the doors .
MORTATI: Signore , do you realize that for the first time in Vatican history , a Camerlengo has just crossed the sacred threshold of conclave after sealing the doors ?
CAMERLENGO: There has been a development .
LANGDON: Oh no .
CAMERLENGO: Since the days of Galileo , the church has tried to slow the relentless march of science , sometimes with misguided means , but always with benevolent intention . Still , they call us ackward , ignorant .
LANGDON: The cleat , on the wall ! Get something to stand on !
MR. GRAY: Gendarmeria Vaticano !
MORTATI: My son God answers all prayers .
CAMERLENGO: We ca n't hide this anymore . The urning church
MORTATI: A despicable act of terrorism . Father Simeon will make a suitable announcement lamenting the loss of life . May I suggest you direct your energies to helping the Swiss Guard confront the possibility of this explosive device , and leave church leadership
FR. SIMEON: Eminence . There is a growing fea that without the four prefiriti , a two- thirds majority for any candidate may e impossible . Unless
MORTATI: Speak plainly .
FR. SIMEON: It is the recommendation of many that you ask to be removed from your post as Great Elector
MORTATI: If it is God 's will , may His will be
ROCHER: ( no attempt at a
DENIAL: They are material evidence in a Vatican investigation .
VITTORIA: I am an Italian citizen and I have a ight to-
ROCHER: This is n't Italy . It is n't even Rome . The Vatican is its own country , with its own laws , and when those journals crossed our border they ecame our property . You will get them back when I have decided they contain nothing of value to this investigation .
VITTORIA: Do you have something to hide , Commandante Rocher ?
ROCHER: Do you , Doctor Vetra ?
LANGDON: Let angels guide you on your lofty quest
ROMAN COP: Langdon , is it ?
LANGDON: What direction is that ?
ROMAN COP: Direction ? West , I think . Mr. Langdon , we 've confirmed with the Vatican that they invited you into this investigation , but what I-
LANGDON: Map .
ROMAN COP: Professor , I need to know what you saw here .
LANGDON: Fire and death . Show me where Santa Maria del Popolo is . ( the Cop does n't
UNDERSTAND: The Church , it was the first altar of science .
ROMAN COP: Professor , I am asked to escort you to the Vatican immediately . Commande Rocher has asked to see you .
LANGDON: Water .
MR. GRAY: Were it up to me , it would not be this way . It is a sin to kill with pain .
SIGHS: But I am a sinner .
ROMAN COP: Professor ! The Vatican insists that-
LANGDON: The Vatican is about to see its fourth Cardinal murdered tonight .
ASIAN REPORTER: resulting in at least six confirmed deaths
BRAZILIAN REPORTER: initial rumors that one of the dead was Cardinal Ebner of Frankfurt
AMERICAN REPORTER: been refuted by the Vatican , which has asked international media not to engage in , quote , `` wild speculation ''
FRENCH REPORTER: as conclave goes on , with no sign of agreement on a new pope yet .
CAMERLENGO: At 11 15 , if the church is still in peril , give the order to evacuate the cardinals . But with dignity , let them exit into St. Peter 's Square , with their heads held high . I do n't want the last image of this church to e frightened old men sneaking out a ack door . If Cardinal Mortati protests , escort him bodily . Do you understand ?
SWISS GUARDSMAN: If you think it is the right thing , Signore .
CAMERLENGO: I 'm certain it 's the wrong thing , and I will be removed from my post for it . But I also know we have no choice .
LANGDON: Let angels guide you
ROMAN COP: Not anymore .
LANGDON: The marker 's no good without an angel , pointing to the final-
ROMAN COP: Blame Mussolini . He wanted it fo his summer-
MR. GRAY: Si ?
SECOND COP: Per favore ?
MR. GRAY: Non posso .
LANGDON: Cardinale Guidera ?
CARDINAL GU: Sisi
LANGDON: The Church of Illumination . It 's where you were being held , is n't it ?
CARDINAL GUIDERA: Castel Sant'Angelo
CHARTRAND: Langdon says Cardinal Guidera will be killed in Piazza Navona . He 's on his way there with two Carbinieri .
ROCHER: Send everyone we can spare .
CHARTRAND: You ?
ROCHER: Staying here to continue the search for the explosive .
LANGDON: You 're all right ?
VITTORIA: I 'm all right , what about you ? !
LANGDON: Cold and wet but alive . Where 's Rocher ?
VITTORIA: I do n't know . He took the journals , he 's hiding something .
LANGDON: This is it . The Church of Illumination is somewhere in the castle .
VITTORIA: Back to search the outer castle .
LANGDON: No no , it has to be here !
VITTORIA: Robert , it 's a dead end .
LANGDON: Bring a flashlight .
VITTORIA: You told me to give it back .
LANGDON: Ignore me any time you like .
WHISPERS: Leads to the Vatican . Or from it . An ancient escape route .
VITTORIA: An angel .
ROCHER: Get on the radio and put the word out . Conclave is to remain sealed .
SWISS GUARDSMAN: But the Camerlengo gave the order fo evacuation at eleven fif-
ROCHER: I 'm countermanding it .
SWISS GUARDSMAN: BUT-
ROCHER: That door stays SHUT ! Do you understand ?
SWISS GUARDSMAN: Yes sir .
VITTORIA: We have thirty minutes left , I can still change the battery if we can find the cannister .
LANGDON: There 's a fifth brand .
VITTORIA: What ?
LANGDON: Two crossed keys .
VITTORIA: The symbol for the Vatican ?
LANGDON: The papacy .
THINKING: They 're going to kill him . Before they blow up the Vatican they 're going to kill and brand the pope himself .
VITTORIA: But there is no pope .
LANGDON: Technically , there is .
VITTORIA: The Camerlengo ? ! We have to-
LANGDON: You could have been long gone by now .
MR. GRAY: Some do God 's work for love , others for money . Which do you take me for ?
LANGDON: Neither are you . I was expecting a fanatic .
MR. GRAY: When they call me and they all call me it is so important to them that I know what they ask is the Lord 's will . Or Allah 's , o Yahweh 's . And I suppose they 're ight . Because if He were not vengeful , I would not exist , would
LANGDON: Why did n't you kill us when you had the chance
MR. GRAY: Because no one asked me to .
LANGDON: We 've got to get to the Vatican .
SWISS GUARDSMAN: The Camerlengo says he will grant you an audience .
ROCHER: I 'd like to see him alone .
SWISS GUARDSMAN: That 's impossible , sir . No one-
ROCHER: Have you forgotten who you work for ? !
SWISS GUARDSMAN: No , sir .
CAMERLENGO: Have you come to make me a martyr ?
VITTORIA: Men of God .
LANGDON: We 're under St. Peter 's Square .
FR. SIMEON: I demand to speak to the Camerlengo .
LANGDON: Senza chiave ! A one-way portal , the only access is from the other side !
CAMERLENGO: ILLUMINATUS !
FR. SIMEON: You bastard ! You sanctimonious-
ROCHER: For safety .
CHARTRAND: I need a Medevac to St. Peter 's Square , right now !
CAMERLENGO: Order the evacuation . We only have nineteen minutes .
LANGDON: The keys . They 're upside down .
VITTORIA: You think it 's a sign ?
LANGDON: Everything has been a sign , why should this be any different ?
CAMERLENGO: St. Peter .
LANGDON: The first pope , he was crucified upside-down , on Vatican Hill . Right eneath where we 're standing .
CAMERLENGO: `` Upon this rock I will build my church . ''
LANGDON: Or bring it down upon itself .
CAMERLENGO: Upon this rock I will build my church .
LANGDON: St. Peter 's tomb is the very core of Christendom .
CAMERLENGO: The bomb is in St. Peter 's tomb !
LANGDON: The ultimate infiltration .
VITTORIA: I can still change the battery if we hurry !
CHARTRAND: The grid is still cycling the powe to this section must be down .
CAMERLENGO: Oil lamps . Grab one !
VITTORIA: What 's down here ?
LANGDON: The Necropolis . City of the dead .
CAMERLENGO: It must be here ! It must be !
VITTORIA: Set it down flat .
LANGDON: What 's wrong ?
VITTORIA: Heat decreases battery life . We may have less than five minutes .
CAMERLENGO: So ?
VITTORIA: If I pull the power with less than five minutes , the residual charge wo n't hold suspension . We should leave it and get clear if we can . At least if it goes off down here the damage will be-
CAMERLENGO: NO .
VITTORIA: Wait !
LANGDON: Father , please !
REPORTER: in St. Peter 's Square where , despite a bomb threat and order of evacuation , the crowd is actually growing in size as we await
LANGDON: There it is !
MORTATI: Praise God .
LANGDON: Are you okay ?
VITTORIA: Do we have time for that story now ?
LANGDON: Do I have someone to tell it to ?
MORTATI: Signores you are no doubt aware that by Holy Law the man is ineligible for election to the papacy . He is not a cardinal , he is a priest , a chamberlain . And there is the matter of his inadequate age . I 'm sorry , the protocols of conclave are not subject to modification . I will not call a ballot on this matter .
AFRICAN CARDINAL: But Signore , you would not call the allot . Surely you remember you gave up your post as Great Elector .
SECOND CARDINAL: They are singing in St. Peter 's Square ! What happened here tonight transcends our laws !
MORTATI: Does it ? Is it God 's will that we abandon reason and give ourselves ove to frenzy ? Discard the rules of the church ?
THIRD CARDINAL: Perhaps they need not be discarded .
MORTATI: `` Acclimation by Adoration . ''
THIRD CARDINAL: Si , signore !
SECOND CARDINAL: Of course ! Election by Adoration occurs when all the cardinals , as if by inspiration of the Holy Spirit , freely and spontaneously , unanimously and aloud , proclaim one individual 's name .
THIRD CARDINAL: And the law states that Adoration supersedes all other eligibility equirements . The candidate need only be an ordained member of the clergy .
DRAMATICALLY: BUT ! He must be present in the Sistine Chapel at the moment of election .
SWISS GUARDSMAN: Please wait here while we arrange you transportation . May I get you anything ?
LANGDON: What are you doing ?
VITTORIA: Leonardo 's journals . I want them ack .
LANGDON: Wait a minute .
ROCHER: For safety .
LANGDON: For safety .
VITTORIA: Where 's that ?
LANGDON: Thatis the papal office .
CAMERLENGO: The scientist kept journals ? So ?
ROCHER: You figure prominently in them .
CAMERLENGO: Really .
ROCHER: Leonardo was n't just a physicist , he was a Catholic priest . Deeply conflicted about the implications of his work and in need of spiritual guidance . About a month ago , he equested an audience with the Pope . But you 'd know that , because you granted the audience , and were present during it .
CAMERLENGO: The fool thought he had duplicated the moment of creation .
ROCHER: And the Holy Father urged him to go public . His Holiness thought the discovery might actually prove the existence of a divine power begin to bridge the gap between religion and science .
CAMERLENGO: Science . The new God . Ignore the weapons and chaos and madness .
ROCHER: But you saw the Pope 's position as a softening of church law . An old man 's weakness . Your father 's weakness .
CAMERLENGO: He raised me to protect the church . Even from within .
ROCHER: So you brought an old enemy back from the dead to frighten people .
CAMERLENGO: Nothing unites hearts like the presence of evil .
ROCHER: It did n't work , Father .
CAMERLENGO: It is n't finished .
ROCHER: I 've informed Father Simeon of what I learned and he 'll get word to the Cardinals the moment conclave opens .
CAMERLENGO: I was planning on doing this alone .
ROCHER: Put that down .
CAMERLENGO: But perhaps it 's better that you 're here .
ROCHER: Put it down !
FR. SIMEON: You bastard ! You sanctimonious-
CAMERLENGO: ILLUMINATUS !
MORTATI: Gently . But within our walls .
BBC REPORTER: Church sources now confirm that Camerlengo Father Sebastian Guttierez has died of internal injuries sustained in his heroic fall
BRAZILIAN REPORTER: which has spurred calls for his immediate canonization and sainthood . The Vatican also announced the death of three of its cardinals in the fire at Santa Maria Delia Vittoria
AMERICAN REPORTER: but all eyes here are on the papal alcony as we await the appearance of the new Holy Father , who , despite terrorist attempts at disruption
SWISS GUARDSMAN: A token of thanks from His Holiness .
MORTATI: This should help you complete you scholarly work , Professor .
LANGDON: I yes , I of course .
MORTATI: When you write of us and you will write of us may I ask one thing ?
LANGDON: I 'll try .
MORTATI: Religion is flawed , Mr. Langdon , but only because man is flawed . Including this one .
LANGDON: I hear you 've chosen the name Luke . There have been Marks and Johns , but never a Luke .
MORTATI: It 's said he was a doctor .
LANGDON: Is that a message ? Science and faith all in one ?
MORTATI: The world is in need of both . Science can heal , or science can kill . It depends on the soul of the man using the science .
LANGDON: You 'll lead wisely .
MORTATI: I 'm an old man . I 'll lead briefly ,
LANGDON: I do n't believe He sent me , Father .
MORTATI: Oh , my son
AGAFIA: He needs to come in if he 's to wash himself .
LEVIN: Good girl . . . good girl , Pava . The calf 's head emerges .
KITCHEN MAID: Agafia Mishaylovna says dinner 's like to spoil .
LEVIN: . . . her father 's colour .
VASILI: Worth coming home for , Konstantin Dmitrich !
LEVIN: I stayed too long in Moscow . The cow nuzzles and licks her calf .
AGAFIA: So one of you is doing what the good Lord made you for .
MATVEY: What should I do with this ?
OBLONSKY: Where did you find it ?
MATVEY: In your hat . Your Excellency .
OBLONSKY: Yes . . . I picked it up somewhere for Daria Alexandrovna and the children .
DOLLY: Bonjour , Lili ; bonjour , Masha ; bonjour , Grisha ; bonjour , Tanya . Who 's coming to see Grandmama ?
OBLONSKY: My Tanruchoshka ! Mind my cigar .
PAUSE: Read the chapter carefully . I 'll come back to test you on it . . . Read it twice .
ANNA: Tsk , oh . . . Stiva !
KARENIN: Well . . . ?
ANNA: Stiva wants me to come to Moscow . . . to persuade Dolly to forgive him .
KARENIN: I 'm to be deprived of my wife so that adul- tery may be forgiven ? I ca n't excuse him just because he 's your brother .
ANNA: It 's for Dolly 's sake too .
KARENIN: I have four committees today . . .
LUKICH: Sergei Alexeyich is doing very well , You Excellency .
ANNA: Tsk-tsk , who put this shirt on you ? Neve mind . I 'll come and hear you read .
KARENIN: Tomorrow , perhaps . Thank you , Lukich perhaps tomorrow .
ANNA: Alexei , do you think nine years of mar- iage and children should count for nothing against a . . . an infatuation ? Karenin cracks his knuckles , concedes .
KARENIN: No . Very well . But sin has a price , you may be sure of that .
DOLLY: You think of the children ! Their lives are uined now ! She slams the door behind her .
OBLONSKY: Oh , Dolly . . . I beg you . . .
MATVEY: Telegram . Should I send up the barber ?
OBLONSKY: No , just the razor . Oblonsky tears open the telegram .
MATVEY: Do n't worry , sir , things will shape them- selves , you 'll see .
OBLONSKY: My sister Anna 's coming tomorrow . We 're saved .
DOORKEEPER: Some man came without an appointment , Your Excellency . . . waiting outside .
OBLONSKY: Levin ! Where did you disappear ? He seizes Levin and kisses him .
LEVIN: I 'm very anxious to see you . I need you advice .
OBLONSKY: Well , then , come into my room .
LEVIN: Hard at what exactly ?
OBLONSKY: Why , we 're overwhelmed with work !
LEVIN: Ohpaperwork .
OBLONSKY: Paperwork is the soul of Russia . Farming is only the stomach . When am I going to come and shoot some snipe ?
LEVIN: Yes . I 'm in love . I 've come back to propose . Have you guessed who she is ?
OBLONSKY: I have a suspicion . Why did n't you propose when you were here ?
LEVIN: I decided it was impossible . Kitty is of the heavens , an angel , and I am of the earth ut then I thought and thought , and . . .
OBLONSKY: Of course you do . The Shcherbatskys are giving a soiree this evening . Get there early efore the crowd . If I may suggest . . .
LEVIN: Anything ! What ?
OBLONSKY: New boots .
LEVIN: Right . Anything else ?
OBLONSKY: We 'd better have dinner together . Come on , we 'll meet later at l'Angleterre . Or do you prefer the Hermitage ?
OBLONSKY: It 's so unfair . You marry for love , you 're a good husband . Children arrive . Years depart . And all of a sudden your wife is tired , her hair is thin , her body . . . while
LEVIN: Forgive me , but I find that incomprehen-
OBLONSKY: Well , you know , a freshly baked roll . . .
LEVIN: But I 'm talking about love , and you 're talk- ing about . . . your appetite .
OBLONSKY: Easily confused . Now look , do you know Count Vronsky ?
LEVIN: Who ? No . Why ?
OBLONSKY: He 's your rival . He turned up from St. Petersburg after you left .
LEVIN: Who is he ?
OBLONSKY: You do n't have to worry about him . He 's one of those rich , good-looking cavalry offi- cers who 've got nothing to do but make love to pretty women . . .
ELDERLY WAITER: Potage aux choux a la Russe , as the gentle- man ordered .
LEVIN: It 's what I wanted . Oblonsky laughs . The Waiter departs .
ANGRY: Understand that for me , tonight is a ques- tion of life and death .
OBLONSKY: Oh , Kostya ! Kitty would be mad to refuse you . And Dolly is on your side , you know . She says her sister Kitty was always meant to be your wife and will be .
LEVIN: Dolly said that ? I 've always thought you Dolly 's a gem .
OBLONSKY: Oh , she is , she is . . .
THOUGHTFULLY: I loved her to distraction .
SEROZHA: But why ?
ANNA: Because that 's where Aunt Dolly lives .
SEROZHA: But why ?
ANNA: I told you , Serozha . She 's not well . I must go to see her .
SEROZHA: But why ?
ANNA: Now , do n't make Mama cry . I 'll be back efore you know , and bring you a present .
SEROZHA: Do n't want a present . I want you to stay . Anna is on the brink of tears .
ANNA: Oh . . . my little Kutik . . .
SEROZHA: What present ?
ANNA: That 's better . She dabs her eyes .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: So you are leaving your son and I am return- ing to mine . I am Countess Vronsky . Anna knows the name . countess vronsky I 've been in St. Petersburg for the christen- ing of a granddaughtermy elder son mar- ied Princess Chirkov . You 're a charming creature . Why do n't I know you ?
ANNA: I 've never been in Moscow society , really .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: But you know my name ?
ANNA: I 've heard you mentioned . . .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Talked about , you mean . Ah , love ! Anna , found out , smiles tentatively .
ANNA: Was it love ?
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Always . My sons are ashamed of me . But I 'd ather end up wishing I had n't than end up wishing I hadwould n't you ?
ANNA: I . . . I do n't know . . .
LEVIN: I 'll come back .
KITTY: Konstantin !
LEVIN: I 'm too early .
KITTY: No ! Come up !
KITTY: Look at me ! I 'm receiving for Papa and Maman who are late to dress . It 's my first eception .
LEVIN: Princess Ekaterina ! Delighted , delighted !
KITTY: I 'm so pleased you were able to be with us , Konstantin Dmitrich !
LEVIN: Kitty . . . you look . . . you look
KITTY: Stiva told us you were back . How long are you staying ?
LEVIN: I do n't know . It depends on you .
KITTY: On me ?
LEVIN: What I mean to sayI came with only one purposeI want towill you be my wife ?
KITTY: I ca n't . I 'm sorry .
LEVIN: Yes . It was impossible .
BURISOV: Burisov . Are you the brother of Nikolai Levin ?
LEVIN: Yes .
BURISOV: He 's in Moscow , he 's staying at the Unicorn in Khitrovka .
LEVIN: How do you know ?
BURISOV: It 's the sort of thing I know .
LEVIN: Count Vronsky ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
KITTY: It was yesterday ! Levin turns away and leaves .
LEVIN: It 's Kostya .
NIKOLAI: God , look at him ! You look like a capitalist !
THEN SUSPICIOUSLY: What do you want ?
LEVIN: Nothing . I came to see you .
LEVIN: Good evening , miss . . . madame . . .
LEVIN: I do n't want anything .
NIKOLAI: I 'm all right .
LEVIN: A colonel in the Third Department . They 're watching you .
NIKOLAI: Good . They must think I 'm dangerous .
LEVIN: Nothing .
NIKOLAI: That 's right . The day is coming . I gave up my birthright for it . You 're on the wrong side of history . Not because privilege is immoral but because it 's irrational .
MASHA: He is sick .
NIKOLAI: Let go or I 'll beat your lights out .
LEVIN: No .
NIKOLAI: Why not ? Are you waiting to fall in love ?
LEVIN: No .
NIKOLAI: Good . Romantic love will be the last illu- sion of the old order . You should marry one of your peasants .
LEVIN: Yes . I damn well should !
NIKOLAI: The brotherhood of man .
LEVIN: Nikolai , you have to see a doctor . Then come and stay with me at Pokrovskoe till you get your health back .
NIKOLAI: With my wife ? Levin becomes flustered .
CRIES OUT: What about the brotherhood of brothers ? Masha snatches up the banknotes .
STATIONMASTER: The private coach will stop opposite the carpet .
VRONSKY: Hello , what 's this ?
GUARDS OFFICER: Austrian royalty on their honeymoon . I 've got them for four days .
VRONSKY: Bad luck . What do they like ? Art ?
GUARDS OFFICER: Food .
VRONSKY: Here 's the train .
STATIONMASTER: I 'll see to it . He hurries away towards the engine .
MAJOR DOMO: Second carriage , Your Excellency . I 'll see to the Countess 's luggage and bring it on to the house .
ANNA: I 'll come back .
OBLONSKY: I am , I really am .
VRONSKY: Yes , of course . Oblonsky 's sister . . . Karenina .
COUNTESS: Charmante , do n't you think ? Wait for me in the carriage . I 'll take Tosca .
VRONSKY: . . . You stayed longer in St. Petersburg .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Long enough for you to start a little love affair , I hear .
VRONSKY: I ca n't think what you 're referring to , Maman .
ANNA: There , Countess , you have found your son and I have found my brother .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Madame Karenin has a son , too . It 's the first time they have been apart , so she frets about him .
VRONSKY: Excuse me for not recognizing you before .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: We passed the time telling each other about our sons .
ANNA: Yes , I 've been hearing all about you .
VRONSKY: That must have been very boring for you .
ANNA: Au revoir , Countess .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Au revoir , my dear . Let me kiss your pretty face .
VRONSKY: Keep your people inside until this has been cleared up .
ANNA: Ca n't anything be done for them ? Vronsky glances at her .
VRONSKY: Wait for me , Maman . Vronsky retraces his steps .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: I 've you to thank for that .
OBLONSKY: What a good fellow . . . Anna catches on , does n't like it .
ANNA: Have you known Count Vronsky long ?
OBLONSKY: Did you like him ? He 's in love with Kitty .
ANNA: Oh . . .
PAUSE: But we should be discussing you and Dolly .
OBLONSKY: I 've said it allon my kneesin tears . . . Now I need you to say it . I 'm going to the office , so you 'll have Dolly to yourself .
ANNA: Do n't be home late .
DOLLY: Kitty 's coming by to see you . She 's all grown-up , and a bit frightened of youthe elle of St. Petersburg society !
ANNA: Is that who I am ? Dolly . . . Stiva has told me . Dolly bursts into tears . Anna embraces her .
DOLLY: I do n't know what to do .
ANNA: I know , I know .
DOLLY: I ca n't bear to be with him . And he does n't care , he 's got what he wants .
ANNA: What he wants is you . He loves you , Dolly . You and the children are everything to him .
DOLLY: Are we ? And there is room for a governess ?
ANNA: That was shameful , disgraceful . But it was not love . It was the animal in man , not the soul . Stiva 's remorse is from the soul .
DOLLY: What about me ? Does his remorse make it easier for me ?
ANNA: I know you are suffering . But , Dolly , you
DOLLY: When I think of them together , I ca n't for- give him , no !
ANNA: My poor lamb . So you 'd rather accept you fate . . .
DOLLY: My fate ?
OUTRAGED: But I have n't done anything ! It 's him
ANNA: Do you love him , Dolly ? Dolly nods tearfully .
GRIGORI: here , darling , you can wear it till you go
KITTY: Will you stay for the Bobrishchev 's ball , Anna ?
ANNA: Oh . . . I always feel dull at a ball .
KITTY: How can you ever be dull ?
OBLONSKY: Of course she must .
ANNA: . . . and God go with you . Kitty catches the moment .
OBLONSKY: You can introduce me to your new governess .
TANYA: She 's old ! She 's a hundred ! Which leaves Anna and Kitty alone .
ANNA: I know why you want me to come . You want everyone to be there because you 're sure it 's going to be your night .
KITTY: How did you know ?
ANNA: I know everything .
VRONSKY: No .
LEVIN: Will you go to confession ? Serafina nods indifferently .
SERAFINA: And you also , master . He is watching .
LEVIN: God forgive us then , for committing the act of love . She nods without irony .
SERAFINA: He is merciful .
LEVIN: `` Not according to my deserts , O Lord , ut according to thy mercy '' that 's a fine prayer . But I 'm full of doubt . Sometimes I even doubt that God exists .
SERAFINA: How can there be anything if God did n't make it ?
LEVIN: I do n't know . One day science will tell us .
SERAFINA: That 's sinful talk if the priest heard you .
LEVIN: Well , I wo n't go to confession .
SERAFINA: Your father built the church . You 're con- fessed a while yet . Levin feels outplayed .
LEVIN: What would you like ?
SERAFINA: Soap , the kind wrapped in paper to look pretty , and smelling like for a proper lady . Levin is touched . He nods .
YOUTH: Kitty ! May I have a waltz ?
KITTY: You may , Boris . I 'll save you the third just ecause it 's your first ball .
YOUTH: You 're my first conquest .
KITTY: There .
KORSUNSKY: So that your ankles may be seen .
KITTY: How are you , Stiva ?
OBLONSKY: Thanks to Anna , I am a happy man . Would you like to dance ?
KITTY: No , ask Anna .
ANNA: No . . . I do n't . . .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: . . . this vile , idiotic matchmaking of yours . . .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: For goodness ' sake , what have I done ?
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Levin is a thousand times better than this Petersburg fop . If he had royal blood my daughter would n't need him !
KITTY: Is anything the matter ?
KITTY: Do n't ask me , Maman !
COUNTESS NORDSTON: He 'll dance the mazurka with Kitty , you 'll see . I call the mazurka the now-or-never .
VRONSKY: Dance with me .
ANNA: I am not used to being spoken to like that y a man I met once at a railway station .
VRONSKY: I dare say , but if I 'm not to dance with you , I 'm getting out of this operetta and going home .
ANNA: Then , for Kitty 's sake . She gives him her hand .
COUNTESS NORDSTON: You 're not dancing the mazurka ? I wo n't have it . She pulls Kitty to her feet . countess nordston I 'm engaged by General GlubI give him to you .
KORSUNSKY: . . . the lady chooses a lady and a gentleman . . . !
ADDRESSING ANNA: . . . and the lady chooses a lady and a gentleman . . . !
GUARD: Bologoye ! Fifteen minutes . The train is slowing .
VRONSKY: Can I be of service to you ?
ANNA: I did n't know you were . . . Why are you leaving ?
VRONSKY: You know why . I have to be where you are . I ca n't not .
ANNA: This is wrong . If you 're a good man , forget everything that happened , as I will .
VRONSKY: I 'll never forget a single thing about you , not a word , not a gesture
ANNA: That 's enough !
VRONSKY: Take the luggage home .
ANNA: Is Serozha all right ?
KARENIN: Oh , is that all I get ? Yes , he 's quite well .
VRONSKY: Did you have a good night ? He bows to Karenin .
ANNA: Yes , quite comfortable . Count Vronsky .
KARENIN: I have to get back to the Committee . . . He walks Anna away .
ANNA: I ? OhDolly and Stiva . . . yes , I think so . . . Vronsky watches them go .
VRONSKY: I 'll announce myself .
PETRITSKY: Vronsky ! The master himself . Baroness , coffee from the new coffeepot for Count Vronsky .
BARONESS: I 'll be off home if I 'm in the way .
VRONSKY: You 're at home where you are , Baroness .
BARONESS: Ah ! Pierre , you never say such pretty things to me . We were just discussing my husband . He wo n't divorce me , you see . And do you know why ?
VRONSKY: No .
BARONESS: Because he likes eating off my family silver .
VRONSKY: Ah .
BARONESS: I want to bring an action . Just because I 'm supposed to be unfaithful , I do n't see why I
VRONSKY: It 's my crockery .
PETRITSKY: How was Moscow ?
VRONSKY: Provincial .
SEROZHA: You 've stopped .
SLEEPILY: Thank you for my present .
ANNA: Sssh . . .
KARENIN: Time for bed !
ANNA: I 'm writing to Dolly . . . and to Kitty .
KARENIN: You are . . . good . Anna shakes her head and clasps his hand .
ANNA: What new Statute ?
KARENIN: The new Statute I carried in Council . Anna blows her candle out and gets into bed .
ANNA: No one mentioned it .
KARENIN: Ah . Really ? He comes to bed in his nightshirt .
FAMILY DOCTOR: Forgive me , Princess , but I must . . .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Am I the only one who knows what 's wrong with her ?
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Oh , thank God , doctormy friends say you 're the only one who can save her !
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: By God . I 'll challenge the scoundrel !
FAMILY DOCTOR: It 's the modern way . . .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: You 're not a doctor !
FAMILY DOCTOR: Her symptoms . . . loss of appetite , fast
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Well , whose pulse would n't be fast if some ute of a
CELEBRITY DOCTOR: Nervous palpitations . We must treat the nerves . A tubercular cavity is suspected , too soon to tell . Soden water every two hours . I must see her again tomorrow .
HE BOWS: Prince ! Princess ! He 's gone . The Prince enters Kitty 's room .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Do n't you fret , my little Kate ! You 'll wake up one fine morning and say to yourself '' I feel well and happy and I 'll go out for a walk with Papa ! ''
ANNA: Yes . . . Yes , the Metropolitan Bishop of St. Petersburg . Betsy laughs .
KARENIN: Countess Lydia tells me you have n't been to one of her evenings since you returned .
ANNA: The last one was to meet a missionary , the one before was for a lecture on the union of the Greek and Roman churches .
CLIMBS DOWN: I 'm sorryI know you 're fond of her . Come on , or we 'll be late . Kapitonich opens the door to let them out .
DEMIN: Here 's the thing , Vronsky . A posting has come up and there 's a promotion in it fo you .
VRONSKY: Thank you , sir .
DEMIN: The garrison in Tashkent .
VRONSKY: Tashkent ? But . . . I would like to stay in Peter , sir , if you do n't mind .
DEMIN: I do n't mind . But your mother . . .
BETSY: You did n't come to my dinner .
VRONSKY: I had to see my Commanding Officer .
BETSY: `` She '' did n't come either .
LYDIA: . . . work never ceases for great men . Your husband is a saint and we must all cherish him for Russia 's sake . Anna winces a smile .
ANNA: I 'm expected at the Tverskoys .
LYDIA: No doubt , but I 'm sure Princess Betsy can wait for you , my dear .
ANNA: Yes . In fact , I think I wo n't go to Betsy 's .
BETSY: You 're caught .
VRONSKY: I 'm afraid I am becoming ridiculous .
LISA MERKALOVA: Now , there 's a phenomenon , look Anna 's shadow has arrived before Anna !
ANNA'S FRIEND: I 'm Anna 's friend . . . but this making-up- one's-mind-to-it in public is not polite to a distinguished man like Karenin .
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: In my opinion Karenin is a fool , and Anna is the best of us .
LISA MERKALOVA: And we all love you for your contrary opin- ions , Princess .
BETSY: Alexei . . . You look desperate . That 's not attractive .
VRONSKY: I 'm losing hope .
BETSY: Hope of what ? Persuading a virtuous woman to break her marriage vows ?
VRONSKY: And how is Tuskevich ?
BETSY: That 's not attractive either . Besides , I was never virtuous .
VRONSKY: Noyou 're right . She wo n't come . I 'm going home .
VOICES: Was n't Nilsson glorious ? One sees that she has studied Kaulbach , of course . . . There 's something Louis Quinze about Tuskevich . . . as if he came with the furniture . . . Betsy is smoking elegantly . She kisses Anna .
BETSY: He 's gone . But you 're just in time for the surprise .
ANNA: I would prefer to try a cigarette .
VRONSKY: Courage ! Anna smiles . Puffs delicately once .
ANNA: Thank you . She gives the cigarette to him .
VRONSKY: When ?
ANNA: Just as I was thinking your manners have improved since Moscow . You behaved badly , very badly .
VRONSKY: And who was responsible for that ? Anna gets up and walks over to Betsy 's chair .
ANNA: Give me a cup of tea .
BETSY: How niceAlexei Aleksandrevich has arrived .
LISA MERKALOVA: I 'm not sure my nerves can stand anothe Alexei at this moment .
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: So the Schuzburgs asked us to dinner . The sauce was said to have cost a thousand rou- les , and it was ghastly . We had to ask them ack . I gave them a sauce that cost eighty- five kopeks and it was a triumph .
VRONSKY: Were you glad to see me or not ?
ANNA: This must stop . You make me feel as if I were guilty of something .
VRONSKY: What do you want me to do ?
ANNA: I want you to go to Moscow and beg Kitty to forgive you .
VRONSKY: No , that 's not what you want . Moscow ? I can do better than that . Tonight I refused a posting to Tashkent . I can change my mind , and you 'll never see me again .
ANNA: If you have any thought for me , you will give me back my peace .
VRONSKY: I have no peace to give . There can be no peace for usonly misery or the greatest happiness . You are my whole life now .
BETSY: Your husband is impossible ! his opinions are all wrong but he talks so brilliantly he wins every argument . Anna looks up at her , hearing nothing .
ANNA: What ?
KARENIN: I called to take you home .
ANNA: No , I 'm staying . Send the carriage back for me .
KARENIN: Of course .
VRONSKY: Do you want me to go to Tashkent ?
VRONSKY: So I 'll go to Tashkent .
ANNA: No . I do n't want you to go . She turns and goes out . Vronsky follows her .
ANNA: Waiting up ? How unlike you !
KARENIN: Yes , I stayed up to talk to you .
ANNA: What about ? It 's late . Where 's Annushka ? He waits for her to return without her cloak .
KARENIN: I sent her off .
ANNA: Well , if you want to talk , but we should go to bed .
KARENIN: I have to warn you about something .
ANNA: Warn me ? It 's really rather late . . .
KARENIN: I wish to warn you that you may inadver-
ANNA: I am not a committee . Please say what you want to tell me .
KARENIN: You and Count Vronsky attracted attention tonight .
KARENIN: I did n't notice anything , myself . But I saw that everyone else noticed . I consider jeal- ousy to be insulting to you and degrading to me . I have no right to inquire into you feelings . They concern only your conscience . But I 'm your husband and I love you . It 's my duty to remind you that we are bound together by God , and this bond can only be oken by a crime against God .
ANNA: I have nothing to say to you , and I 'm tired .
KARENIN: And you have a son .
KARENIN: Forgive me .
TURNING ASIDE: If I am wrong , I ask your pardon .
ANNA: I do n't know what you 're talking about , and
ALMOST INAUDIBLE: Too late .
ANNA: Oh God forgive me . It 's the end of everythingI 've got nothing left now , only you . Remember that .
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna . . . how can I not remem- er ? You 're my happiness .
ANNA: Happiness ! You murdered my happiness .
LEVIN: I thought that had been done .
VASILI: I gave the order . What can you do with these people ?
OBLONSKY: Ahpotage aux choux a la Russe ! Agafia comes in with the roast fowl .
LEVIN: Of Babylon ? No .
OBLONSKY: You 're right , what do you care ? You love the countryyou 've got it . You love agricultur- ing , and , Lord knows , you 've got it . You love shootingyou 've got it . You 've got every- thing you want !
LEVIN: All right , go on , then . Have you stopped stealing bread rolls ?
LEVIN: So , nothing new to tell me . How ishow are the Shcherbatskys ?
OBLONSKY: You mean Kitty .
LEVIN: I . . . Is she engaged now ?
OBLONSKY: No . Vronsky went back to St. Petersburg . He waits for this to sink in .
LEVIN: Oh yes , as if I had time in the summer ! And I 've got extra land this year at Kashin fo the haymaking .
OBLONSKY: Kashin ? That 's on the Ergoshovo road , is n't it ? Wo n't you call when Kitty is there ?
OBLONSKY: Damn you , Kostya , you love Kitty and you ca n't forgive her because , first , you funked it , then you bungled it , then you ran away from an eighteen-year-old girl who was made a fool of by a uniform . It 's Kitty I 'm sorry fornot you !
LEVIN: Her heart told her no . Did you come to shoot snipe or criticize me ?
OBLONSKY: Look outhere they come !
DOLLY: There . Oh , I 'm sore with his feeding ! Would you like to hold him ?
KITTY: I have no troubles .
DOLLY: That man was n't worth the tears , believe me .
KITTY: I do n't care about him . I do n't even think about him . Or her . Except to hate her .
DOLLY: Then we 'll never speak of it again . Dolly relieves Kitty of the baby .
KITTY: What has Levin got to do with it ? Anyway , I 'll never get married . The whole business
DOLLY: Because it 's love .
ANNA: I want you to . I do n't care about it .
VRONSKY: You should care . You 're not supposed to .
ANNA: Pooh ! Who says ?
VRONSKY: Everybody . Doctors .
ANNA: You 're squeamish . You a soldier ! Would you faint ?
VRONSKY: Anyway , someone might be watching .
ANNA: But I 'm damned anyway .
VRONSKY: I 'm not . I 'm blessed .
ANNA: You love me .
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: Only me .
VRONSKY: No .
ANNA: Apart from Frou-Frou .
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: But me more than your horse ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: Are you happy ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: And you love me ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: How much ?
VRONSKY: This much .
ANNA: This much ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: This much ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: This much ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: This much ? And this much ? And this much ?
VRONSKY: Yes .
ANNA: And . . . this . . . much . . . ? She falls on him . He strokes her hair .
KARENIN: Countess . . . I thought you would be at Peterhof now .
LYDIA: I 've come from there . I 'm distressed that you have n't taken your usual house this year .
KARENIN: Anna wanted a change . She is spending the summer at Tsarskoe .
LYDIA: Near Princess Betsy . And . . . Karenin waits .
KARENIN: Oh , is this about my wife ? He smiles at her .
ALEXANDER: Alyosha . . . a message from Maman . He friend Princess Sorokina has a house here , and a virgin daughter , that 's not part of the
DEMIN: GentlemenI give youthe regiment ! General uproar . `` The regiment . ''
ALEXANDER: I heard you turned down a promotion .
VRONSKY: That was Maman interfering .
ALEXANDER: Yes . And now she 's come up with a princess for you .
SERIOUSLY: Alexeiwe 're brothers , so do n't take offence . Getting married puts the pack on your backit leaves your hands free fo climbing the ladder . Getting serious about a married woman is like carrying your pack in your arms .
VRONSKY: So they talk about me . I 'm leaving , Sasha .
ALEXANDER: An assignation ?
VRONSKY: Come on , I 'll introduce you .
ALEXANDER: Beautiful . A man would come to no harm . Do you think you 'll win tomorrow ?
VRONSKY: Makhotin 's Gladiator is favourite , sixteen handsFrou-Frou looks dainty beside him , but she 's got heart . Have n't you , my darling ? He kisses Frou-Frou .
ANNA: Alexei , what is it ?
ANNA: I 'm pregnant . Vronsky presses her hand to his face .
VRONSKY: Ah . . . My love . He kisses her brow and her eyes .
ANNA: How can we , Alexei ?
VRONSKY: Tell Karenin everything .
ANNA: Do you think my husband will make you a present of me ?
VRONSKY: Leave him .
ANNA: Leave him and be your mistress ?
VRONSKY: Yes . Run away .
ANNA: I would never see my son again . The laws are made by husbands and fathers .
VRONSKY: What , then ? I 'll never forgive myself fo your unhappiness . Anna looks into his face .
ANNA: Unhappiness ? I 'm like a starving begga who has been given food . She smiles rapturously .
KARENIN: How are you , young man ? Your tuto does n't seem to be in evidence . We 'll have a look at your lesson books .
ANNA: Alexei ! you got away at last . Can you stay ?
KARENIN: Why . . . ?
ANNA: Go and find Vasily Lukich . Serozha runs into the house .
KARENIN: Races , surely . No , I 'll come on later , and then I must get back to town .
OBLONSKY: Princess ! A bet ! What do you fancy in the next ?
BETSY: Kusolev .
OBLONSKY: I 'm on Vronsky . A pair of gloves ?
BETSY: Done !
TO ANNA: Alexander Vronsky . . .
ANNA: Alexei . . . !
KARENIN: I 'm here .
OBLONSKY: Vronsky 's unhurtbut the horse . . .
OFFICER: Her back 's broken !
ANNA: No , leave me alone .
BETSY: I 'll bring her home , Alexei .
SMILING POLITELY: Excuse me , Princess , but Anna is not well and I want her to come with me .
KARENIN: You know . . . they say the Emperor dis- approves of the races . . . the danger of injury . . . but I . . . Anna looks at him contemptuously .
ANNA: What ?
KARENIN: I 'm saying there is a value in manly sport , for the military
ANNA: I do n't understand .
ANNA: What are you talking about ? Karenin changes tack .
KARENIN: I have to tell you
ANNA: Yes .
KARENIN: I have to tell you , you behaved improperly today .
ANNA: And how was that ?
KARENIN: By making plain your feelings when one of the riders fell . Your conduct was improper .
ANNA: No , you were not mistaken . I love him . I am his mistress . I ca n't bear you , I 'm afraid of you , I hate you . Do what you like to me .
KARENIN: Wait , please . Move away . The Servant backs off .
ANNA: Are you hurt ?
VRONSKY: What 's happened ?
ANNA: I told him I 'm your mistress .
VRONSKY: No , you can not .
MAJOR DOMO: Their Excellencies Minister Karenin and Madame Karenin !
BETSY: Alexei Aleksandrevich . . . congratulations . You 're the only man my husband would do this for .
ANNA: Tell me your latest find for your library .
PRINCE TVERSKOY: Not in front of the Princess .
ANNA: Both true .
KARENIN: Time for bed !
KARENIN: Tell me what I did to deserve this .
YOUNG PEASANT: Konstantin Dmitrich , you 'll know you ows when the field 's all done !
LEVIN: How many mowers is it , Theodore ?
THEODORE: Forty-two , master . In your father 's time it was work for two days for thirty men . . .
SLYLY: . . . though he never picked up a scythe himself .
LEVIN: The men do n't like me for it .
THEODORE: They like what they 're used to .
LEVIN: It settles me .
THEODORE: How is that , master ?
LEVIN: When I 'm mowing , I do n't ask myself why I 'm here .
THEODORE: You 're here to be master , Konstantin Dmi-
LEVIN: My father owned you , Theodore . My grand- father owned your father . Owned you like chattels , to be bought and sold . Was that by the grace of God ?
THEODORE: It was . Those were good times when you father had the keeping of us . That 's my youngest you were looking at there . His young life is perilous now since the Free- dom came and work must be found .
LEVIN: It 's true I was looking at him .
THEODORE: At his wife too , I dare say . Levin is abashed , found out .
LEVIN: They look happier than I 've ever been . Is it living simply that I 'm looking for ?
VRONSKY: He 's some kind of prince at home . Exhaust- ing . Where is Tuskevitch this evening ?
BETSY: Why ask me ?
VRONSKY: Captain Makhotin . . . Vronsky bows to the women .
MAKHOTIN: Lucky woman . Give her my respects , and to Karenin if you see him . Vronsky freezes in anger .
BETSY: Do n't . Would you compromise me ? And Lisa ?
STREMOV: I only say that a man who ca n't govern his wife has perhaps gone as far as he can go in government .
KAPITONICH: Good evening , Your Excellency .
VRONSKY: I am expected . Kapitonich nods to the Footman .
ANNA: No ! no . I will not live like this ! He holds her , calming her , hushing her .
VRONSKY: It 's punishment enough that I 'm on escort duty , without . . .
VRONSKY: You wrote that you were ill .
ANNA: Did I ? Well , I am !
GAILY: But do n't worry ! It wo n't be for long , I 'll soon be out of your waysoon !
VRONSKY: Stop .
ANNA: No , it 's true . I was told it in a dream .
VRONSKY: There , it was only a bad dream .
ANNA: Yes , and I 'm only going to die having you aby .
VRONSKY: That 's all nonsense ! She kisses him all over his face .
VRONSKY: Your note said your husband would be out .
ANNA: He was late . Serves him right . And you . Why do you call him my husband ? He is n't my husbandhe 's a clock , a wooden doll
VRONSKY: But it was awkward . . . a matter of you honour . You made an agreement . Anna flares up again .
ANNA: Do you think of my honour when you 're sharing whores with your Hindoo !
VRONSKY: Your demon again !
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna gives a gasp . She laughs .
ANNA: Put your hand there . There ! Did you feel him move !
STREMOV: I must respectfully ask Minister Karenin whether his proposals for the regulation of these colourful Gypsy tribes , of these schol- arly God-fearing Jews , and ofbut I 'm
KARENIN: Who is here ?
KAPITONICH: Only Madame , Your Excellency .
ANNA: I wanted to see him because . . .
KARENIN: I do not wish to be told why a woman wants to see her lover .
ANNA: What are you . . . ?
KARENIN: I want his letters .
KARENIN: Do you think I would let you have my son ? You are depraved , a woman without honour . I
OBLONSKY: Levin ! What . . . ? Levin smiles , hopefully , sheepish .
LEVIN: I need your advice . . .
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Well , is he coming ?
LEVIN: Am I late ? Who is here ?
OBLONSKY: Of course you 're late ! Come and meet . . . Countess Nordston .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: Come into the fold . . .
DOLLY: Kitty is here .
KITTY: Konsantin . . . what a long time since we saw each other .
LEVIN: Since you saw me , but I saw you not so long ago .
KITTY: When ?
LEVIN: You were driving to Ergoshovo . . . I was at Kashin for the haymaking .
KITTY: Oh , but why did n't you . . . ? They are both embarrassed by the wrong step .
LEVIN: I 'm so glad to see you . You 're just the same .
KITTY: I hope notI was young and silly in those days .
LEVIN: Months and months ago !
KITTY: And you have n't changed .
LEVIN: No . I have n't .
OBLONSKY: Permit me to announcesoup Marie Lou- ise , carp with asparagus , and roast beef ! I went to the market in person !
TO MATVEY: An extra place .
OBLONSKY: Karenin ! I 'm glad you came .
KARENIN: I 've been on tour in the regions , a govern- ment commission . . . I 'm sorryI have come to tell you our connection must be severed . I 'm going to divorce your sister .
OBLONSKY: Divorce ? Dear me , what are you talking about ? Do n't be in a hurry . Stay to dinne and later talk it over with Dolly
KARENIN: Prince Oblonsky , everything is over between our families .
OBLONSKY: Alexei . . . divorce is one thing but dinne is quite another .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: You Petersburgers think yourselves so de on ton compared with dull , old-fashioned
OBLONSKY: Well , what 's this government commission , Karenin . . . ?
KARENIN: What was the challenge about ?
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Pryachnikov 's wife , naturally .
PRINCE SHCHERBATSKY: It was a matter of honour , defending a woman 's honour . . . Karenin remains cool .
KARENIN: It sounds like barbarism to me . . . And what if the lover had killed the husband ? would that have preserved the wife 's honou too ?
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Still , not many of us can say that our love died for love !
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Would you die for love , Konstantin Dmitrich ?
LEVIN: I would . But not for my neighbour 's wife .
COUNTESS NORDSTON: Ah , an idealist !
KARENIN: I tried to save her . She chose ruin .
DOLLY: Alexei Aleksandrevichlook at me . You will have no peace of mind until you forgive her . It was Anna who taught me that .
KARENIN: I do not wish to forgive . I am not a cruel man . I have never hated anyone . But I hate her with all my soul for all the wrong she has done me .
OBLONSKY: It 's your turn to play us something , Countess .
LEVIN: Since we last met , there is something I have often wanted to ask you .
KITTY: What is that ?
LEVIN: This . Kitty tries .
KITTY: Do Not . . . Levin adds an I next to the D .
LEVIN: I know what it says .
KARENIN: Die , then . He stands in the snow , uncertain .
KAPITONICH: Safely delivered of a daughter , You Excellency .
KARENIN: So . . . she is well ?
KAPITONICH: The mistress is very poorly . The doctor . . .
VRONSKY: She 's dying . Please let me stay .
DOCTOR: Thank God ! She talks only of you .
ANNA: Why does n't he come ? He is kind . He will forgive me .
MIDWIFE: He 's herelooklookca n't you see him ?
ANNA: I want Alexei ! Why does n't he come ? Give me some water . No , I must n't , it 's not good for my little girl . Or let her have a nurse . Yesdo n't bring her here , because Alexei is coming and it will hurt him to see her .
ANNUSHKA: He 's come , my dearlook there . . .
DOCTOR: More ice . Annushka hurries out .
ANNA: Oh , what nonsense . I must be asleep , that 's what it is . You think he wo n't forgive me ut you do n't know him . No one knows him except me . I 'm not afraid of him now .
KARENIN: I am free of them . Anna closes her eyes and sleeps again .
VRONSKY: Whatever you think of me , please believe me , I love herI could not have done other- wise than what I . . . what I did . Karenin nods and sits next to him .
KARENIN: But you must leave now . I promise to send
COUNTESS VRONSKY: Look at you . You look like what you are . A laughingstock . I fancy you are to be asked to leave the regiment .
VRONSKY: I would like you to go , Maman .
COUNTESS VRONSKY: I will go when I 'm ready to go . A little affair with a married woman puts a finish- ing touch to a young man 's educationbut
VRONSKY: In Petersburg ? I 'm finished here .
OBLONSKY: But she does love you !
LEVIN: How can she ? I mean , look at me ! Suppose she 's only marrying me to get married ? Suppose she 's still in love with Vronsky ? She 's making a terrible mistake ! I 'll go to her and tell her she 's free , that 's what I must do . . .
MATVEY: Your coat , sir .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: Konstantin ! what ?
LEVIN: I have to talk to Kitty .
PRINCESS SHCHERBATSKY: You 're not allowed to see her ! Levin gallops up the stairs .
KITTY: No . I do n't understand at all ! What 's the matter with you ?
LEVIN: You ca n't love me . Think it over ! Let people say what they like !
KITTY: Are you mad ? Have you changed you mind ?
LEVIN: Yes . If you do n't love me .
KITTY: But I do love you ! Levin hesitates , desperate .
LEVIN: Do you ? Well , I love you !
KITTY: Oh , Konstantin !
BETSY: . . . and there was her husband wearing he est ballgown , rouge all over his face . . .
KARENIN: Who is here ?
FOOTMAN: Princess Elisabeth Federovna Tverskaya , Your Excellency .
KARENIN: Please excuse me .
ANNA: Nostay .
BETSY: I am so glad to see you . Everyone asks afte you . Karenin bows to her and kisses Anna 's hand .
KARENIN: You look feverish .
BETSY: We have been talking too muchso I 'm going .
ANNA: Princess Betsy came to tell me . . . I do n't want to hide anything from you . . . Count Vronsky asked to come to say goodbyehe 's going away . I have said I ca n't receive him . Betsy kisses Anna .
BETSY: Goodbye , my treasure .
KARENIN: I agree with you . As he is going away , there is no need for Count Vronsky to come here .
ANNA: I have just said so , so there 's no need to epeat it .
KARENIN: But it is for you to decide .
ANNA: Yes , and I decided .
KARENIN: Then I am very glad that
ANNA: That we agree , so perhaps we can stop talk- ing about it .
KARENIN: Of course . Is there anything I can do fo you ?
ANNA: Yes , can you please please please stop crack- ing your knuckles .
PAUSE: I 'm a bad woman . But I ca n't breathe . You kindness which I ca n't repay , and you
KARENIN: You begged me for my forgiveness .
ANNA: But I did n't die and now I have to live with it ! If only you would have gone on hating me .
KARENIN: But thenwhat ? What ? What do you want ? Do you know what you want ? Do you want to see Count Vronsky ?
ANNA: Not to say goodbye .
KARENIN: I ca n't hear .
ANNA: Not to say goodbye .
KARENIN: You would be lost . Irretrievably lost . You would have no position . And worse if we divorce . You would be the guilty party . That means you can not legally remarry . Your union with Count Vronsky would be illegitimate , and so would your daughte who now has the protection of my name . And that is what you want ! It would be a sin to help you destroy yourself .
ANNA: You forget something . Count Vronsky and I love each other .
KARENIN: And this love sanctifies a criminal folly ?
KARENIN: I see . And Serozha . . . ?
ANNA: I would die for him , but I wo n't live like this for him . When he knows about love , he 'll forgive me . Karenin can see where this takes him .
KARENIN: Then I must choose the smaller sin . Vronsky obbed me of my cloak and I will give him my coat . I will give you grounds to divorce me , and I 'll accept the scandal , the humilia- tion and the consequences to my career .
ANNA: No . . . I ca n't . . .
KARENIN: You may write to him but I would prefe you not to see him until you have left this house .
VRONSKY: You look like a boy . But so pale . We 'll go south . . . to the sea air and sunshine . . .
KARENIN: Madame Odette . . . ?
LYDIA: I have forced my way in ! I have heard !
KARENIN: Countess , every shopkeeper has heard .
LYDIA: My dear friend ! Do n't give way to sorrow . Our Lord Jesus Christ has you in his care .
KARENIN: No , I 'm done for . I do n't understand any- thing . All day long I 'm being asked to make decisions about bills and servants , the kitchen , Serozha 's clothes . . .
LYDIA: I understand . I understand everything . I am going to act . The household arrangements you can leave to me . I will come every day . I will be a second mother to Serozha .
LEVIN: This is Agafia , and Vasili , the steward . . . My wife , Ekaterina Alexandrovna Levin .
KITTY: I am very pleased to meet you both .
LEVIN: And that was Kuzma . Come inside !
VASILI: Carefuldoor 's still a bit . . . it 's all right , it 'll be dry tomorrow . . .
LEVIN: Is it all right ?
KITTY: NoI want to see everything . Agafia panics .
LEVIN: A moment . Levin follows Agafia out .
AGAFIA: . . . and now I 'm doing kitchen maid 's work because Nadya 's parents wo n't let he set foot in this house , and who can blame them ! it 's indecent !
LEVIN: It 's me , Konstantin .
NIKOLAI: Yes , good . The doctor here is uselessget me a doctor from Moscow .
LEVIN: Where did you go ? I asked for you every- where , when I was getting married .
MASHA: I 'm sorry . . . I could n't leave him . I know I 've done wrong .
LEVIN: Yes . My wife . . . You ca n't stay now .
AGAFIA: I could n't go against Nikolai Dmitrich 's orders . . .
LEVIN: Yesyes . . . She 's going . An unwelcome thought strikes Levin .
KITTY: Good . A clean nightshirt and sheets . A towel and a clean pail of warm water . Ask Agafia for vinegar , and to prepare a bed somewhere for Masha . Wait .
KITTY: I 'm not looking .
NIKOLAI: I 'm going . . .
LEVIN: Thank you , Father . . . and how much . . . ? He offers a handful of paper money .
PRIEST: At your benevolence . It is a custom , not a levy , Your Excellency . . . Jesus overturned
KITTY: You 're such an expert on love , Kostya . . . why did n't you know it when you saw it ?
LYDIA: Alexei , they 're back ! Here in St. Petersburg ! She has written to me . Karenin accepts the letter and reads it .
LYDIA: My friend . . . you would be blowing on the embers of a fire which must be allowed to die . . . Let me write to her .
ANNA: I 'm here to see Sergei Alexeyich .
ANNA: I have brought something for Sergei Alexeyich .
KAPITONICH: He is not up yet . Would you wish to wait ? Who shall I say . . . ?
ANNA: I 've come to see Sergei Alexeyich .
KAPITONICH: He 's been moved to the small sitting room .
KAPITONICH: I 'll just look in .
SEROZHA: Mama .
ANNA: Oh , my dear little boy .
SEROZHA: I knew you would come . Today is my irthday .
SEROZHA: You do n't want that . . . Let me see .
KORNEY: It 's your fault for letting her in ! you should be sacked .
KAPITONICH: Oh yes , you would have sent her packing ! Ten years I 've been keeping the door and the mistress was always kind to me . You
LUKICH: I 've had enough of thisit 's my job to get the boy out of bed before His Excellency comes . . .
ANNA: Darling Kutik , Maman ca n't stay . . . Serozha clings to Anna .
SEROZHA: Do n't go ! he 's not coming yet .
ANNA: Yes , I must , and you must love Papa he 's better than I am . When you 're grown-up . . .
SEROZHA: No one in the whole world is better than you . Anna hugs him .
ANNA: Where 's Anya ?
ANNUSHKA: She 's still asleep . Should I take your coat ? Anna shakes her head .
ANNA: I 'm not sleeping .
ANNUSHKA: I can send out for something . Anna nods .
VRONSKY: Why are you in the dark ? He turns on a gaslight .
ANNA: To where ? To whom ?
VRONSKY: What 's the matter ?
ANNA: I did n't know what happened to you .
ANNA: Does it take all day for you to meet you other ? Does he need you more than I do ?
VRONSKY: What 's happened ? Anna shakes her head .
YASHVIN: It 's wonderful to have you both returned .
ANNA: How good you are to come . You 're the very first person to call on me since our return .
YASHVIN: But perhaps you 'll meet at the opera tonight ?
YASHVIN: Madame , your box is number four ! You 'll find me there with Princess Myagkaya . Will you come , Vronsky ?
ANNA: I see why . . . Alexei is so fond of you . Yashvin laughs and bows himself out .
VRONSKY: You know you ca n't go to the theatre ?
ANNA: Annushka !
VRONSKY: For heaven 's sake Annushka comes .
ANNA: A bath . I 'll come in and choose a dress . Annushka goes .
VRONSKY: AnnaI implore youdo n't you know . . . ?
ANNA: I 'm not ashamed of who I am or what I 've done are you ashamed for me ? Why do you keep a room at the hotel ? Are n't we together ? Have you changed towards me ?
VRONSKY: It 's because I love you and care about you .
ANNA: If that 's the case , I do n't know why you are n't coming with me .
VRONSKY: That would make it worse .
ANNA: You 're afraid . Well , I 'm not .
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Anna . . . !
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Should we visit or stay put ?
ANNA: Stay put .
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Minister ! Congratulations . Come in for a moment .
VRONSKY: You 'll come up to see us afterwards . . . ?
ALEXANDER: Talk to Varya .
VRONSKY: Will you call on Anna ?
VRONSKY: For God 's sake , Anna is n't a criminal !
VARYA: I 'd call on her if she 'd only broken the law . But she broke the rules .
PRINCESS MYAGKAYA: Who has made the decor ? Have n't we got a programme ? Colonel , would you be so kind . . . ?
YASHVIN: Of course .
NEIGHBOUR: Please . . . I would be honoured if you would take mine . . .
ANNA: Thank you , how very . . .
PRINCE TVERSKOY: Catullus , printed in Venice , 1501 . . . emarkable .
HOUSE MANAGER: A thousand apologies , Princess , but . . .
VRONSKY: Captain Makhotin . . .
WIFE'S VOICE: It 's a disgrace ! Take me home !
WIFE: Fetch my cloak !
BETSY: Yes , why do n't you ? Rescue her and put your seal on the fiasco . Vronsky knows it and is trapped .
VRONSKY: As far as I 'm concerned , she 's my wife .
BETSY: But , as you saw , she is n't .
VRONSKY: We 're going to Moscow , and then to my place in the country .
BETSY: That sounds like a good idea .
VRONSKY: But for a day or two , Anna will be at home , at my flat . Betsy shrugs .
PAUSE: Then , I 'll say goodbye now .
ANNA: . . . you had an excellent night ! Does you mother want you to marry the widow or the child ?
VRONSKY: Either one .
ANNA: Do n't make a joke of it . If you loved me , you would have locked me in to stop me going .
VRONSKY: Yes , it was my fault .
ANNA: I wo n't sleep .
VRONSKY: I know how to make you sleep .
DOLLY: Anna . . . I am very glad to see you . Are you well ? How is your little one ? Anna nods , words wo n't come .
ANNA: I understand .
DOLLY: No , noyou do n't . Kitty and her husband
DOLLY: Perhaps I 'll wait a year or two . Oh . . . love !
ANNA: Yes . . . love ! Do n't you disapprove of me fo what I 've done ?
DOLLY: No . I wish I 'd done the same . But no one asked me ! Well . . . I would n't have been ave enough . Stiva , you know . . . he does n't change . . . like all men , I suppose .
ANNUSHKA: Madame . . . Madame . . . Anna sits up .
ANNA: What time is it ? Is Anya up ?
ANNUSHKA: It 's afternoon , Madame .
ANNA: I 'm all right . It 's all right .
PAUSE: Get them to bring up all our trunks and travel cases . We 've been here long enough .
ANNA: I had an inspiration . Why do we have to wait here ? Why ca n't we wait in the coun- try ? I do n't want to hear any more about a divorce , or think about it .
VRONSKY: Good ! I 'm bored here . When should we go ?
ANNA: If I bore you here , I 'll bore you in the country .
VRONSKY: I did n't say you bore me . Moscow bores me . When should we go ? . . . Tomorrow ? But Anna 's mood has turned .
ANNA: I ca n't be ready by tomorrow .
VRONSKY: The day after , then .
ANNA: If you like .
VRONSKY: No , wait . That 's Sunday . I have to see Maman .
ANNA: That 's twenty minutes away in the train you could go to see her tomorrowor was it that you wanted to spend Sunday with Princess Sorokina ?
VRONSKY: Please do n't spoil everything . I ca n't see Maman tomorrow because she wo n't have ead the papers she has to sign . Oh , and then there 's the bank . . . But we can leave on Tuesday .
ANNA: In that case , let 's not bother . I 'll leave on Sunday or not at all .
VRONSKY: That 's absurd !
ANNA: It 's absurd to you because you have no understanding for my life here .
VRONSKY: Anna . . . Anna . . .
ANNA: You 've stopped loving me . You 've given up everything for me , and it 's turned you against me . Why lie about it ?
VRONSKY: Stop . I put off our departure for a day o two , and you tell me I do n't love you .
ANNA: Because I 've been living off your love and there 's none left , so this is over ! Finished . She leaves him , slamming the door .
VRONSKY: I 'll telegraph Maman . We 'll go on Sunday . I 'll do anything you want .
ANNA: You should leave me .
VRONSKY: I do n't want to . I love you .
ANNA: Why ?
VRONSKY: You ca n't ask why about love .
ANNA: Is that your way of telling me you 'll be at your mother 's with that simpering little princess ?
VRONSKY: No . I 'll be with my lawyers . I 'm waiting fo some documents . Then I 'm having dinne to say goodbye to old comrades .
ANNA: Well , I know what that means .
VRONSKY: My God , this is unendurable . He controls himself .
VRONSKY: I did n't show it to you , because Stiva keeps telegraphing what we already know . Kare- nin promises nothing , but will consider . . . Anna tosses the telegram aside unread .
ANNA: I told you I do n't care about the divorce , so why hide the telegram ? What else do you hide from me ?
VRONSKY: I hide nothing from you .
ANNA: Why do you care about the divorce ? What has it got to do with us loving each other ?
VRONSKY: Until we 're married , our daughter is legally Karenin 's . I care about it because we need to e free to marry .
ANNA: You 're perfectly free to marry anyone you mother wants .
VRONSKY: But we are n't talking about
ANNA: Yes , we are , and , by the way , compared to your mother I 'm the Virgin Mary .
VRONSKY: Is there anything you wish to say to me ?
ANNA: So it 's the child .
VRONSKY: She brought papers from Maman . He hesitates , thinking she is about to speak .
ANNA: Unpack everything . We 're not going .
ANNUSHKA: Anna Arkadyeva . . .
ANNA: When Count Vronsky comes back , tell him . . . I do n't want to be disturbed .
ANNA: Count Vronsky . . . ?
ANNUSHKA: He went out early , to the stables , he said . Anna collapses on a chair and weeps .
ANNA: Oh , Annushka . . . I should have died . Do you remember ?
ANNUSHKA: Do n't take it to heart , Anna Arkadyeva . . .
ANNA: I 've made him hate me .
MICHAEL: Count Vronsky had already left , Your Excel-
ANNA: Are you waiting for the Princess Sorokina ?
COACHMAN: No , Your Excellency , both princesses are at the house of Countess Vronsky . I 'm waiting
MAIDSERVANT: Look at that lace on her . . .
LEVIN: I 'll be buying in feed before winter 's over .
THEODORE: Well , you do n't press people hard , but you live rightly , for your soul , not your belly .
LEVIN: My soul ! What 's that ? I know what my elly is . How do we know what 's rightly ? I believe in reason .
THEODORE: Reason ? And was it reason that made you chose a wife ?
LEVIN: No .
THEODORE: You 're a great one for reasoning , Konstantin Dmitrich , but what 's rightly is outside you mathematicthat 's what 's rightly about it ! This stops Levin 's scythe . He is illumined .
LEVIN: Where 's Ekaterina Alexandrovna ?
AGAFIA: It 's all right , the mistress is giving Mitya his bath .
LEVIN: I came looking for you . . . I understood something . . .
KITTY: And what was that ?
LEVIN: He smiled at me .
UNCONSCIOUSLY ABSURD: He 's very advanced for his age .
ALVY: There 's an old joke . Uh , two elderly women are at a Catskills mountain esort , and one of 'em says `` Boy , the food at this place is really terrible . '' The other one says , `` Yeah , I know , and such small portions . '' Well , that 's essentially how I feel about life . Full of loneliness and misery and suffering and unhappiness , and it 's all over much too quickly . The-the other important joke for me is one that 's , uh , usually attributed to Groucho Marx , but I think it appears originally in Freud 's wit and its relation to the unconscious . And it goes like this-I 'm paraphrasing Uh `` I would never wan na belong to any clu that would have someone like me for a member . '' That 's the key joke of my adult life in terms of my relationships with women . Tsch , you know , lately the strangest things have been going through my mind , 'cause I turned forty , tsch , and I guess I 'm going through a life crisis or something , I do n't know . I , uh and I 'm not worried about aging . I 'm not one o ' those characters , you know . Although I 'm balding slightly on top , that 's about the worst you can say about me . I , uh , I think I 'm gon na get better as I get older , you know ? I think I 'm gon na be the- the balding virile type , you know , as opposed to say the , uh , distinguished gray , for instance , you know ? 'Less I 'm neither o ' those two . Unless I 'm one o ' those guys with saliva dribbling out of his mouth who wanders into a cafeteria with a shopping bag screaming about socialism . Annie and I broke up and I-I still ca n't get my mind around that . You know , I-I keep sifting the pieces of the relationship through my mind and-and examining my life and tryin ' to figure out where did the screw-up come , you know , and a year ago we were tsch , in love . You know , and-and-and And it 's funny , I 'm not-I 'm not a morose type . I 'm not a depressive character . I-I-I , uh , you know , I was a reasonably happy kid , I guess . I was brought up in Brooklyn during World War II .
MOTHER: He 's been depressed . All off a sudden , he ca n't do anything .
DOCTOR: Why are you depressed , Alvy ?
MOTHER: Tell Dr. Flicker . It 's something he read .
DOCTOR: Something he read , huh ?
ALVY: The universe is expanding .
DOCTOR: The universe is expanding ?
ALVY: Well , the universe is everything , and if it 's expanding , someday it will break apart and that would be the end of everything ! Disgusted , his mother looks at him .
MOTHER: What is that your business ? He stopped doing his homework .
ALVY: What 's the point ?
MOTHER: What has the universe got to do with it ? You 're here in Brooklyn ! Brooklyn is not expanding !
DOCTOR: It wo n't be expanding for billions of years yet , Alvy . And we 've got ta try to enjoy ourselves while we 're here . Uh ? He laughs .
ALVY'S VOICE: My analyst says I exaggerate my childhood memories , but I swear I was brought up underneath the roller-
IVAN: Seven and three is nine .
ALVY'S VOICE: Even then I knew they were just jerks . In nineteen forty-two I had already dis-
1ST GIRL: Ugh , he kissed me , he kissed me .
TEACHER: That 's the second time this month ! Step up here !
ALVY: What 'd I do ?
TEACHER: Step up here !
ALVY: What 'd I do ?
TEACHER: You should be ashamed of yourself .
1ST GIRL: For God 's sakes , Alvy , even Freud speaks of a latency period .
TEACHER: Why could n't you have been more like Donald ? Now , there was a model boy !
DONALD: I run a profitable dress company .
ALVY'S VOICE: Right . Sometimes I wonder where my classmates are today .
1ST BOY: I 'm president of the Pinkus Plumbing Company .
2ND BOY: I sell tallises .
3RD BOY: I used to be a heroin addict . Now I 'm a methadone addict .
2ND GIRL: I 'm into leather .
ALVY: I lost track of most of my old schoolmates , ut I wound up a comedian . They did not take me in the Army . I was , uh Interestingly enough , I was-I was four-P .
DICK CAVETT: Four-P ?
ALVY: Yes . In-in-in-in the event of war , I 'm a hostage .
MOTHER: You always only saw the worst in people . You never could get along with anyone at school . You were always outta step with the world . Even when you got famous , you still distrusted the world . '
ALVY: I distinctly heard it . He muttered unde his breath , `` Jew . ''
ROB: You 're crazy !
ALVY: No , I 'm not . We were walking off the tennis court , and you know , he was there and me and his wife , and he looked at he and then they both looked at me , and unde his breath he said , `` Jew . ''
ROB: Alvy , you 're a total paranoid .
ALVY: Wh- How am I a paran- ? Well , I pick up on those kind o ' things . You know , I was having lunch with some guys from NBC , so I said uh , `` Did you eat yet or what ? '' and Tom Christie said , `` No , didchoo ? '' Not , did you , didchoo eat ? Jew ? No , not did you eat , but Jew eat ? Jew . You get it ? Jew eat ?
ROB: Ah , Max , you , uh
ALVY: Stop calling me Max .
ROB: Why , Max ? It 's a good name for you . Max , you see conspiracies in everything .
ALVY: No , I do n't ! You know , I was in a record store . Listen to this -so I know there 's this big tall blond crew-cutted guy and he 's lookin ' at me in a funny way and smiling and he 's saying , `` Yes , we have a sale this week on Wagner . '' Wagner , Max , Wagner-so I know what he 's really tryin ' to tell me very significantly Wagner .
ROB: Right , Max . California , Max .
ALVY: Ah .
ROB: Let 's get the hell outta this crazy city .
ALVY: Forget it , Max .
ROB: -we move to sunny L.A. All of show business is out there , Max .
ALVY: No , I can not . You keep bringing it up , but I do n't wan na live in a city where the only cultural advantage is that you can make a ight turn on a red light .
ROB: Right , Max , forget it . Are n't you gon na be late for meeting Annie ?
ALVY: I 'm gon na meet her in front of the Beekman . I think I have a few minutes left . Right ?
1ST MAN: Hey , you on television ?
ALVY: No . Yeah , once in a while . You know , like occasionally .
1ST MAN: What 's your name ?
ALVY: You would n't know it . It does n't matter . What 's the difference ?
1ST MAN: You were on uh , the uh , the Johnny Carson , right ?
ALVY: Once in a while , you know . I mean , you know , every now-
1ST MAN: What 's your name ?
ALVY: I 'm I 'm , uh , I 'm Robert Redford .
1ST MAN: Come on .
ALVY: Alvy Singer . It was nice nice Thanks very much for everything .
1ST MAN: Hey !
2ND MAN: What ?
1ST MAN: This is Alvy Singer !
ALVY: Fellas you know-Jesus ! Come on !
1ST MAN: This guy 's on television ! Alvy Singer , right ? Am I right ?
ALVY: Gim me a break , will yuh , gim me a break . Jesus Christ !
1ST MAN: This guy 's on television .
ALVY: I need a large polo mallet !
2ND MAN: Who 's on television ?
1ST MAN: This guy , on the Johnny Carson show .
ALVY: Fellas , what is this-a meeting o ' the teamsters ? You know.. .
2ND MAN: What program ?
1ST MAN: Can I have your autograph ?
ALVY: You do n't want my autograph .
1ST MAN: Yeah , I do . It 's for my girl friend . Make it out to Ralph .
ALVY: Your girl friend 's name is Ralph ?
1ST MAN: It 's for my brudder . Alvy Singer ! Hey ! This is Alvy-
2ND MAN: You really Alvy Singer , the the TV star ?
1ST MAN: -Singer !
2ND MAN: Alvy Singer over here !
ALVY: I-i-i-i-it 's all right , fellas . Jesus , what 'd you do , come by way of the Panama Canal ?
ANNIE: Alright , alright , I 'm in a bad mood , okay ?
ALVY: Bad mood ? I 'm standing with the cast of `` The Godfather . ''
ANNIE: You 're gon na hafta learn to deal with it .
ALVY: Deal ! I 'm dealing with two guys named Cheech !
ANNIE: Okay . ( They move into the ticket line , still talking . A billboard next to them reads `` INGMAR BERGMAN 'S 'FACE
ALVY: Hey , you are in a bad mood . You-you- you must be getting your period .
ANNIE: I 'm not getting my period . Jesus , every time anything out of the ordinary happens , you think that I 'm getting my period !
ALVY: A li-little louder . I think one of them may have missed it ! H 'm , has the picture started yet ?
TICKET CLERK: It started two minutes ago .
ALVY: That 's it ! Forget it ! I-I ca n't go in .
ANNIE: Two minutes , Alvy .
ALVY: No , I 'm sorry , I ca n't do it . We-we 've lown it already . I-you know , uh , I-I ca n't go in in the middle .
ANNIE: In the middle ? We 'll only miss the titles . They 're in Swedish .
ALVY: You wan na get coffee for two hours o something ? We 'll go next-
ANNIE: Two hours ? No , u-uh , I 'm going in . I 'm going in . She moves past the ticket clerk .
ALVY: Go ahead . Good-bye . Annie moves back to Alvy and takes his arm .
ANNIE: Look , while we 're talking we could be inside , you know that ?
ALVY: Hey , can we not stand here and argue in front of everybody , 'cause I get embarrassed .
ANNIE: Alright . All right , all right , so whatta you wan na do ?
ALVY: I do n't know now . You-you wan na go to another movie ? So let 's go see The Sorrow and the Pity .
ANNIE: Oh , come on , we 've seen it . I 'm not in the mood to see a four-hour documentary on Nazis .
ALVY: Well , I 'm sorry , I-I ca n't I-I-I 've got ta see a picture exactly from the start to the finish , 'cause-'cause I 'm anal .
ANNIE: H ' h , that 's a polite word for what you are .
ALVY: I'm-I'm-I 'm gon na have a stroke .
ANNIE: Well , stop listening to him .
ALVY: He 's screaming his opinions in my ear .
ANNIE: I missed my therapy . I overslept .
ALVY: How can you possibly oversleep ?
ANNIE: The alarm clock .
ALVY: You know what a hostile gesture that is to me ?
ANNIE: I know-because of our sexual problem , ight ?
ALVY: Hey , you everybody in line at the New Yorker has to know our rate of intercourse ?
ANNIE: Stop it , Alvy !
ALVY: Well , he 's spitting on my neck ! You know , he 's spitting on my neck when he talks .
ANNIE: And you know something else ? You know , you 're so egocentric that if I miss my therapy you can think of it in terms of how it affects you !
ALVY: Probably on their first date , right ?
ANNIE: Oh !
ALVY: I-I-I mean , I 'm comparatively normal for a guy raised in Brooklyn .
ANNIE: Okay , I 'm very sorry . My sexual problem ! Okay , my sexual problem ! Huh ?
ALVY: I never read that . That was-that was Henry James , right ? Novel , uh , the sequel to Turn of the Screw ? My Sexual
MCLUHAN: I hear-I heard what you were saying . You-you know nothing of my work . You mean my whole fallacy is wrong . How you ever got to teach a course in anything is totally amazing .
ALVY: Boy , if life were only like this !
NARRATOR'S VOICE: June fourteenth , nineteen forty , the German army occupies Paris . All ove the country , people are desperate fo every available scrap of news .
ALVY: Boy , those guys in the French Resistance were really brave , you know ? Got to listen to Maurice Chevalier sing so much .
ANNIE: M 'm , I do n't know , sometimes I ask myself how I 'd stand up under torture .
ALVY: You ? You kiddin ' ? If the Gestapo would take away you Bloomingdale 's charge card , you 'd tell 'em everything .
ANNIE: That movie makes me feel guilty .
ALVY: Yeah , 'cause it 's supposed to .
ANNIE: Alvy , I
ALVY: What-what-what-what 's the matter ?
ANNIE: I-you know , I do n't wan na .
ALVY: What-what-I do n't It 's not natural ! We 're sleeping in a bed together . You know , it 's been a long time .
ANNIE: I know , well , it 's just that-you know , I mean , I-I-I-I got ta sing tomorrow night , so I have to rest my voice .
ALVY: It 's always some kind of an excuse . It's- You know , you used to think that I was very sexy . What When we first started going out , we had sex constantly We're- we 're probably listed in the Guinness Book of World Records .
ANNIE: I know . Well , Alvy , it 'll pass , it 'll pass , it 's just that I 'm going through a phase , that 's all .
ALVY: M 'm .
ANNIE: I mean , you 've been married before , you know how things can get . You were very hot for Allison at first .
ALLISON: Ma'am , you 're on right after this man about twenty minutes , something like that .
WOMAN: Oh , thank you .
ALVY: Excuse excuse me , when do I go on ?
ALLISON: Who are you ?
ALVY: Alvy Alvy Singer . I 'm a comedian .
ALLISON: Oh , comedian . Yes . Oh , uh you 're on next .
ALVY: What do you mean , next ?
ALLISON: Uh I mean you 're on right afte this act .
ALVY: No , it ca n't be , because he 's a comic .
ALLISON: Yes .
ALVY: So what are you telling me , you 're putting on two comics in a row ?
ALLISON: Why not ?
ALVY: No , I 'm sorry , I 'm not goin'- I ca n't I do n't wan na go on after that comedian .
ALLISON: It 's okay .
ALVY: No , because they're-they 're laughing , so I-I-I 'd rather not . If you do n't mind , I prefer-
ALLISON: Will you relax , please ? They 're gon na love you , I know .
ALVY: I prefer not to , because look , they 're laughing at him . See , so what are yuh telling me-
ALLISON: Yes .
ALVY: -that I 've got to ah ah They 're gon na laugh at him for a couple minutes , then I got ta go out there , I got ta get laughs , too . How much can they laugh ? They-they they 're laughed out .
ALLISON: Do you feel all right ?
COMEDIAN: You know
ALVY: Look , what 's your-what 's your name ?
COMEDIAN: General Eisenhower is not
ALLISON: Allison .
ALVY: Yeah ? Allison what ?
ALLISON: Portchnik .
COMEDIAN: a group from the
ALVY: Thank you . I-I do n't know why they would have me at this kind of rally 'cause Excuse me , I 'm not essentially a political comedian at all . The audience starts to laugh .
ALLISON: Well , I 'm getting tired of it . I need your attention .
ALVY: It-but it-it does n't make any sense . He drove past the book depository and the police said conclusively that it was an exit wound . So-how is it possible fo Oswald to have fired from two angles at once ? It does n't make sense .
ALLISON: Alvy .
ALVY: I 'll tell you this ! He was not marksman enough to hit a moving target at that ange . But if there was a second assassin it- That 's it !
ALLISON: We 've been through this .
ALVY: If they-they recovered the shells from that rifle .
ALLISON: Okay . All right , so whatta yuh saying , now ? That e-e-everybody o-o-on the Warren Commission is in on this conspiracy , right ?
ALVY: Well , why not ?
ALLISON: Yeah , Earl Warren ?
ALVY: Hey honey , I do n't know Earl Warren .
ALLISON: Lyndon Johnson ?
ALVY: L-L-Lyndon Johns Lyndon Johnson is a politician . You know the ethics those guys have ? It 's like-uh , a notch underneath child molester .
ALLISON: Then everybody 's in in the conspiracy ?
ALVY: Tsch .
ALLISON: The FBI , and the CIA , and J. Edga Hoover and oil companies and the Pentagon and the men's-room attendant at the White House ?
ALVY: I-I-I-I would leave out the men's-room attendant .
ALLISON: You 're using this conspiracy theory as an excuse to avoid sex with me .
ALVY: Oh , my God ! She 's right ! Why did I turn off Allison Portchnik ? She was-she was beautiful . She was willing . She was real intelligent . Is it the old Groucho Marx joke ? That-that I-I just do n't wan na belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member ?
ANNIE: Alvy , now do n't panic . Please .
ALVY: Look , I told you it was a mistake to ever bring a live thing in the house .
ANNIE: Stop it ! Do n't do n't do that ! There .
ALVY: Well , maybe we should just call the police . Dial nine-one-one , it 's the lobster squad .
ANNIE: Come on , Alvy , they 're only baby ones , fo God 's sake .
ALVY: If they 're only babies , then you pick 'em up .
ANNIE: Oh , all right . All right ! It 's all ight . Here .
ALVY: Do n't give it to me . Do n't !
ANNIE: Oooh ! Here ! Here !
ALVY: Look ! Look , one crawled behind the efrigerator . It 'll turn up in our bed at night . Will you get outta here with that thing ? Jesus !
ANNIE: Get him !
ALVY: Talk to him . You speak shellfish ! Hey , look put it in the pot .
ANNIE: I ca n't ! I ca n't put him in the pot . I ca n't put a live thing in hot water .
ALVY: Gim me ! Gim me ! Let me do it ! What-what 's he think we 're gon na do , take him to the movies ?
ANNIE: Oh , God ! Here yuh go ! Oh , good , now he 'll think- Aaaah ! Okay .
ALVY: Okay , it 's in . It 's definitely in the pot !
ANNIE: All right . All right . All right .
ALVY: Annie , there 's a big lobster behind the refrigerator . I ca n't get it out . This thing 's heavy . Maybe if I put a little dish of butter sauce here with a nutcracker , it will run out the othe side , you know what I mean ?
ANNIE: Yeah . I 'm gon na get my I 'm gon na get my camera .
ALVY: You know , I-I think if I could pry this door off We shoulda gotten steaks 'cause they do n't have legs . They do n't un around .
ANNIE: Great ! Great ! Goddammit ! Ooooh ! These are p-p-p-pick this lobster up . Hold it , please !
ALVY: All right ! All right ! All right ! All ight ! Whatta yuh mean ? Are yuh gon na take pictures now ?
ANNIE: It 'll make great- Alvy , be- Alvy , it 'll e wonderful Ooooh , lovely !
ALVY: All right , here ! Oh , God , it 's disgusting !
ANNIE: Do n't be a jerk . One more , Alvy , please , one more picture . Oh , oh , good , good !
ALVY: So , so-well , here 's what I wan na know . W-what Am I your first big romance ?
ANNIE: Oh no , no , no , no , uh , uh . No .
ALVY: Well , then , w-who was ?
ANNIE: Oh , well , let 's see , there was Dennis , from Chippewa Falls High School .
ALVY'S VOICE: Dennis-right , uh , uh local kid probably , would meetcha in front of the movie house on Saturday night .
ANNIE'S VOICE: Oh , God , you should 've seen what I looked like then .
ALVY'S VOICE: Oh , I can imagine . P-p-probably the wife of an astronaut .
ANNIE'S VOICE: Then there was Jerry , the actor .
ALVY'S VOICE: Look at you , you-you , -re such a clown .
ANNIE'S VOICE: I look pretty .
ALVY'S VOICE: Well , yeah , you always look pretty , but that guy with you
JERRY: Acting is like an exploration of the soul . I-it 's very religious . Uh , like , uh , a kind of liberating consciousness . It 's like a visual poem .
ALVY: Is he kidding with that crap ?
YOUNGER ANNIE: Oh , right . Right , yeah , I think I know exactly what you mean , when you say `` religious . ''
ALVY: You do ?
ANNIE: Oh , come on-I mean , I was still younger .
ALVY: Hey , that was last year .
JERRY: It 's like when I think of dying . You know how I would like to die ?
YOUNGER ANNIE: No , how ?
JERRY: I 'd like to get torn apart by wild animals .
ALVY'S VOICE: Heavy ! Eaten by some squirrels .
ANNIE'S VOICE: Hey , listen-I mean , he was a terrific actor , and look at him , he 's neat-looking and he was emotional Y-hey , I do n't think you like emotion too much .
JERRY: Touch my heart with your foot .
ALVY'S VOICE: I-I may throw up !
ANNIE: He was creepy .
ALVY: Yeah , I-I think you 're pretty lucky I came along .
ANNIE: Oh , really ? Well , la-de-da !
ALVY: La-de-da . If I-if anyone had ever told me that I would be taking out a girl who used expressions like `` la-de-da '' . . .
ANNIE: Oh , that 's right . That you really like those New York girls .
ALVY: Well , no not just , not only .
ANNIE: Oh , I 'd say so . You married-
ROBIN: There 's Henry Drucker . He has a chai in history at Princeton . Oh , the short man is Hershel Kaminsky . He has a chai in philosophy at Cornell .
ALVY: Yeah , two more chairs and they got a dining-room set .
ROBIN: Why are you so hostile ?
ALVY: 'Cause I wan na watch the Knicks on television .
ROBIN: Is that Paul Goodman ? No . And be nice to the host because he 's publishing my ook . Hi , Doug ! Douglas Wyatt . `` A Foul-Rag-and-Bone Shop-of-the-Heart . ''
ALVY: I 'm so tired of spending evenings making fake insights with people who work fo Dysentery .
ROBIN: Commentary .
ALVY: Oh , really , I heard that Commentary and Dissent had merged and formed Dysentery .
ROBIN: No jokes-these are friends , okay ?
TV ANNOUNCER: Cleveland Cavaliers losing to the New York Knicks . Robin enters the room , slamming the door .
ROBIN: Here you are . There 's people out there .
ALVY: Hey , you would n't believe this . Two minutes ago , the Knicks are ahead fourteen points , and now they 're ahead two points .
ROBIN: Alvy , what is so fascinating about a group of pituitary cases trying to stuff the all through a hoop ?
ALVY: What 's fascinating is that it 's physical . You know , it 's one thing about intellectuals ,
ROBIN: Stop acting out .
ALVY: No , it 'll be great ! It 'll be great , e-because all those Ph.D. 's are in there , you know , like discussing models of alienation and we 'll be in here quietly humping .
ROBIN: Alvy , do n't ! You 're using sex to express hostility .
ALVY: `` 'Why-why do you always r-reduce my animal urges to psychoanalytic categories ? ' he said as he removed her brassiere ''
ROBIN: There are people out there from The New Yorker magazine . My God ! What would they think ?
ALVY: Do n't get upset !
ROBIN: Dammit ! I was so close .
ALVY: Jesus , last night it was some guy honking his car horn . I mean , the city ca n't close down . You know , what-whatta yuh gon na do , h-have 'em shut down the airport , too ? No more flights so we can have sex ?
ROBIN: I 'm too tense . I need a Valium . My analyst says I should live in the country and not in New York .
ALVY: Well , I ca n't li- We ca n't have this discussion all the time . The country makes me nervous . There 's You got crickets and it-it 's quiet there 's no place to walk after dinner , and uh , there 's the screens with the dead moths ehind them , and uh , yuh got the-the Manson family possibly , yuh got Dick and Terry-
ROBIN: Okay , okay , my analyst just thinks I 'm too tense . Where 's the goddamn Valium ?
ALVY: Hey , come on , it 's quiet now . We can-we can start again .
ROBIN: I ca n't .
ALVY: What-
ROBIN: My head is throbbing .
ALVY: Oh , you got a headache !
ROBIN: I have a headache .
ALVY: Bad ?
ROBIN: Oswald and ghosts .
ALVY: Jesus ! He begins to get out of bed .
ROBIN: Where are you going ?
ALVY: Well , I'm-I 'm gon na take another in a series of cold showers .
ROB: Max , my serve is gon na send yuh to the showers-
ALVY: Right , right , so g-get back to what we were discussing , the failure of the country to get behind New York City is-is anti-Semitism .
ROB: Max , the city is terribly worried .
ALVY: But the- I 'm not discussing politics o economics . This is foreskin .
ROB: No , no , no , Max , that 's a very convenient out . Every time some group disagrees with you it 's because of anti-Semitism .
ALVY: Do n't you see ? The rest of the country looks upon New York like we're-we 're left-wing Communist , Jewish , homosexual , pornographers . I think of us that way , sometimes , and I-I live here .
ROB: Max , if we lived in California , we could play outdoors every day , in the sun .
ALVY: Sun is bad for yuh . Everything our parents said was good is bad . Sun , milk , red meat , college
ANNIE: I know , but ooh- here he comes . Okay .
ROB: You know Alvy ?
JANET: Oh , hi , Alvy .
ANNIE: How are yuh ?
ROB: You know Annie ?
JANET: I 'm sorry . This is Annie Hall .
ALVY: Hi .
ANNIE: Hi . Annie and Alvy shake hands .
JANET: Alvy .
ROB: Who 's playing who here ? Alvy Well , uh you and me against them ?
ANNIE: Well so I ca n't play too good , you know .
JANET: I 've had four lessons !
ALVY: Holy gods !
ANNIE: Hi . Hi , hi .
ALVY: Hi . Oh , hi . Hi .
ANNIE: Well , bye . She laughs and backs up slowly toward the door .
ALVY: You-you play very well .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah ? So do you . Oh , God , whatta- whatta dumb thing to say , right ? I mean , you say it , `` You play well , '' and right away I have to say well . Oh , oh God , Annie . Well oh , well la-de-da , la-de-da , la-la . She turns around and moves toward the door .
ALVY: Uh you-you wan na lift ?
ANNIE: Oh , why-uh y-y-you got ta car ?
ALVY: No , um I was gon na take a cab .
ANNIE: Oh , no , I have a car .
ALVY: You have a car ? So I do n't understand why if you have a car , so then-then wh-why did you say `` Do you have a car ? '' like you wanted a lift ?
ANNIE: I do n't I do n't Geez , I do n't know , I 've I wa- This yeah , I got this VW out there What a jerk , yeah . Would you like a lift ?
ALVY: Sure . W-w-w-which way yuh goin ' ?
ANNIE: Me ? Oh , downtown !
ALVY: Down- I'm-I 'm goin ' uptown .
ANNIE: Oh , well , I 'm goin ' uptown , too .
ALVY: Uh , well , you just said you were going downtown .
ANNIE: Yeah , well , I 'm , but I
ALVY: So sorry .
ANNIE: I mean , I can go uptown , too . I live uptown , but uh , what the hell , I mean , it 'd be nice having company , you know I mean , I hate driving alone .
ALVY: Yeah . They walk out the door .
ANNIE: Oh , I 'm in her acting class .
ALVY: Oh - you 're an actress .
ANNIE: Well , I do commercials , sort of
ALVY: I , uh well , you 're not from New York , right ?
ANNIE: No , Chippewa Falls .
ALVY: Right ! Where ?
ANNIE: Wisconsin .
ALVY: Uh , you 're driving a-
ANNIE: Uh , do n't worry , I 'm a very- -a very good driver . So , listen-hey , you want some gum , anyway ?
ALVY: No , no thanks . Hey , don't-
ANNIE: Well , where is it ? I-
ALVY: No , no , no , no , you just just watch the road . I 'll get it-
ANNIE: Okay .
ALVY: -for yuh .
ANNIE: Okay , that 's good .
ALVY: I 'll getcha a piece .
ANNIE: Yeah so , listen-you drive ?
ALVY: Do I drive ? Uh , no , I got ta -I got ta problem with driving .
ANNIE: Oh , you do ?
ALVY: Yeah . I got , uh , I got a license but I have too much hostility .
ANNIE: Oh , right .
ALVY: Nice car .
ANNIE: Huh ?
ALVY: You keep it nice . Can I ask you , is this-is this a sandwich ?
ANNIE: Huh ? Oh , yeah .
ALVY: That 's okay , you we-we can walk to the curb from here .
ANNIE: Do n't be funny .
ALVY: You want your tennis stuff ?
ANNIE: Huh ? Oh yeah .
ALVY: You want your gear ? Here you go .
ANNIE: Yeah , thanks . Thanks a lot . Well
ALVY: Well , thanks , thank you . You-you 're a wonderful tennis player .
ANNIE: Oh . Alvy shakes hands with Annie .
ALVY: You 're the worst driver I 've ever seen in my life . . . that 's including any place the worst Europe , United any place Asia .
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: And I love what you 're wearin ' .
ANNIE: Oh , you do ? Yeah ? Oh , well , it 's uh this is , uh this tie is a present , from Grammy Hall . Annie flips the bottom of the tie .
ALVY: Who ? Grammy ? Grammy Hall ?
ANNIE: Yeah , my grammy .
ALVY: You 're jo- Whatta yuh kid- What did you do , grow up in a Norman Rockwell painting ?
ANNIE: Yeah , I know .
ALVY: Your grammy !
ANNIE: I know , it 's pretty silly , is n't it ?
ALVY: Jesus , my-my grammy n-never gave gifts , you know . She-she was too busy getting raped by Cossacks .
ANNIE: Well
ALVY: Well thank you again .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah , yeah .
ALVY: I 'll see yuh .
ANNIE: Hey , well , listen hey , you wan na come upstairs and , uh and have a glass of wine and something ? Aw , no , I mean I mean , you do n't have to , you 're probably late and everything else
ALVY: No , no , that 'll be fine . I do n't mind . Sure .
ANNIE: You sure ?
ALVY: No , I got time .
ANNIE: Okay .
ALVY: Sure , I got I got nothing , uh , nothing till my analyst 's appointment . They move toward Annie 's apartment building .
ANNIE: Oh , you see an analyst ?
ALVY: Y-y-yeah , just for fifteen years .
ANNIE: Fifteen years ?
ALVY: Yeah , uh , I 'm gon na give him one more year and then I 'm goin ' to Lourdes .
ANNIE: Fifteen-aw , come on , you 're . . . yeah , eally ?
ALVY: Sylvia Plath .
ANNIE: M'hm
ALVY: Interesting poetess whose tragic suicide was misinterpreted as romantic , by the college-girl mentality .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah .
ALVY: Oh , sorry .
ANNIE: Right . Well , I do n't know , I mean , uh , some of her poems seem - neat , you know .
ALVY: Neat ?
ANNIE: Neat , yeah .
ALVY: Uh , I hate to tell yuh , this is nineteen seventy-five , you know that `` neat '' went out , I would say , at the turn of the century . Who-who are-who are those photos on the wall ?
ANNIE: Oh oh , well , you see now now , uh , that 's my dad , that 's Father-and that 's my brother , Duane .
ALVY: Duane ?
ANNIE: Yeah , right , Duane-and over there is Grammy Hall , and that 's Sadie .
ALVY: Well , who 's Sadie ?
ANNIE: Sadie ? Oh , well , Sadie Sadie met Grammy through , uh , through Grammy 's brother George . Uh , George was eal sweet , you know , he had that thing . What is that thing where you , uh , where you , uh , fall asleep in the middle of a sentence , you know-what is it ? Uh
ALVY: Uh , narcolepsy .
ANNIE: Narcolepsy , right , right . Right . So , anyway , so George , uh , went to the union , see , to get his free turkey , be-because , uh , the union always gave George this big turkey at Christmas time because he was shell-shocked , you know what I mean , in the First World War . Anyway , so , so George is standing in line , oh , just a sec uh , getting his free turkey , but the thing is , he falls asleep and he neve wakes up . So , so so , he 's dead he 's dead . Yeah . Oh , dear . Well , terrible , huh , would n't you say ? I mean , that 's pretty unfortunate .
ALVY: Yeah , it 's a great story , though , I mean , I I it really made my day . Hey , I think I should get outta here , you know , 'cause I think I 'm imposing , you know
ANNIE: Oh , really ? Oh , well uh , uh , maybe , uh , maybe , we , uh
ALVY: and uh , yeah , uh uh , you know , I-I-I
ANNIE: Well , I mean , you do n't have to , you know .
ALVY: No , I know , but but , you know , I 'm all perspired and everything .
ANNIE: Well , did n't you take , uh uh , a shower at the club ?
ALVY: Me ? No , no , no , 'cause I never showe in a public place .
ANNIE: Why not ?
ALVY: 'Cause I do n't like to get naked in front of another man , you know-it 's , uh
ANNIE: Oh , I see , I see .
ALVY: You know , I do n't like to show my body to a man of my gender-
ANNIE: Yeah . Oh , yeah . Yeah , I see . I guess-
ALVY: -'cause , uh , you never know what 's gon na happen .
ANNIE: Fifteen years , huh ?
ALVY: Fifteen years , yeah .
ANNIE: Yeah . Oh , God bless ! They put their glasses together in a toast .
ALVY: God bless .
ANNIE: Well , uh You 're what Grammy Hall would call a eal Jew .
ALVY: Oh , thank you .
ANNIE: Yeah , well you-She hates Jews . She thinks that they just make money , but let me tell yuh , I mean , she 's the one yeah , is she ever . I 'm tellin ' yuh .
ALVY: So , did you do shoot the photographs in there or what ?
ANNIE: Yeah , yeah , I sorta dabble around , you know .
ALVY: They 're they 're they 're wonderful , you know . They have they have , uh a a quality .
ANNIE: Well , I-I-I would-I would like to take a serious photography course soon .
ALVY: Photography 's interesting , 'cause , you know , it's-it 's a new art form , and a , uh , a set of aesthetic criteria have not emerged yet .
ANNIE: Aesthetic criteria ? You mean , whethe it 's , uh , good photo or not ? I 'm not smart enough for him . Hang in there
ALVY: The-the medium enters in as a condition of the art form itself . That's-
ANNIE: Well , well , I to me-I I mean , it's-it's-it 's all instinctive , you know . I mean , I just try to uh , feel it , you know ? I try to get a sense of it and not think about it so much .
ALVY: Still , still we- You need a set of aesthetic guide lines to put it in social perspective , I think . Christ , I sound like FM radio . Relax
ANNIE: Well , I do n't know . I mean , I guess-I guess you must be sorta late , huh ?
ALVY: You know , I got ta get there and begin whining soon otherwise I- Hey well , are you busy Friday night ?
ANNIE: Me ? Oh , uh . No .
ALVY: Oh , I 'm sorry , wait a minute , I have something . Well , what about Saturday night ?
ANNIE: Oh nothing . Not-no , no !
ALVY: Oh , you you 're very popular , I can see .
ANNIE: I know .
ALVY: Gee , boy , what do you have ? You have plague ?
ANNIE: Well , I mean , I meet a lot of jerks , you know-
ALVY: Yeah , I meet a lotta jerks , too .
ANNIE: -what I mean ?
ALVY: I think that 's , uh-
ANNIE: But I 'm thinking about getting some cats , you know , and then they Oh , wait a second-oh , no , no , I mean oh , shoot ! No , Saturday night I 'm gon na - gon na sing . Yeah .
ALVY: You 're gon na sing ? Do you sing ? Well , no , it is n't No kidding ? -this is my first time . Oh , really ? Where ? I 'd like to come . Oh , no , no , no , no , no ! No , I 'm interested !
ANNIE: Oh , no-I mean , I 'm just a-auditioning sort of at club . I don't-
ALVY: No , so help me .
ANNIE: -it 's my first time .
ALVY: That 's okay , 'cause I know exactly what that 's like . Listen-
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: -you 're gon na like night clubs , they 're eally a lotta fun .
ANNIE: I was awful . I 'm so ashamed ! I ca n't sing .
ALVY: Oh , listen , so the audience was a tad estless .
ANNIE: Whatta you mean , a tad restless ? Oh , my God , I mean , they hated me .
ALVY: No , they did n't . You have a wonderful voice .
ANNIE: No , I 'm gon na quit !
ALVY: No , I 'm not gon na letcha . You have a great voice .
ANNIE: Really , do you think so , really ?
ALVY: Yeah !
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: It 's terrific .
ANNIE: Yeah , you know something ? I never even took a lesson , either .
ALVY: Hey , listen , listen .
ANNIE: What ?
ALVY: Gim me a kiss .
ANNIE: Really ?
ALVY: Yeah , why not , because we 're just gon na go home later , right ?
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: And-and uh , there 's gon na be all that tension . You know , we never kissed before and I 'll never know when to make the right move or anything . So we 'll kiss now we 'll get it over with and then we 'll go eat . Okay ?
ANNIE: Oh , all right .
ALVY: And we 'll digest our food better .
ANNIE: Okay .
ALVY: Okay ?
ANNIE: Yeah . They kiss .
ALVY: So now we can digest our food . They turn and start walking again .
ANNIE: We can digest our-
ALVY: Okay . Yeah .
ANNIE: Yeah oh , uh , and I 'm gon na have a pastrami on white bread with , uh , mayonnaise and tomatoes and lettuce . Tsch , so , uh , your second wife left you and , uh , were you depressed about that ?
ALVY: Nothing that a few mega-vitamins could n't cure .
ANNIE: Oh . And your first wife was Allison ?
ALVY: My first Yes , she was nice , but you know , uh , it was my fault . I was just I was too crazy .
ANNIE: Oh .
ALVY: As Balzac said
ANNIE: H 'm ?
ALVY: `` There goes another novel . '' Jesus , you were great .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah ?
ALVY: Yeah .
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: Yeah , I'm-I'm-I 'm a wreck .
ANNIE: No . You 're a wreck .
ALVY: Really . I mean it . I-I 'll never play the piano again .
ANNIE: You 're really nuts . I do n't know , you eally thought it was good ? Tell me .
ALVY: Good ? I was-
ANNIE: No .
ALVY: No , that was the most fun I 've eve had without laughing .
ANNIE: Here , you want some ?
ALVY: No , no , I-I-i , uh , I do n't use any major hallucinogenics because I took a puff like five years ago at a party and
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: -tried to take my pants off over my head my ear .
ANNIE: Oh , I do n't know , I do n't really . I do n't do it very often , you know , just sort of , er relaxes me at first .
ALVY: M'hm . You 're not gon na believe this , but-
ANNIE: What ? What ?
ALVY: Hey ?
ANNIE: H 'm ?
ALVY: I-I-I 'm gon na buy you these books , I think , because I-I think you should ead them . You know , instead of that cat book .
ANNIE: That 's , uh that 's pretty serious stuff there .
ALVY: Yeah , 'cause I-I 'm , you know , I 'm , I 'm obsessed with-with , uh , with death , I think . Big-
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: -big subject with me , yeah .
ANNIE: Yeah ? They move over to the cashier line .
ALVY: I 've a very pessimistic view of life . You should know this about me if we 're gon na go out , you know . I-I-I feel that life is-is divided up into the horrible and the miserable .
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: Those are the two categories
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: you know , they're- The-the horrible would be like , uh , I do n't know , terminal cases , you know ?
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: And blind people , crippled
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: I don't-do n't know how they get through life . It 's amazing to me .
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: You know , and the miserable is everyone else . That's-that 's all . So-so when you go through life you should be thankful that you 're miserable , because that's- You 're very lucky to be to be miserable .
ANNIE: U-huh .
ALVY: Look , look at that guy .
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: There's-there's-there's-there 's Mr. When-in-the-Pink , Mr. Miami Beach , there , you know ? He 's the latest ! just came back from the gin-rummy farm last night . He placed third .
ANNIE: M'hm . Yeah . Yeah .
ALVY: Look at these guys .
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: Oh , that 's hilarious . They 're back from Fire Island . They 're they 're sort of giving it a chance-you know what I mean ?
ANNIE: Oh ! Italian , right ?
ALVY: Yeah , he 's the Mafia . Linen Supply Business or Cement and Contract , you know what I mean ?
ANNIE: Oh , yeah .
ALVY: No , I 'm serious . I just got my mustache wet .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah ?
ALVY: And there 's the winner of the Truman Capote look-alike contest .
ANNIE: You see , like you and I
ALVY: You are extremely sexy .
ANNIE: No , I 'm not .
ALVY: Unbelievably sexy . Yes , you are . Because you know what you are ? You're-you 're polymorphously perverse .
ANNIE: Well , what does-what does that mean ? I do n't know what that is .
ALVY: Uh uh , you're-you 're exceptional in bed because you got -you get pleasure in every part of your body when I touch you .
ANNIE: Ooooh !
ALVY: You know what I mean ? Like the tip o'your nose , and if I stroke your teeth or your kneecaps you get excited .
ANNIE: Come on . Yeah . You know what ? You know , I like you , I really mean it . I really do like you .
ALVY: You- Do you love me ?
ANNIE: Do I love you ?
ALVY: That 's the key question .
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: I know you 've only known me a short while .
ANNIE: Well , I certainly I think that 's very- Yeah , yeah yeah . Do you love me ?
ALVY: I-uh , love is , uh , is too weak a word for what
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: - I I love you . You know I lo-ove you , I-I love you . I-I have to invent- Of course I love you .
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: Do n't you think I do ?
ANNIE: I dunno .
ALVY: Whatta you mean ? You 're not gon na give up your own apartment , are you ?
ANNIE: Of course .
ALVY: Yeah , bu-bu-but why ?
ANNIE: Well , I mean , I 'm moving in with you , that 's why .
ALVY: Yeah , but you-you got a nice apartment .
ANNIE: I have a tiny apartment .
ALVY: Yeah , I know it 's small .
ANNIE: That 's right , and it 's got bad plumbing and bugs .
ALVY: All right , granted , it has bad plumbing and bugs , but you-you say that like it 's a negative thing . You know , bugs are-are-uh , entomology is a rapidly growing field .
ANNIE: You do n't want me to live with you ?
ALVY: How- I do n't want you to live with me ? How- Whose idea was it ?
ANNIE: Mine .
ALVY: Ye-ah . Was it It was yours actually , ut , uh , I approved it immediately .
ANNIE: I guess you think that I talked you into something , huh ?
ALVY: No-what , what ? I we live together , we sleep together , we eat together . Jesus , you do n't want it to be like we 're married , do yuh ?
ANNIE: How is it any different ?
ALVY: It 's different 'cause you keep your own apartment . Because you know it 's there , we do n't have to go to it , we do n't have to deal with it , but it 's like a-a-a free-floating life raft that we know that we 're not married .
ANNIE: That little apartment is four hundred dollars a month , Alvy .
ALVY: That place is four hundred dollars a month ?
ANNIE: Yes , it is .
ALVY: It's-it 's got bad plumbing and bugs . Jesus , I'll-My accountant will write it off as a tax deduction , I 'll pay for it .
ANNIE: You do n't think I 'm smart enough to be serious about .
ALVY: Hey , do n't be ridiculous .
ANNIE: Then why are you always pushing me to take those college courses like I was dumb o something ?
ALVY: 'Cause adult education 's a wonderful thing . You meet a lotta interesting professors . You know , it 's stimulating .
ANNIE: Does this sound like a good course ? Uh , `` Modern American Poetry '' ? Uh , or , uh-let 's see now maybe I should , uh , take `` Introduction to the Novel . ''
ALVY: Just do n't take any course where they make you read Beowulf .
ANNIE: What ? Hey , listen , what-what do you think ? Do you think we should , uh , go to that-that party in Southampton tonight ? Alvy leans over and kisses her shoulder .
ALVY: No , do n't be silly . What-what do we need other people for ? You know , we should-we should just turn out the lights , you know , and play hide and seek or something .
ANNIE: Well , okay . Well , listen , I 'm gon na get a cigarette , okay ?
ALVY: Yeah , grass , right ? The illusion that it will make a white woman more like Billie Holiday .
ANNIE: Well , have you ever made love high ?
ALVY: Me , no . You I-I-you know , if I have grass or alcohol or anything I get unbearably wonderful . I get too , too wonderful for words . You know , I don't-I do n't know why you have to , uh , get high every time we make love .
ANNIE: It relaxes me .
ALVY: Oh , you-you have to be artificially elaxed before we can go to bed ?
ANNIE: Well , what 's the difference , anyway ?
ALVY: Well , I 'll give you a shot of sodium pentothal . You can sleep through it .
ANNIE: Oh , come on , look who 's talking . You 've een seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years . You should smoke some o ' this . You 'd be off the couch in no time .
ALVY: Oh , come , you do n't need that .
ANNIE: What are you doing ?
ALVY: No , no , no , what You can once , you can live without it once . Come on .
ANNIE: Oh , no , Alvy , please . Alvy , please . M'mrnm .
ALVY: M 'm , wait , I got a great idea . Hang in there for a second . I got a little-little artifact . A little erotic artifact , that-that I brought up from the city , which I think , uh , is gon na be perfect . I just there There 's a little Old New Orleans essence . Now-now we can go about our business here and we can even develop photographs if we want to . There , now there . M'mmm . M'mmm . Hey , is something wrong ?
ALVY: I do n't know . You- It 's like you're- you 're removed .
ANNIE: No , I 'm fine .
ALVY: Really ?
ANNIE: U-huh .
ALVY: I do n't know , but you seem sort of distant .
ANNIE: Let 's just do it , all right ?
ALVY: Is it my imagination or are you just going through the motions ?
ANNIE'S SPIRIT: Alvy , do you remember where I put my drawing pad ? Because while you two are doing that , I think I 'm gon na do some drawing .
ALVY: You see , that 's what I call removed .
ANNIE: Oh , you have my body .
ALVY: Yeah , but that 's not-that 's no good . I want the whole thing .
ANNIE: Well , I need grass and so do you .
ALVY: Well , it ruins it for me if you have grass ecause , you know , I 'm , like , a comedian-
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: -so if I get a laugh from a person who 's high , it does n't count . You know-'cause they 're always laughin ' .
ANNIE: Were you always funny ?
ALVY: Hey , what is this-an interview ? We 're supposed to be making love .
AGENT: This guy is naturally funny . I think he can write for you .
COMIC: Yeah , yeah . Hey , kid , he tells me you 're eally good . Well , lem me explain a little it o ' how I work . You know , you can tell ight off the bat that I do n't look like a funny guy when I come-you know , like some o ' the guys that come out . You know , right away they 're gon na tell yuh their stories , you 're gon na fall down , but I got ta be really talented . Material 's got ta be sensational for me 'cause I work , you know , with very , very Come on , I 'm kinda classy , you know what I mean ? Uh uh lem me explain . For instance , I open with an opening song . A musical start like and I walk out `` Place looks wonderful from here and you folks look wonderful from here ! `` And seein ' you there With a smile on your face Makes me shout This must be the place . '' Then I stop right in the middle and then I open with some jokes . Now , that 's where I need you , right there . For instance , like I say , `` Hey , I just got back from Canada , you know , they speak a lotta French up there . The only way to remember Jeanne d'Arc means the light 's out in the bathroom ! '' `` Oh , I met a big lumberjack ``
ALVY'S VOICE: Jesus , this guy 's pathetic .
COMIC: big lumberjack
ALVY'S VOICE: Look at him mincing around , like he thinks he 's real cute . You wan na throw up . If only I had the nerve to do my own jokes . I do n't know how much longe I can keep this smile frozen on my face . I 'm in the wrong business , I know it .
COMIC: `` 'Cherie , come back . I love you . But , uh , Cheri , what will I do with this , uh ? ' He says , 'Aw , Marie , sometime you make me so mad . '' ' Oh , they scream at that . Now , write me somethin ' like that , will yuh ? Kinda French number , can yuh do it ? Huh , kid ?
ALVY: W-where am I ? I-I keep I have to eorient myself . This is the University of Wisconsin , right ? So I 'm always I 'm tense and uh , when I 'm playin ' a col- I 've a very bad history with colleges . You know , I went to New York University and , uh , tsch , I was thrown out of NYU my freshman
ANNIE: Alvy , you were Alvy , you were just great , I 'm not kidding . It was- You were so neat .
ALVY: C-c-coll- College audiences are so wonderful .
ANNIE: Yeah . Yeah . And you know something ? I think that I 'm starting to get more of your references , too .
ALVY: Are yuh ?
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: Well , the twelve o'clock show is completely different than the nine .
YOUNG WOMAN: May I have your autograph ?
ANNIE: Oh .
ALVY: You 're so sure about it .
ANNIE: Oh , I 'm really , uh , looking forward to tomorrow . I mean , you know , I think that it 'll be really nice to meet Mother and Father .
ALVY: Yeah , I know , they 'll hate me immediately . Thank you .
ANNIE: No , I do n't think so . No , I do n't think they 're gon na hate you at all . On the contrary , I think-
ALVY: Yeah .
ANNIE: It 's Easter . You know , we 'll have a nice dinner , we 'll sit down and eat . I think they 're gon na really like you .
MOM HALL: It 's a nice ham this year , Mom . Grammy Hall takes a sip of her wine and nods .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah . Grammy always does such a good job .
DAD HALL: A great sauce .
ALVY: It is . It 's dynamite ham .
MOM HALL: We went over to the swap meet . Annie , Gram and I . Got some nice picture frames .
ANNIE: We really had a good time .
MOM HALL: Ann tells us that you 've been seeing a psychiatrist for fifteen years .
ALVY: Yes . I 'm making excellent progress . Pretty soon when I lie down on his couch , I wo n't have to wear the lobster bib .
DAD HALL: Duane and I went out to the boat basin .
DUANE: We were caulkin ' holes all day .
DAD HALL: Yeah . Randolph Hunt was drunk , as usual .
MOM HALL: Oh , that Randolph Hunt . You remembe Randy Hunt , Annie . He was in the choi with you .
ANNIE: Oh , yes , yes .
ALVY: I ca n't believe this family . Annie 's mother . She really 's beautiful . And they 're talkin ' swap meets and boat asins , and the old lady at the end of the table is a classic Jew hater . And , uh , they , they realty look American , you know , very healthy and like they neve get sick or anything . Nothing like my family . You know , the two are like oil and water .
ALVY'S FATHER: Let 'im drop dead ! Who needs his usiness ? !
ALVY'S MOTHER: His wife has diabetes !
ALVY'S FATHER: Di-diabetes ? Is that any excuse ? Diabetes ?
ALVY'S UNCLE: The man is fifty years old and does n't have a substantial job .
ALVY'S AUNT: Is that a reason to steal from his father ?
ALVY'S UNCLE: Whatta you talkin ' about ? You do n't know what you 're talking about .
ALVY'S AUNT: Yes , I know what I 'm talking about .
ALVY'S MOTHER: George , defend him !
ALVY'S UNCLE: No Moskowitz he had a coronary .
ALVY'S AUNT: You do n't say .
ALVY'S MOTHER: We fast .
MOM HALL: Stupid Thelma Poindexter to the Veterans Hospital .
DAD HALL: My God , he 's the new president of the El Regis . Let me tell you , the man is somethin ' else .
MOM HALL: That 's Jack 's wife . We used to make that outta raisins .
ANNIE: Oh , yes , that 's right . Did you see the new play ?
MOM HALL: Oh , you remember her , Annie .
ANNIE: Yes , I do .
MOM HALL: How do you plan to spend the holidays , Mrs. Singer ?
DAD HALL: Fast ?
ALVY'S FATHER: Yeah , no food . You know , we have to atone for our sins .
MOM HALL: What sins ? I do n't understand .
ALVY'S FATHER: Tell you the truth , neither do we .
DUANE: Alvy .
ALVY: Oh , hi , Duane , how 's it goin ' ?
DUANE: This is my room .
ALVY: Oh , yeah ? Terrific .
DUANE: Can I confess something ?
ALVY: Right . Tsch , well , I have to-I have t-o go now , Duane , because I-I 'm due ack on the planet earth . He slowly gets up and moves toward the door .
MOM HALL: Now , do n't let it be so long , now .
ANNIE: No .
DAD HALL: And look up Uncle Bill , you promise .
ANNIE: Okay . Okay .
MOM HALL: Oh , he 's adorable , Annie .
ANNIE: You think so ? Do you really ?
MOM HALL: We 're going to take them to the airport .
DAD HALL: Oh , no-Duane can . I have n't finished my drink .
ANNIE: Yes , Duane is . I 'll be right-
MOM HALL: M'mmm .
ANNIE: I just have time to get the , uh-
ALVY: I did n't follow you !
ANNIE: You followed me !
ALVY: Why ? 'Cause I was walkin ' along a block behind you staring at you ? That 's not following !
ANNIE: Well , what is your definition of following ?
ALVY: Following is different . I was spying .
ANNIE: Do you realize how paranoid you are ?
ALVY: Paranoid ? I 'm looking at you . You got your arms around another guy .
ANNIE: That is the worst kind of paranoia .
ALVY: Yeah-well , I did n't start out spying . I-I thought I 'd surprise yuh . Pick you up after school .
ANNIE: Yeah-well , you wanted to keep the elationship flexible , remember ? It 's your phrase .
ALVY: Oh , stop it . But you were having an affair with your college professor . That jerk that teaches that incredible crap course `` Contemporary Crisis in Western Man '' !
ANNIE: `` Existential Motifs in Russian Literature '' ! You 're really close .
ALVY: What 's the difference ? It 's all mental masturbation .
ANNIE: Oh , well , now we 're finally getting to a subject you know something about ! She walks away .
ALVY: Hey , do n't knock masturbation ! It 's sex with someone I love .
ANNIE: We 're not having an affair . He 's married . He just happens to think I 'm neat .
ALVY: `` Neat '' ! There 's that- What are you-twelve years old ? That 's one o ' your Chippewa Falls expressions ! `` He thinks I 'm neat . ''
ANNIE: Who cares ? Who cares ?
ALVY: Next thing you know he 'll find you keen and peachy , you know ? Next thing you know he 's got his hand on your ass ! They both stop in the middle of the street .
ANNIE: You 've always had hostility toward David ever since I mentioned him !
ALVY: David ? You call your teacher David ?
ANNIE: It 's his name .
ALVY: Well , listen , that 's , a nice bi-it 's a biblical name . Right ? W-What does he call you ? Bathsheba ? He walks away .
ANNIE: Alvy ! Alvy ! You 're the one who neve wanted to make a real commitment . You do n't think I 'm smart enough ! We had that argument just last month , or do n't ou remember that day ?
ALVY: Oh , yeah ? How 'd it go ?
ANNIE: Oh , it was eally weird . But she 's a very nice woman .
ALVY: Yeah ?
ANNIE: And I did n't have to lie down on the couch , Alvy , she had me sitting up . So I told he about-about the-the family and about my feelings toward men and about my elationship with my brother .
ALVY: M 'm .
ANNIE: And then she mentioned penis envy Did you know about that ?
ALVY: Me ? I'm-I 'm one of the few males who suffers from that , so , so you know .
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: G-go on , I 'm interested .
ANNIE: Well , she said that I was very guilty about my impulses toward marriage , and-and children .
ALVY: M'hm .
ANNIE: And then I remembered when I was a kid how I accidentally saw my parents making love .
ALVY: Tsch . Rea- All this happened in the first hour ?
ANNIE: M'hm .
ALVY: That 's amazing . I-I-I I 've been goin ' for fifteen years , I-you know , I do n't got nothing like that in-
ANNIE: Oh , I told her my dream and then I cried .
ALVY: You cried ? I 've never once cried . Fantastic
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: I whine . I-I-I sit and I whine .
ANNIE: In-in Alvy , in my dream Frank Sinatra is holding his pillow across my face and I ca n't breathe .
ALVY: Sinatra ?
ANNIE: Yeah , and he 's strangling me
ALVY: Yeah ?
ANNIE: and I keep , you know , it's-
ALVY: Well , well , sure because he 's a singer and you 're a singer , you know , so it 's perfect . So you 're trying to suffocate yourself . It-it makes perfect sense . Uh , uh , that 's a perfect analytic kind of insight .
ANNIE: She said , your name was Alvy Singer .
ALVY: Whatta you mean ? Me ?
ANNIE: Yeah , yeah , yeah , you . Because in the dream I break Sinatra 's glasses .
ALVY: Sinatra had gl- You never said Sinatra had glasses . So whatta you saying that I-I 'm suffocating you ?
ANNIE: Oh , and God , Alvy , I did this really terrible thing to him . Because then when he sang it was in this real high-pitched voice .
ALVY: Tsch , what 'd the doctor say ?
ANNIE: Well , she said that I should probably come five times a week . And you know something ? I do n't think I mind analysis at all . The only question is , Will it change my wife ?
ALVY: Will it change your wife ?
ANNIE: Will it change my life ?
ALVY: Yeah , but you said , `` Will it change my wife '' !
ANNIE: No , I did n't . I said , `` Will it change my life , '' Alvy .
ALVY: You said , `` Will it change . . . '' Wife . Will it change
ANNIE: Life . I said , `` life . '' Alvy turns toward the camera .
ALVY: She said , `` Will it change my wife . '' You heard that because you were there so I 'm not crazy .
ANNIE: And , Alvy and then I told her about how I did n't think you 'd ever really take me seriously , because you do n't think that I 'm smart enough . She walks out of the room .
ALVY: Why do you always bring that up ? Because I encourage you to take adult-education courses ? I think it 's a wonderful thing . You meet wonderful , interesting professors ' .
ANNIE: A bit rapidly . I do n't care what you say about David , he 's a perfectly fine teacher !
ALVY: David ! David ! I ca n't believe this !
ANNIE: And what are you doing following me around for , anyway ?
ALVY: I 'm following you and David , if you-
ANNIE: I just think we oughta call this elationship quits !
ALVY: That 's fine . That 's fine . That 's great ! Well , I do n't know what I did wrong . I mean , I ca n't believe this . Somewhere she cooled off to me ! Is it-is it something that I did ?
YOUNG WOMAN: Yeah .
ALVY: Yeah ! So so h-h-how do you account for it ?
YOUNG WOMAN: Uh , I 'm very shallow and empty and I have no ideas and nothing interesting to say .
YOUNG MAN: And I 'm exactly the same way .
ALVY: I see . Well , that 's very interesting . So you 've managed to work out something , huh ?
YOUNG MAN: Right .
YOUNG WOMAN: Yeah .
ALVY: Oh , well , thanks very much for talking to me .
WICKED QUEEN: We never have any fun anymore .
FEMALE REPORTER: I think there are more people here to see the Maharishi than there were to see the Dylan concert . I covered the Dylan concert which gave me chills . Especially when he sang `` She takes just like a woman And she makes love just like a woman Yes , she does And she aches just like a woman But she breaks just like a little girl . '' Up to that I guess the most charismatic event I covered was Mick 's Birthday when the Stones played Madison Square Garden .
ALVY: Man , that 's great . That 's just great .
REPORTER: You catch Dylan ?
ALVY: Me ? No , no . I-I could n't make it that ni- My-my raccoon had hepatitis .
REPORTER: You have a raccoon ?
ALVY: Tsch , a few .
REPORTER: The only word for this is trans-plendid . It 's trans-plendid .
ALVY: I can think of another word .
REPORTER: He 's God ! I mean , this man is God ! He 's got millions of followers who would crawl all the way across the world just to touch the hem of his garment .
ALVY: Really ? It must be a tremendous hem .
REPORTER: I 'm a Rosicrucian myself .
ALVY: Are you ?
REPORTER: Yeah .
ALVY: I ca n't get with any religion that advertises in Popular Mechanics . Look- there 's God coming outta the men 's room .
REPORTER: It 's unbelievably trans-plendid ! I was at the Stones concert in Altamount when they killed that guy , remember ?
ALVY: Yeah , were yuh ? I was-I was at an Alice Cooper thing where six people were rushed to the hospital with bad vibes .
REPORTER: I hope you do n't mind that I took so long to finish .
ALVY: Oh , no , no , do n't be tsch do n't e silly . You know , I 'm startin ' it-I 'm startin ' to get some feeling back in my jaw now .
REPORTER: Oh , sex with you is really a kafkaesque experience .
ALVY: Oh , tsch , thank you . H 'm .
REPORTER: I mean that as a compliment .
ALVY: I think-I think there 's too much burden placed on the orgasm , you know , to make up for empty areas in life .
REPORTER: Who said that ?
ALVY: Uh , oh , I do n't know . It might have een Leopold and Loeb . Hello . Oh , hi Uh , no , what-what 's the matter ? What-what-what ? You sound terrible No , what- Sure I- Whatta yuh -what kind of an emergency ? No , well , stay there . Stay there , I 'll come ove ight now . I 'll come over right now . Just stay there , I 'll come right over .
ANNIE: Oh .
ALVY: Are you okay ? What 's the matter ? Are you all right ? What-
ANNIE: There 's a spider in the bathroom .
ALVY: What ?
ANNIE: There 's a big black spider in the bathroom .
ALVY: That 's what you got me here for at three o'clock in the morning , 'cause there 's a spider in the bathroom ?
ANNIE: My God , I mean , you know how I am about insects .
ALVY: Oooh .
ANNIE: -I ca n't sleep with a live thing crawling around in the bathroom .
ALVY: Kill it ! For Go- What 's wrong with you ? Do n't you have a can of Raid in the house ?
ANNIE: No .
ALVY: I told you a thousand times you should always keep , uh , a lotta insect spray . You never know who 's gon na crawl over .
ANNIE: I know , I know , and a first-aid kit and a fire extinguisher .
ALVY: Jesus . All right , gim me a magazine . I- 'cause I 'm a little tired . You know , you , you joke with-about me , you make fun of me , but I 'm prepared fo anything . An emergency , a tidal wave , an earthquake . Hey , what is this ? What ? Did you go to a rock concert ?
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: Oh , yeah , really ? Really ? How-how 'd you like it ? Was it-was it , I mean , did it was it heavy ? Did it achieve total heavy-ocity ? Or was it , uh
ANNIE: It was just great !
ALVY: Oh , humdinger . When- Well , I got a wonderful idea . Why don'tcha get the guy who took you to the rock concert , we 'll call him and he can come over and kill the spider . You know , it 's a- He tosses the book down on the cabinet .
ANNIE: I called you ; you wan na help me o not ? H ' h ? Here . She hands him a magazine .
ALVY: What is this ? What are you , since when do you read the `` National Review '' ? What are you turning in to ?
ANNIE: Well , I like to try to get all points of view .
ALVY: It 's wonderful . Then why don'tcha get William F. Buckley to kill the spider ?
ANNIE: Alvy , you 're a little hostile , you know that ? Not only that , you look thin and tired . She puts a piece of gum in her mouth .
ALVY: Well , I was in be- It 's three o'clock in the morning . You , uh , you got me outta bed , I ran over here , I could n't get a taxi cab . You said it was an emergency , and I did n't ge- I ran up the stairs . Hell - I was a lot more attractive when the evening began . Look , uh , tell- Whatta you- Are you going with a right-wing rock-and roll star ? Is that possible ?
ANNIE: Would you like a glass of chocolate milk ?
ALVY: Hey , what am I-your son ? Whatta you mean ? I-I came over TV _
ANNIE: I got the good chocolate , Alvy .
ALVY: Yeah , where is the spider ?
ANNIE: It really is lovely . It 's in the bathroom .
ALVY: Is he in the bathroom ?
ANNIE: Hey , do n't squish it , and after it 's dead , flush it down the toilet , okay ? And flush it a couple o ' times .
ALVY: Darling , darling , I 've been killing spiders since I was thirty , okay ?
ANNIE: Oh . What ?
ALVY: Very big spider .
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: Two Yeah . Lotta , lotta trouble . There 's two of 'em .
ANNIE: Two ?
ALVY: Yep . I did n't think it was that big , ut it 's a major spider . You got a oom or something with a-
ANNIE: Oh , I-I left it at your house .
ALVY: -snow shovel or anything or something .
ANNIE: I think I left it there , I 'm sorry .
ALVY: Okay , let me have this .
ANNIE: Well , what are you doing what are you doing with-
ALVY: Honey , there 's a spider in your bathroom the size of a Buick .
ANNIE: Well , okay . Oooh .
ALVY: Hey , what is this ? You got black soap ?
ANNIE: It 's for my complexion .
ALVY: Whatta-whatta yuh joining a minstrel show ? Geez . Do n't worry ! I did it ! I killed them both . What-what 's the matter ? Whatta you- -whatta you sad about ? You- What 'd you want me to do ? Capture 'em and rehabilitate 'em ?
ANNIE: Oh , do n't go , okay ? Please .
ALVY: Whatta you mean , do n't go ? Whatta-whatta -what 's the matter ? Whatta you expecting -termites ? What 's the matter ?
ANNIE: Oh , uh , I do n't know . I miss you . Tsch .
ALVY: Oh , Jesus , really ?
ANNIE: Oh , yeah . Oh . Oh ! Alvy ?
ALVY: What ?
ANNIE: Was there somebody in your room when I called you ?
ALVY: W-w-whatta you mean ?
ANNIE: I mean was there another- I thought I heard a voice .
ALVY: Oh , I had the radio on .
ANNIE: Yeah ?
ALVY: I 'm sorry . I had the television set I had the television-
ANNIE: Yeah . Alvy pulls her to him and they kiss again .
ALVY: Oh , no , no , I think we 're both much too mature for something like that .
ANNIE: Living together has n't been so bad , has it ?
ALVY: It 's all right for me , it 's been terrific , you know ? Better than either one of my marriages . See , 'cause . . . 'cause there 's just something different about you . I do n't know what it is , but it 's great .
ANNIE: You know I think that if you let me , maybe I could help you have more fun , you know ? I mean , I know it 's hard and Yeah .
ALVY: I do n't know .
ANNIE: Alvy , what about what if we go away this weekend , and we could-
ALVY: Tsch , why do n't we get why do n't we get Rob , and the three of us 'll drive into Brooklyn , you know , and we show you the old neighborhood .
ANNIE: Okay , okay . Okay .
ALVY: That 'd be fun for yuh . Do n't you think-
ANNIE: Yeah . Alvy raises up his head and they kiss .
ALVY: Hey , can yuh watch the road ? Watch the
ROB: Yeah , watch the road !
ALVY: You 'll total the whole car .
ANNIE: Hey , you know , I never even visited Brooklyn before .
ROB: I ca n't wait to see the old neighborhood .
ALVY: Yeah , the neighborhood 's gon na be great .
ROB: We can show her the schoolyard .
ALVY: Right . I was a great athlete . Tell her , Max , I was the best , I was all schoolyard .
ROB: Yes , I remember . He was all schoolyard . They threw him a football once , he tried to dribble it .
ALVY: Yeah , well , I used to lose my glasses a lot .
ANNIE: Holy cow !
ROB: You 're lucky , Max-where I used to live is now a pornographic equipment store . Annie laughs .
ALVY: I have some very good memories there .
ROB: What kind of good memories , Max ? Your mother and father fighting all the time .
ALVY: Yeah , and always over the most idiculous things .
ALVY'S FATHER: You fired the cleaning woman ?
ALVY'S MOTHER: She was stealing .
ALVY'S FATHER: But she 's colored .
ALVY'S MOTHER: SO ?
ALVY'S FATHER: So the colored have enough trouble .
ALVY'S MOTHER: She was going through my pocketbook !
ALVY'S FATHER: They 're persecuted enough !
ALVY'S MOTHER: Who 's persecuting ? She stole !
ALVY'S FATHER: All right-so we can afford it .
ALVY'S MOTHER: How can we afford it ? On your pay ? What if she steals more ?
ALVY'S FATHER: She 's a colored woman , from Harlem ! She has no money ! She 's got a right to steal from us ! After all , who is she gon na steal from if not us ?
ADULT ALVY: You 're both crazy !
ROB: They ca n't hear you , Max .
ALVY'S MOTHER: Leo I married a fool !
ROB: Hey , Max ! Who 's that ?
ALVY: It-it-it 's the welcome-home party in nineteen forty-five , for my cousin Herbie .
ADULT ALVY: Look , look , there's-there 's that one over there , that 's Joey Nichols , he was my- -father 's friend . He was always bothering me when I was a kid .
JOEY: Joey Nichols . See . Nichols . See , Nichols ! Yuh see , nickels ! You can always emember my name , just think of Joey Five Cents . That 's me . Joey Five Cents ! Joey grabs Alvy 's cheeks and pinches them .
YOUNG ALVY: What an asshole !
ALVY'S MOTHER: I was always the sister with good common sense . But Tessie was always the one with personality . When she was younger , they all wanted to marry Tessie .
ADULT ALVY: Do you believe that , Max ? Tessie Moskowitz had the personality . She 's the life of the ghetto , no doubt .
ALVY'S MOTHER: She was once a great beauty . Tessie nods her head `` yes . ''
ROB: Tessie , they say you were the siste with personality .
TESSIE: I was a great beauty .
ROB: Uh , how did this personality come about ?
TESSIE: I was very charming .
ROB: There were many men interested in you ?
TESSIE: Oh , I was quite a lively dancer .
ROB: That 's pretty hard to believe .
ANNIE: Well , I had a really good day , you know that ? It was just a real fine way to spend my birthday .
ALVY: Ah ? Oh , well , your birthday 's not till tomorrow , honey , I hate to tell yuh .
ANNIE: Yeah , but it 's real close .
ALVY: Yeah , but no presents till midnight .
ANNIE: Oh , darn it .
ALVY: Happy birthday .
ANNIE: What is this ? Is this aPresent ? Are you kidding ?
ALVY: Yeah , hey , why do n't yuh try it on ?
ANNIE: Uh , yeah , uh t-t-this is more like a present for you , yeah , but it's-
ALVY: Try it it 'll add years to ou sex life .
ANNIE: Uh huh . Yeah . Forget it .
ALVY: Here 's a real present .
ANNIE: What huh ?
ALVY: Check it out .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah ? What is this , anyway ? Let me see . Okay , let 's oooh , God ! Oh , you knew I wanted this God , it 's terrific , God !
ALVY: Yeah , I know . Just-just put on the watch , and-and that thing , and we 'll just
ANNIE: Oh ! My God ! Alvy kisses Annie .
ALVY: You were-you were sensational . I mean , I-you know , I-I told yuh that if yuh stuck to it , you would be great , and-and , you know , I-I-you-you were sensational .
ANNIE: Yeah , well , we have the , I mean , they were just a terrific audience , I mean , you know , it makes it really easy for me , because I can be huh ?
TONY: Excuse me . He shakes hands with Annie , smiling .
ANNIE: Oh .
TONY: Hi , I'm-I 'm Tony Lacey .
ANNIE: Well , hi !
TONY: Uh , we just wanted to stop by and say that we really enjoyed your sets .
ANNIE: Oh , yeah , really , oh !
TONY: I though it was very musical , and I liked it a lot .
ANNIE: Oh , neat oh , that 's very nice , gosh , thanks a lot .
TONY: Are you are you recording ? Or do- Are you with any label now ?
ANNIE: No , no , no , not at all .
TONY: Uh , well , I 'd like to talk to you about that sometime , if you get a chance . Seated Alvy looks the other way , reacting .
ANNIE: Oh . What about ?
TONY: of possibly working together .
ANNIE: Well , hey , that 's , that 's nice . Uh . Oh , listen , this is , uh , Alvy Singer . Do you know Alvy ? Uh and uh Tony Lacey .
TONY: No , I don't-I do n't know , but I-I know your work . I 'm a big fan of yours .
ALVY: Thank you very much . It 's a pleasure .
TONY: This is , uh , Shawn , and , uh Bob and Petronia .
ANNIE: Hi .
ENTOURAGE: Hi .
ANNIE: Hi , hi , Bob
TONY: Uh w-we 're going back to the Pierre . We 're staying at the Pierre and we 're gon na meet Jack and Angelica , and have a drink there , and if you 'd like to come , uh , we 'd love to have you .
ANNIE: Yeah .
TONY: And we could just sit and talk nothing . Uh , not a big deal , it 's just relax , just e very mellow .
ALVY: Remember , we had that thing .
ANNIE: What thing ?
ALVY: Do n't you remember we-we-we discussed that thing that we were-
ANNIE: Thing ?
ALVY: -yes , we had , uh
ANNIE: Oh , the thing ! Oh , the thing yeah yeah .
TONY: Oh , well , I-if it 's inconvenient , eh , we ca n't do it now that 's fine , too . W-w-w-we 'll do it another time .
ANNIE: Hey-
TONY: Maybe if you 're on the Coast , we 'll get together and and we 'll meet there . He shakes hands with Annie .
ANNIE: Oh .
TONY: It was a wonderful set .
ANNIE: Oh , gosh .
TONY: I really enjoyed it . Nice to have metcha . Good night .
ENTOURAGE: Bye-bye .
ANNIE: Nice to see you bye . Yeah . Bye . She turns and looks at Alvy .
ALVY: What 's you well , what 's the matter , You w- wan na go to that party ?
ANNIE: I do n't know , I thought it might be kind of fun , you know what I mean , it 'd be nice to meet some new people .
ALVY: I 'm just not you know , I do n't think I could take a mellow eve- 'cause I-I do n't respond well to mellow , you know what I mean , I-I have a tendency to if I get too mellow , I-I ripen and then ot . You know , and it's-it 's not good for my
ANNIE: All right , all right , you do n't wan na go to the party , so uh , whatta you wan na do ?
ALVY: Well , we never have any laughs anymore , is the problem .
ANNIE: Well , I 've been moody and dissatisfied .
ALVY'S PSYCHIATRIST: How often do you sleep together ?
ANNIE'S PSYCHIATRIST: Do you have sex often ?
ALVY: Hardly ever . Maybe three times a week .
ANNIE: Constantly ! I 'd say three times a week . Like the other night , Alvy wanted to have sex .
ALVY: She would not sleep with me the othe night , you know , it's-
ANNIE: And I do n't know I mean , six months ago I-I woulda done it . I woulda done it , just to please him .
ALVY: I mean I tried everything , you know , I-I-I put on soft music and my-my red light ulb , and
ANNIE: But the thing is-I mean , since ou discussions here , I feel I have a right to my own feelings . I think you woulda een happy because uh , uh , I really asserted myself .
ALVY: The incredible thing about it is , I 'm paying for her analysis and she 's making progress and I 'm getting screwed .
ANNIE: I do n't know , though , I feel so guilty ecause Alvy is paying for it , so , you know , so I do feel guilty if I do n't go to bed with him . But if I do go to bed with him , it 's like I 'm going against my own feelings . I do n't know I-I ca n't win .
ALVY: You know it 's getting expensive my analyst for her analyst . She- she 's making progress and I 'm not making any progress . Her progress is defeating my progress .
ANNIE: Sometimes I think-sometimes I think I should just live with a woman .
WOMAN FRIEND: Wow , I do n't believe it you mean to tell me you guys have never snorted coke ?
ANNIE: Well , I always wanted to try , you know , ut , uh , Alvy , uh he 's very down on it .
ALVY: Hey , do n't put it on me . You kn- Wh-what is it , I do n't wan na put a wad of white powder in my nose 'cause the-the nasal membranes They all start talking at once .
ANNIE: You never wan na try anything new , Alvy .
ALVY: How can you say that ? I mean , who said I-I-I-I said that you , I and that girl from your acting class should sleep together in a threesome .
ANNIE: That 's sick !
ALVY: Yeah , I know it 's sick , but it 's new . You know , you did n't say it could n't be sick . Annie laughs , chatters .
WOMAN FRIEND: Just come on , Alvy . Do your body a favor . Try it , come on .
ALVY: Oh , yeah ?
ANNIE: Yeah . Come on . It 'd be fun .
ALVY: Oh , I 'm sure it 's a lot of fun , 'cause the Incas did it , you know , and-and they-they-they were a million laughs .
ANNIE: Alvy , come on , for your own experience . I mean , you wan na write , why not ?
MALE FRIEND: It 's great stuff , Alvy . Friend of mine just brought it in from California .
ANNIE: Oh , do you know something-I did n't tell yuh , we 're going to California next week .
GIRL: Oh , really ?
ANNIE: Yeah
ALVY: I 'm thrilled . As you know , uh uh , on my agent 's advice I sold out , and I 'm gon na do an appearance on TV .
ANNIE: No , no , no that 's not it at all . Alvy 's giving an award on television . Gee , he talks like he 's violating a moral issue sitting here .
GIRL: You 're kidding ?
ALVY: It 's so phony , and we have to leave New York during Christmas week , which really kills me .
MAN: Alvy , listen , while you 're in California , could you possibly score some coke for me ? Annie laughs .
ALVY: Sure , sure , I 'll be glad to . I-I 'll just put it in a-a-a h-h-hollow heel that I have in my boot , you know . H-h-how much is this stuff ?
MAN: It 's about two thousand dollars an ounce .
ANNIE: God .
ALVY: Really ? And what is the kick of it ? Because I never
VOICES: We wish you a Merry Christmas , We wish you a Merry Christmas , We wish you a Merry Christmas , And a -Happy New Year .
ROB: I 've never been so relaxed as I have een since I moved out here , Max . I want you to see my house . I live ight next to Hugh Hefner 's house , Max . He lets me use the Jacuzzi . And the women , Max , they 're like the women in Playboy magazine , only they can move their arms and legs .
ANNIE: You know , I ca n't get over that this is eally Beverly Hills .
VOICES: We wish you a Merry Christmas , And a Happy New Year .
ALVY: Yeah , the architecture is really consistent , is n't it ? French next to-
VOICES: Oh , Christmas tree , Oh , Christmas tree , How bright and green Our
ALVY: -Spanish , next to Tudor , next to Japanese .
ANNIE: God , it 's so clean out here .
ALVY: It 's that they do n't throw their garbage away . They make it into television shows .
ROB: Aw , come on , Max , give us a break , will yuh ? It 's Christmas . Annie starts snapping pictures of the view .
ALVY: Can you believe this is Christmas here ?
VOICES: Oh Christmas tree , Oh Christmas tree
ANNIE: You know , it was snowing-it was snowing and really gray in New York yesterday .
ROB: No kidding ?
ALVY: Right-well , Santa Claus will have sunstroke .
ROB: Max , there 's no crime , there 's no mugging .
ALVY: There 's no economic crime , you know , ut there's-there 's ritual , religious- cult murders , you know , there 's wheat- germ killers out here .
ROB: While you 're out here , Max , I want you to see some of my TV show . And we 're invited to a big Christmas party .
VOICES: Remember Christ our Savio Was born on Christmas day To save us all from Satan 's powe As we were gone astray .
ALVY: Oh .
ROB: Look , now , Charlie , give me a big laugh here .
ALVY: Do you realize how immoral this all is ?
ROB: Max , I 've got a hit series .
ALVY: Yeah , I know ; but you 're adding fake laughs .
ARNIE: Oh , I 'm sorry .
ROB: Give me a tremendous laugh here , Charlie .
ALVY: Look , uh Loud laughter from the TV monitors .
ROB: We do the show live in front of an audience .
ALVY: Great , but nobody laughs at it 'cause your jokes are n't funny .
ROB: Yeah , well , that 's why this machine is dynamite .
ALVY: Is there booing on there ? The monitors show a woman on the screen .
WOMAN: We were just gon na fix you up with my cousin Dolores .
ALVY: Oh , Max , I do n't feel well .
ROB: What 's the matter ?
ALVY: I do n't know , I just got-I got very dizzy I feel dizzy , Max .
ROB: Well , sit down .
ALVY: Oh , Jesus .
ROB: You all right ?
ALVY: I do n't know , I mean , I-
ROB: You wan na lie down ?
ALVY: No , no-my , you know , my stomach felt queasy all morning . I just started getting
ROB: How about a ginger ale ?
ALVY: Oh , Max no , I maybe I better lie down .
ANNIE: Yes .
DOCTOR: Why do n't you just try to get a little of this down ? This is just plain chicken .
ALVY: Oh , oh , no , I can't-I ca n't eat this . I 'm nauseous . If you could-if you could just give me something to get me through the next two hours , you know I-I have to go out to Burbank and give out an award on a TV show .
ANNIE: Well H-h huh Oh , good Yes , I 'll tell him .
DOCTOR: Well , there 's nothing wrong with you actually , so far as I can tell . I mean , you have no fever , no no symptoms of anything serious . You have n't been eating pork or shellfish . Annie bangs up and moves over to Alvy .
ANNIE: Excuse me . I 'm sorry , I 'm sorry , Doctor . Uh , Alvy-Alvy , that was the show . They said everything is fine . They found a eplacement , so they 're going to tape without you .
ALVY: I 'm nauseous . Oh , jesus , now I do n't get to do the TV show ?
ANNIE: Yeah . Listen , Doctor , I 'm worried .
DOCTOR: Now , Mrs. Singer , I ca n't find anything
ALVY: Christ !
ANNIE: Nothing at all ?
DOCTOR: No , I think I can get a lab man up here .
ALVY: Oh , jesus . Can I have the salt , please ?
ANNIE: What do you mean ? Do you think he's-
DOCTOR: Yes , excuse me . Perhaps it would be even better if we took him to the hospital for a day or two . Alvy begins to eat .
ANNIE: Uh-huh Oh , hospital ?
DOCTOR: Well , otherwise , there 's no real way to tell what 's going on .
ALVY: This is not bad , actually .
1ST MAN: Well , you take a meeting with him , I 'll take a meeting with you if you 'll take a meeting with Freddy .
2ND MAN: I took a meeting with Freddy . Freddy took a meeting with Charlie . You take a meeting with him .
1ST MAN: All the good meetings are taken .
3RD MAN: Right now it 's only a notion , but I think I can get money to make it into a concept and later turn it into an idea .
ROB: You like this house , Max ?
ALVY: M'hm .
ROB: I even brought a road map to get us to the bathroom .
ALVY: Whee , you shoulda told me it was Tony Lacey 's party .
ROB: What difference does that make ?
ALVY: I think he has a little thing for Annie .
ROB: Oh , no , no , that 's bullshit , Max . He goes with that girl over there .
ALVY: Where ?
ROB: The one with the V.P.L .
ALVY: V.P.L . ?
ROB: Visible panty line . Max , she is gorgeous .
ALVY: Yeah , she 's a ten , Max , and that 's great for you because you 're -you 're used to twos , are n't you ?
ROB: There are no twos , Max .
ALVY: Yeah , you 're used to the kind with the- with the shopping bags walking through Central Park with the surgical masks on muttering .
ROB: M'hm .
ALVY: And uh-
ROB: How do you like this couple , Max ?
ALVY: Yeah , intensive care ward . My God-hey , Max , I think she 's I think she 's giving me the eye .
ROB: If she comes over here , Max , my brain is going to turn into guacamole .
ALVY: I 'll handle it . I 'll handle it . Hi .
ROB: Oh , he-he did n't say anything .
ALVY: No , no , I came out here to get some shock therapy , but there was an energy crisis , so I He 's my-my food taster . Have you two met ?
ROB: Hi . How do you do .
ALVY: Yeah , he 's crazy . The girl in white laughs .
ROB: Yeah . Right .
ALVY: Uri Geller must be on the premises someplace .
ROB: We 're gon na operate together .
TONY: We just need about six weeks , in about six weeks we could cut a whole album .
ANNIE: I do n't know , this is strange to me , you know .
TONY: just that 's all you need . You can come and stay here .
ANNIE: Oh .
TONY: There 's a whole wing in this house .
ANNIE: Oh yeah , stay here ? U-huh .
TONY: You can have it to use . Why-why are you smiling ?
ANNIE: I do n't know . I do n't know . She picks up an hors doeuvre .
1ST MAN: Not only is he a great agent , but he eally gives good meetings .
2ND MAN: M'mm .
TONY: This is a great house , really . Everything . Saunas , Jacuzzis , three tennis courts . You know who the original owners were ? Nelson Eddy , then Legs Diamond . Then you know who lived here ?
ALVY: Trigger . Annie and the girl in white laugh .
TONY: Charlie Chaplin .
ALVY: Hey .
TONY: Right before his un-American thing .
ALVY: Yeah , this place is great .
ANNIE: Yeah .
TONY: Uh , you guys are still-uh , you 're still New Yorkers .
ALVY: Yeah , I love it there .
ANNIE: Yeah .
TONY: Well , I used to live there . I used to live there for years . You know , but it 's gotten-it 's so dirty now .
ANNIE: Yeah .
ALVY: I 'm into garbage . It 's my thing .
ANNIE: Boy , this is really a nice screening oom . It 's really a nice room .
TONY: Oh , and there 's another thing about New York . See you-you wan na see a movie , you have to stand in a long line .
ANNIE: Yeah .
TONY: It could be freezing , it could be raining .
ANNIE: Yeah .
TONY: And here , you just-
ANNIE: Oh , good . Okay .
ALVY: I 'm cool .
ANNIE: It 's wonderful . I mean , you know they just watch movies all day .
ALVY: Yeah , and gradually you get old and die . You know it 's important to make a little effort once in a while .
ANNIE: Do n't you think his girl friend 's eautiful ?
ALVY: Yeah , she 's got a great-lookin ' fa- A pat on the androgynous side . But it 's
ANNIE: Alvy , uh , let 's face it . You know something , do n't think our relationship is working .
ALVY: Tsch , I know . A relationship , I think , is-is like a shark , you know ? It has to constantly move forward or it dies . And I think what we got on our hands is a dead shark .
ANNIE: Well , let 's see now If it has my name on it , then I guess it 's mine .
ALVY: Oh , it sure has You know , you wrote your name in all my books , 'cause you knew this day was gon na come .
ANNIE: Well , uh , Alvy , you wanted to break up just as much as I do .
ALVY: There 's no-no question in my mind . I think we 're doing the mature thing , without any doubt .
ANNIE: Now , look , all the books on death and dying are yours and all the poetry books are mine .
ALVY: This `` Denial of Death '' . You remember this ?
ANNIE: Oh-
ALVY: This is the first book that I got you .
ANNIE: -God .
ALVY: Remember that day ?
ANNIE: Right . Geez , I feel like there 's a great weight off my back . M'mmm .
ALVY: Thanks , honey .
ANNIE: Oh , no , no , no , no , no . I mean , you know , no , no , no , I mean , I think it 's eally important for us to explore new elationships and stuff like that . She walks away .
ALVY: There 's no-there 's no question about that , 'cause we 've given this uh , uh , I think a more than fair shot , you know ? He tosses the book into the carton .
ANNIE: Yeah , my analyst thinks this move is keen for me .
ALVY: Yeah , and I-I tru- you know , I trust her , because my-my analyst recommended her .
ANNIE: Well , why should I put you through all my moods and hang-ups anyway ?
ALVY: Right . And you-and you know what the eauty part is ?
ANNIE: What ?
ALVY: We can always come back together again . Because there 's no-there 's no problem . 'Cause Right .
ANNIE: Exactly , but exactly . Ooooh !
ALVY: You know , I-I-I do n't think many couples could handle this . You know , they could just break up and remain friends .
ANNIE: Hey , this one 's mine , this button . This one , you rem-
ALVY: Yeah .
ANNIE: I guess these are all yours . Impeach , uh , Eisenhower Impeach Nixon Impeach Lyndon Johnson Impeach Ronald Reagan .
ALVY: I miss Annie . I made a terrible mistake .
OLD WOMAN: Do n't tell me you 're jealous ?
ALVY: Yeah , jealous . A little bit like Medea . Lem me , lem me -can I show you something , lady ? What I have here I found this in the apartment . Black soap . She used to wash her face eight hundred times a day with lack soap . Do n't ask me why .
OLD WOMAN: Well , why do n't you go out with othe women ?
ALVY: Well , I-I tried , but it 's , uh , you know , it 's very depressing .
GIRL DATE: What are you making such a big deal about ? They 're only lobsters . Look , you 're a grown man , you know how to pick up a lobster .
ALVY: I 'm not myself since I stopped smoking .
GIRL DATE: Oh , when 'd you quit smoking ?
ALVY: Sixteen years ago .
GIRL DATE: Whatta you mean ?
ALVY: Mean ?
GIRL DATE: You stopped smoking sixteen years ago , is that what you said ? Oh , I-I do n't understand . Are you joking , or what ?
ALVY: Listen , honey , Central Park 's turning green Yeah , I sa-I saw that lunatic that we-where we used to see with the , uh , uh , pinwheel hat and , you know , and the roller skates ? . . . Listen , I-I want you to come back here Well , I-I-then I 'm gon na come out there and getcha .
ANNIE: Hi .
ALVY: You look very pretty .
ANNIE: Oh , no , I just lost a little weight , that 's all . Well , you look nice .
ALVY: You see , I-I 've been thinking about it and I think that we should get married .
ANNIE: Oh , Alvy , come on .
ALVY: Why ? You wan na live out here all year ? It 's like living in Munchkin Land .
ANNIE: Well , whatta you mean ? I mean , it 's perfectly fine out here . I mean , Tony 's very nice and , uh , well , I meet people and I go to parties and-and we play tennis . I mean , that 's that 's a very big step for me , you know ? I mean I 'm able to enjoy people more .
ALVY: So whatta you You 're not gon na come ack to New York ?
ANNIE: What 's so great about New York ? I mean , it 's a dying city . You read `` Death in Venice . ''
ALVY: Hey , you did n't read `` Death in Venice '' till I bought it for yuh .
ANNIE: That 's right , that 's right . You only gave me books with the word `` death '' in the titles .
ALVY: That 's right , 'cause it 's an important issue .
ANNIE: Alvy , you 're incapable of enjoying life , you know that ? I mean , your life is New York City . You 're just this person . You 're like this island unto yourself .
ALVY: I ca n't enjoy anything unless I unless everybody is . I-you know , if one guy is starving someplace , that 's you know , I-I it puts a crimp in my evening . So wan na get married or what ?
ANNIE: No . We 're friends . I wan na remain friends .
ALVY: Okay . Check , please . Can I -can I Can I Can I
ANNIE: You 're mad , are n't you ?
ALVY: No . Yes , of course I 'm mad , because you love me , I know that .
ANNIE: Alvy , I ca n't say that that 's true at this point in my life . I really just ca n't say that that 's true . I mean , you know how wonderful you are . I mean , you know you 're the reason that I got outta my room and that I was able to sing , and-and-and , you know , get more in touch with my feelings and all that crap . Anyway , look , I do n't wanna- Listen , listen , listen , uh h ' h , so whatta you up to anyway , huh ?
ALVY: The usual , you know . Uh , tryin't'write . I 'm workin ' on a play . Jesus . So whatta yuh saying ? That you 're not comin ' back to New York with me ? He nods his head in disbelief .
ANNIE: No ! Look , I got ta go . She starts to rise .
ALVY: You mean that I-I-I-I flew three thousand miles to see you .
ANNIE: I 'm late .
ALVY: Air miles , you know . I mean , you know what that does to my stomach ?
ANNIE: If you must know , it 's a hectic time for Tony . The Grammys are tonight .
ALVY: The what ?
ANNIE: The Grammys . He 's got a lotta records up for awards .
ALVY: You mean they give awards for that kind o ' music ?
ANNIE: Oh !
ALVY: I thought just earplugs .
ANNIE: Just forget it , Alvy , okay ? Let 's just forget the conversation . She closes the door , starts the motor .
ALVY: Awards ! They do nothing but give out awards ! I ca n't believe it . Greatest , greatest fascist dictator , Adolf Hitler !
OFFICER: May I see your license , please ?
ALVY: Sure . just don't-do n't get angry , you know what I mean ? 'Cause I-I have - I have my-my license here . You know , it 's a ented car . And I 've
OFFICER: Do n't give me your life story -just pick up the license .
ALVY: Pick up the license . You have to ask nicely 'cause I 've had an extremely ough day . You know , my girl friend-
OFFICER: Just give me the license , please .
ALVY: Since you put it that way . It 's hard for me to refuse . have a , I have a terrific problem with authority , you know . I 'm it 's not your fault . Do n't take it personal .
ROB: Imagine my surprise when I got you call , Max .
ALVY: Yeah . I had the feeling that I got you at a bad moment . You know , I heard high-pitched squealing .
ROB: Twins , Max . Sixteen-year-olds . Can you imagine the mathematical possibilities ?
ALVY: You 're an actor , Max . You should be doing Shakespeare in the Park .
ROB: Oh , I did Shakespeare in the Park , Max . I got mugged . I was playing Richard the Second and two guys with leather jackets stole my leotard . He puts on an elaborate helmet and goggles .
ALVY: Max , are we driving through plutonium ?
ROB: Keeps out the alpha rays , Max . You do n't get old .
ACTOR: You 're a thinking person . How can you choose this lifestyle ?
ACTRESS: What is so incredibly great about New York ? It 's a dying city ! You-you read `` Death in Venice '' .
ACTOR: You did n't read `` Death in Venice '' till I gave it to you !
ACTRESS: Well , you only give me books with the word `` death '' in the title .
ACTOR: It 's an important issue .
ACTRESS: Alvy , you are totally incapable of enjoying life .
ACTOR: Okay , if that 's all that we 've been through together means to you , I guess it 's better if we just said goodbye , once and for all ! You know , it 's funny , after all the serious talks and passionate moments that it ends here in a health -food restaurant on Sunset Boulevard . Goodbye , Sunny .
ACTRESS: Wait ! I'm-I 'm gon na go with you . I love you .
ALVY: Tsch , whatta you want ? It was my first play . You know , you know how you 're always tryin ' t ' get things to come out perfect in art because , uh , it 's real difficult in life . Interestingly , however , I did run into Annie again . It was on the Upper West Side of Manhattan .
ALVY'S VOICE: She had moved back to New York . She was living in SoHo with some guy . And when I met her she was , of all things , dragging him in to see `` The Sorrow and the Pity . '' Which I counted as a personal triumph . Annie and I we had lunch sometime after that , and , uh , just , uh , kicked around old times .
JOE: Go where ?
JOE: America , could you just
STEVEN: Okay , let 's just take a deep breath , let your ribs expand and relax . And reach up and into downward dog .
SALLY: Hello , hi , hiand ? Thank God .
JOE: Oh , well , we 'll just have to try again . Sound like a plan ?
SALLY: Happy anniversary , baby .
JOE: Happy anniversary . They smile .
STEVEN: And change sides
AMERICA: Mr. Joe , we have to have the house . If you please now
JOE: It 's yours .
SALLY: Hardly
JOE: Accept a compliment .
SALLY: I think you 're the most beautiful woman in the world . They move toward the bed .
JOE: What did you get me ?
SALLY: In the morning , after everyone 's gone and there 's just us . She pushes him on the bed .
JOE: Kiss my eyes . She does .
SALLY: My wrists . He does .
JOE: Kiss the back of my knees .
SALLY: Through the sweats or not ?
JOE: Not .
SALLY: What ?
JOE: You did n't kiss anyone else 's knees , did you ? Sally shakes her head .
SALLY: No . Did you ?
JOE: No . I missed that .
SALLY: I missed all of you . We 're okay , are n't we ?
JOE: We 're great .
SALLY: I mean , you 're really back .
JOE: For good . They begin to make lovethe phone RINGS .
SALLY: Well , it might be Clair . They 're threatening not to come
JOE: What ?
SALLY: They ca n't find a sitter Hello ? Excuse me ? Yes , uh , hold on . Just a moment . It 's Skye Davidson . She needs directions to the house . You invited Skye fucking Davidson to our anniversary party ?
JOE: Okay . I 'm sorry , look , I meant to tell you . It was the only chance I had to meet her .
SALLY: You invited her to our anniversary party ? I did n't even invite my mother .
JOE: She goes on location tomorrow . Sally , I 'm sorry . Look , I ca n't keep her on hold .
SALLY: No , no of course not . It 's Skye fucking Davidson , for fuck 's sake .
JOE: You want me to uninvite her ?
SALLY: No , no of course not . How old is she ? Twenty-fucking-two ?
JOE: Skye ! I 'm so glad you 're able to make itit 's our sixth , actually . You read the book again ? Well , no , the ending to chapter sixit 's just that it 's not filmic . We tried it in an earlier draft , but , it just was n't filmic Well , sure , we can absolutely look at that again . If you 're coming from Laurel , you want to take Sunset west , we 're just past Will Rogers State Park . Three blocks west of that , you want to hang right . It 's about three quarters of a mile up a big white thing on the left .
SALLY: I 'm going to throw up .
JOE: Who the fuck can be here at this time ? It 's not even seven !
SALLY: Oh Jesus , who else is always early fo Christ 's sake ?
JOE: I 'll say as little as possible . Sally exits the bedroom .
SALLY: I love you .
JUDY: I know we 're early , we 're so early . Sorry .
JERRY: You have to sign your taxes anyway .
SALLY: Of course we do . We have to sign our taxes .
JOE: You can never be too early or too thin .
JERRY: Happy anniversary , buddy ! Six months ago , who would have thunk it ? Jerry hugs Joe .
JOE: Well , not me , to be honest .
JERRY: Do n't fuck up again . It 's got a ripple effect . Sally suffers , we all suffer .
JUDY: We have a gift ?
JOE: Thanks , I 'll take that . Champagne ?
JUDY: Lovely . Joe moves toward the kitchen .
JERRY: We closed .
SALLY: Fantastic . Out here .
JUDY: The house looks beautiful , are those hydrangeas ?
JERRY: Joe officially owns No . 4 , Cheyenne Walk , Chelsea , London , England . No small doing .
SALLY: I love you , you 're a genius .
JERRY: I suppose . Sally , that 's quite a gift . I 'm not sure it 's in your best interest .
SALLY: I adore him .
JERRY: The realtor 'll be here tomorrow in the morning . The house had to go on the market to insure the loan on the London flat .
SALLY: I know . I know that . Do n't spoil it .
JERRY: What you earn has to double in order to cover expenses in London , it 's an outrageously expensive city .
SALLY: We 've only been over this how many times ?
JERRY: You only made half your quote this year .
SALLY: Well , you 're a tower of support .
JERRY: I worry because you do n't . It 's my job . I 'm feeling guilty . I would 've liked it if you waited until the two of you were on more solid ground .
SALLY: We could n't be on more solid ground .
JERRY: Whatever you say . Listen , I love you . Otis is barking .
SALLY: And Joe 's huge in Europe . He 's like a ock star in London . His novels sell millions .
JERRY: Not millions .
SALLY: He 's directing now .
JERRY: They 're paying him scale .
SALLY: He gets huge advances on his novels . He 's going back to that . You know how he hates it here .
JERRY: There 's still time to undo this .
SALLY: We 'll be fine .
JERRY: Did you invite them ?
SALLY: The Roses ? And of course they said yes .
JERRY: That was the plan . And you 're thrilled to have them .
SALLY: Whatever you say .
JERRY: Did you tell Joe to behave ?
SALLY: Yes .
JERRY: Did he promise ?
SALLY: Scout 's honor .
JERRY: Before I forget . Put it on the bookshelf .
SALLY: You 're out of your mind .
JERRY: Just do what I say , alright ?
SALLY: How much bowing and scraping do you want us to do ?
JERRY: Beats a lawsuit .
JOE: I love gifts . What did you guys get us ?
JUDY: Nothing that ca n't be exchanged .
JOE: Oh . Well . Good .
JUDY: Congratulations on the deal . How exciting . Is Sally doing Sally ? I mean it 's Sally . The character that 's based on Sally . The character that 's based on Sally in the book .
JOE: The novel . No , Skye Davidson is playing the lead .
JUDY: Oh my God , I 'm a huge Skye Davidson fan . She 's very beautiful .
JOE: Yes , she is .
JUDY: But I am right , yes ? She 's based on Sally .
JOE: It 's a novel .
JUDY: Still . Well . Let 's drop it .
JOE: Yes .
JUDY: I 'm not much of a reader , but I do love autobiographies , even biographies sometimes . Mostly non-fiction . Did you ead the new Styron ?
JOE: No .
JUDY: It 's very good . I understand you won the Booker Prize .
JOE: Yes I did .
JUDY: Is your script much like the novel ? Jerry says it 's very good . But you know , you read the novel , and then you see the movie - and most of the time you say , `` what 's this ? '' You know ? I sometimes think we 're better off not reading the novel at all . Because , we come with expectations and of course , we know where we 're going . Do n't you find ?
JOE: Do n't I find what ?
JUDY: I do n't know why Joe , we 've known each other how long
JOE: Not long .
JUDY: Do n't be silly .
JOE: Joking .
JUDY: Yes I know . I started to say I started to say Joe that
JOE: Do I put you off ?
JUDY: You manage to throw me off balance . I adore you .
JOE: And I you .
JUDY: But I 'm always afraid I 'll say something stupid .
JOE: Ah .
JUDY: And so I always manage to , do you see ? Like the book/script thing , do you see ?
JOE: Mmm hmmm .
SALLY: You know Jerry .
CAL: Yes , of course .
SOPHIA: I 'm the wife . We 've met .
JERRY: You , I know .
SALLY: Hey , beautiful girl .
SOPHIA: Jack ? Jack , you promised .
JACK: Happy anniversary to you . We 're glad Joe came home . Do n't split up again . Cause we like the food . Much laughter and clapping .
JOE: Jack . Did you compose that yourself ?
CAL: Absolutely .
JOE: Had a little help ?
CAL: Absolutely not .
JOE: It has your ring .
CAL: I 'm not that good .
JERRY: Cal , my wife Judy .
JUDY: Nice to meet you .
CAL: I think we 've met , actually . No ? At another one of these things ?
JUDY: No , I do n't think so .
JERRY: Congratulations on the Academy Award . Great performance . Really warranted .
SOPHIA: He thought so .
JERRY: Sally always manages to get robbed .
SALLY: Enough about me .
SOPHIA: Evie has a little something for you . Evie shakes her head .
EVIE: I do n't think so .
SALLY: Since when are you so shy ?
EVIE: Never .
SOPHIA: Honey , we have gifts for you and all sorts of surprises . Where is America ? I know she 's here somewhere . Joe reaches for the gifts .
JOE: I 'll take them .
SOPHIA: No , I have a little talking to do with America . Privately . I 'll find her .
SALLY: In the kitchen .
JOE: Who 'd like to go and find Otis ?
EVIE: Me !
JACK: I guess .
JUDY: The infamous dog ?
JOE: He 's the best dog in the world . They 're both coming tonight . Not my idea .
JUDY: Ours .
JOE: It 's Jerry 's worst idea .
CAL: What 's that ?
JOE: The neighbors from hell . The kind that lay in wait . I 'd rather move actually . Would n't I ? Would n't I ?
SALLY: Yes .
JOE: Okay . Last one to find Otis is a smelly old bum .
JACK: Uh , uh .
JOE: He 'll run next door into their backyard and he 'll bark and bark and bark and eat their pitbull for his dinner . Is it a pitbull ?
RYAN: No , actually .
JOE: Oh whatever . We do n't want that to happen , do we ?
JACK: No ?
RYAN: It 's a rottweiler , actually . I do n't think our rottweiler is in any danger , Jack .
JOE: Well , Jack and I are very relieved .
RYAN: I thought this was a party . Are we going to talk about the dog thing ?
MONICA: Please , Ryan .
JOE: No , he 's absolutely right . You 're absolutely right , Ryan . Dog talk must be anned . Canine conversations are completely discouraged it 's really good of you to join us . Can I get you a drink ?
RYAN: Not for me , thanks . An awkward moment .
MONICA: Something soft .
JOE: Right away . Are you sure you would n't like something soft , Ryan ?
RYAN: I 'm sure , yes .
SALLY: Hi . Monica and Ryan ?
MONICA: Sally ?
SALLY: Yes . And you 've met Joe .
RYAN: Yes .
SALLY: Well , so glad you decided to come .
MONICA: We could hardly say no .
SALLY: Oh ? Joe slips the coke into Monica 's hand .
RYAN: At 4 30 today he barked for a solid fifteen minutes . I have it on tape .
SALLY: You 're keeping a record , are you ?
RYAN: It 's just very distracting when you 're trying to work .
MONICA: Ryan .
RYAN: I 'm sure you understand .
SALLY: Well the neighborhood is full of dogs , and it 's not always Otis .
RYAN: Well today it was Otis . And you should keep him away from our yard . Because Sheila will defend herself .
MONICA: Ryan !
SALLY: Are you working on a new book ?
RYAN: Well , yes , actually .
MONICA: He always has two or three going
SALLY: Really ? Joe ca n't manage more than one at a time . With huge gaps in between .
MAC: You lose this ?
JOE: Ah there 's our snookums now .
RYAN: Yes , well , but I have n't won a Booke either . Or the Whitebread .
MAC: The gate was open .
SALLY: Well , not yet . The gate was open ?
JOE: It 's taken care of .
MONICA: I think Ryan needs a new publisher . I think he 's outgrown him . They 're just not doing their job . A silence . Awkward smiles go all around .
SALLY: Hors d'oeuvres or something ?
MONICA: Yes , great ! It 's a beautiful house .
SALLY: Thank you . I understand you 're an interior decorator .
MONICA: Yes .
SALLY: I so wish I 'd known .
MONICA: Well , whoever did this is amazing .
SALLY: I did it .
JOE: She rarely cops to it . Otis is home .
CLAIR: Where can I put these ? Sally takes the gifts from her .
SALLY: Of course .
MAC: She already has .
CLAIR: It 's alright , is n't it ?
SALLY: Of course it 's alright .
MAC: Clair is a hovering mother .
CLAIR: I 'm not .
SALLY: This is Monica and Ryan . Mac and Clair .
CLAIR: So nice
MONICA: And for us Truly .
CLAIR: Well
MONICA: You will never know .
CLAIR: Oh . I have a four-thirty call . AM . So we may have to leave early .
SALLY: Why did n't you bring him ?
CLAIR: What ?
SALLY: Why did n't you bring him ?
CLAIR: He 's allergic .
SALLY: Oh .
CLAIR: To dander . Otis .
SALLY: Oh .
CLAIR: Did n't I say ?
SALLY: Well , probably .
CLAIR: They can tell from the eyelashes , you know ? He 's got eyelashes yay long . They must be a foot long . The older you are when you have a baby , the more likely this stuff is to crop up .
SALLY: Oh .
CLAIR: So they tell me . Not soon enough , of course . How are you , Sal ? You look fantastic . It changes your life , you know . A baby . It puts everything in perspective , does n't it . Does n't it , Mac ? You ca n't e the center of your own world , anymore .
MAC: It 's an object lesson in grace . Wow ! Look who 's here before me ! My leading man is on time for once .
CAL: Those who ca n't direct .
MAC: Fuck you .
CAL: Are those our dailies ? You 're totally outrageous . It 's their anniversary . Is nothing sacred ! Wellsohow am I ?
MAC: Oh man , you are so fucking funny in the kitchen scene .
CAL: I liked the third take , the accidental disaster with the silverware .
MAC: Nothing you do is accidental
GINA: I 'm the hired help .
JOE: Fuck you .
GINA: I never put myself in harm 's way .
JOE: Anymore .
GINA: No , not anymore . Happy anniversary , scout .
SOPHIA: Oh my God ! America told me you neighbors are coming ?
SALLY: And here they are !
SOPHIA: And she was saying how happy you were to finally have them over . Because you 're oth , so , what - introspective ? And you should have done it ages ago . I 'm Sophia Gold . Come meet my husband , Cal .
MONICA: Cal Gold ?
SOPHIA: The very one . And you are
SALLY: Monica and Ryan .
RYAN: Rose .
SOPHIA: Sorry ?
RYAN: Ryan Rose .
SOPHIA: Yes .
SALLY: He 's a novelist .
SOPHIA: Ah .
SALLY: Like Joe .
SOPHIA: Hmm . Where are my kids ?
SALLY: In the guest room . I 've laid out a paint table for them .
SOPHIA: I hope they 're watercolors !
SALLY: Nevermind .
SOPHIA: Would you like to meet my husband ?
MONICA: I 'd be thrilled .
SOPHIA: Then he 'll be thrilled . She ushers them toward the living room .
JOE: She 's such pure evil .
SALLY: Thanks for coming .
GINA: Happy anniversary . You 're a good match , you two . Can you help me with this stuff ?
JOE: That for us ?
GINA: What a nose . You missed your calling .
JOE: Can I open it ?
GINA: Sally ?
JOE: Please ?
SALLY: He 's impossible . Go on then .
JOE: I love you , Gina Taylor .
SOPHIA: You look so well , Clair . A wraith .
CLAIR: You think so ! ? I 've been working out a lot since the baby . And I 've been working . And that takes it 's toll , you know .
SOPHIA: I 'm glad that 's all over for me .
CLAIR: Do n't you miss it ?
SOPHIA: Never .
CLAIR: Really .
SOPHIA: Not for a second . Cal can have all that .
CLAIR: Really ?
SOPHIA: So where is young Jonah ?
CLAIR: With a sitter . We have a sensational sitter . Jonah 's really comfortable with her . You know , a second mom sort of . Like part of the family . Amazing with kids .
SOPHIA: What is that thing ?
CLAIR: So this sitter can always reach me . I 'm still not used to leaving him .
SOPHIA: You should have brought him .
CLAIR: Dander . He 's allergic . Otis .
SOPHIA: Oh . Do you have any pictures ?
CLAIR: Pictures . They 're always in my tote . I left my tote in the damn trailer . But ! He 's Mac all over again . Imagine Mac shrunk to two-and-a-half feet . The fact is they probably did n't even need me fo this birth .
SOPHIA: Are you the funniest person I know , o what ?
CLAIR: I ca n't think how you gave it all up , Soph .
SALLY: Borrow whatever you like .
CLAIR: I 'll change back before we leave .
SALLY: Whatever you like . I 'm afraid it 'll all e too big for you . Are you alright , Clair ?
CLAIR: I 'm fine . I 'm fine . Well , I 'm a little stressed . And I 've been taking pills to get my weight down since the baby .
SALLY: I 'd say it was down .
CLAIR: And the doctor said they might make me a little jumpy . I 've got a ghastly headache , actually .
SALLY: You want a Tylenol , or something ?
CLAIR: I 'd love a Xanex . Sally , please do n't tell Sophia that I 'm not breast feeding .
SALLY: Why would she care ?
CLAIR: You know Sophia . She 's so damned judgemental . And she 's so damned perfect . And so fucking serene . Just fucking do n't tell her . Because you know Mac thinks she 's God . And I can feel him comparing .
SALLY: You need to knock off the pills , Clair .
CLAIR: Just do n't fucking tell her .
SALLY: It 's not going to come up .
JOE: Panes ! How are you ?
PANES: Oh , you know , I am .
JOE: Has she called ?
PANES: She 'll never call again . She called last week to tell me she 'll never call again . Where 's Sally ?
SALLY: Are you lovesick ?
PANES: Suicidal . It 's much less codependent .
SALLY: Will champagne help ?
PANES: Not enough .
SALLY: Panes is here !
PANES: Oh great . Everyone stops , turns , toasts .
EVERYONE: Panes !
SKYE: Hi .
JOE: Skye !
SKYE: You 're Joe , are n't you ? I recognized you from the book jacket .
JOE: How do you do , Skye ?
SKYE: Oh , I love that . I 'm just great . I 'm so happy to be here . And I apologize for invading you . And I 'm so happy you asked me to . I 'm so touched . I know how private you and Sally are .
JOE: Yeah , well , it 's just us and a few hundred of our closest friends .
SKYE: When I read your work I felt that you knew me . Women must tell you that . And this one in particular speaks to me , do you know ? I am Genna . How many women must tell you that . And the script is wonderful . Wonderful and lean and visual
JOE: I 'm so happy you like it . I 'm so elieved you said yes , and I 'm really , um , what , thrilled , yes actually , to finally meet you .
SKYE: You 're going to be a remarkable director , a brilliant director . There 's a long moment .
JOE: I think you 're my first Goddess .
PANES: She 's even better looking in the flesh .
SALLY: Really ? I need a drink . Come hide with me .
PANES: You do n't know she 's a bitch .
SALLY: She 's all over him , are you blind ?
PANES: It could be worse .
SALLY: How ?
PANES: She could be playing the role in Joe 's movie that should be yours .
SALLY: Fuck you , Panes .
PANES: You see , that 's worse .
SALLY: I just wanted tonight to be with the people we love .
PANES: Like your business managers ?
SALLY: They 're not just our business managers , Panes .
PANES: Oh , okay , forgive me . Your neighbors are here , for fuck 's sake .
SALLY: Exactly what I mean . It 's all ruined .
PANES: It 's not ruined , for fuck 's sake . It 's one of your parties .
SALLY: I do n't want it to be just one of ou parties .
PANES: `` How are you really doing , Panes ? '' `` Lousy , thank you , I 'm falling apart . ''
SALLY: Like the last time .
PANES: No . No , not like the last time . She was the rest of my life .
SALLY: Like the last time .
PANES: I was n't finished .
SALLY: Okay .
PANES: `` We ca n't stand seeing you like this , Panes . I hate you being alone . Why do n't you stay with us for a while ? '' `` I 'd love to , thanks . ''
SALLY: It 's our anniversary , Panes .
PANES: I did n't hear me say tonight .
SALLY: We 're just feeling our way back .
PANES: `` Otherwise , we 'd insist on your being here . ''
SALLY: You know it 's true .
SKYE: Oh my God , sorry . I 'm interrupting .
SALLY: I 'll be right out .
PANES: Come on in .
SKYE: I 'm in the same room with Sally Nash . Oh my God . You 're my icon . I 've been watching your films since I was a little girl . Like , four years ago I followed you all around the Beverly Center - at least half a day , working up the courage to introduce myself . Joe enters the kitchen , watches .
SALLY: I do n't think I ever spent half a day in the Beverly Center .
SKYE: Whatever , do you remember ? I 've seen all your movies . When I was in rehab , the second time , they would n't even let us see your drug addict movie . They said you were too real . I worship you . And I could n't be more flattered , because I know the part I 'm playing in Joe 's movie is based on you as a young woman .
PANES: Not at all .
SKYE: Oh my god . I 've been so rude . I 'm Skye Davidson . Has anyone ever told you , you look like Peter Sellers ?
PANES: No , never .
SALLY: Everyday .
PANES: I 'm Levi Panes . Will you excuse us , Skye ? It 's time for Sally 's meds . Panes steers Sally out of the kitchen .
SALLY: It 's nice to meet you again . They go . Skye is left in the kitchen alone .
SKYE: Oh my God , she remembers me !
SALLY: Thank you , thank you , thank you .
CLAIR: My God , your wardrobe is incredible . It took me forever to decide . Oh , and I found Dr. X , thank you . You saved my life . She moves past them .
SALLY: Shit !
PANES: I 'd cut off her red wine if I were you .
SALLY: Shit . It 's my Galiano .
PANES: What does that mean ?
SALLY: About five thousand dollars . With my discount .
GINA: Directing suits you .
JOE: I 'm not so sure . Look again in three months .
GINA: It must be nice having so many strangers kiss your ass all of a sudden .
JOE: Ow ! Gina , you obviously need to get fucked .
GINA: Just did . Jealous ?
JOE: When does he graduate high school ?
GINA: Oh , very jealous . Joe laughs .
JOE: Shit , I forgot to call her back . She 's off on a trip somewhere . Oh God , my grandad 's flat in London 's been sold .
GINA: In Cheyene Walk ? Lucy 's going to have a meltdown . Oh , I 'm so sorry .
JOE: I should have damn well bought it . Well , we ca n't afford it . The movie 's going to eat up a year of my life and I 'm getting paid next to nothing . Do you know how much Skye Davidson 's getting ? Fou million .
GINA: Yeah , but I hear she gives a mean blow job .
JOE: You really need to be fucked .
SALLY: So how are you really doing , Panes ?
PANES: Why do n't you go fuck yourself ?
SALLY: No . Really . For real . Really .
PANES: I 'm worried about your Galiano .
SALLY: You 're a shit .
PANES: No , really , five thousand with you discount .
SALLY: Yes . Fine .
PANES: That 's it ? Yes . Fine ?
SALLY: I do n't want to talk about it .
PANES: Why not ?
SALLY: I never like to talk about my work .
PANES: Alright . Well , that 's something new .
SALLY: No . Not something new .
PANES: Well , something 's wrong .
SALLY: Nothing 's wrong . It 's great , okay ? Having the time of my life . Mac 's a fantastic director . And what can anyone say about Cal that has n't been said . And it 's great working with friends , blah lah blah .
PANES: Um . Happy for you .
SALLY: Thanks .
PANES: So tell me , how 's it going ?
SALLY: Oh you know . No doubts . No second thoughts . Am I a monster ?
PANES: You 're my best friend .
SALLY: That 's not an answer , is it ?
PANES: Yes , you 're a monster .
SALLY: Thank you , Panes .
PANES: You do n't need to thank me .
SALLY: We 're going to have to go back out there .
PANES: I guess . But neither of them moves .
JEFFREY: Let me . I 'm Jeffrey .
MONICA: Monica .
JEFFREY: And you know our friends , how ?
MONICA: We live next door .
JEFFREY: Oh . You 're them .
MONICA: Excuse me ?
JEFFREY: We 've heard lots about you .
MONICA: You have ?
JUDY: Hi .
RYAN: Hi . A little close in there .
JUDY: Yup .
MONICA: Your Eames table is incredible . And the B & B . I just put that in a client 's home , actually , but in red .
JOE: You 're an interior decorator , right ?
MONICA: Sally did all this herself ?
JOE: In fits and starts and then , later , of course , she had to accommodate me . So things shifted a little bit then , became more eclectic . And it keeps changing .
MONICA: Mmm . It says something about the two of you maybe .
JOE: Yeah , we 're in a constant state of flux . I see you 've moved up from the soft stuff .
MONICA: Oh , yes . You know Ryan 's been sobe eight years . And it 's difficult if I you know . It 's better if I do n't .
JOE: Uh-huh .
MONICA: I 'm a little nervous , so
JOE: Oh .
MONICA: A little out of my element .
JOE: No you 're not .
MONICA: Well , yes . Yes , in fact . A little on the outside , yes . And there 's been all this friction .
JOE: Hm .
MONICA: I do n't know why , but these misunderstandings have a way of escalating .
JOE: Very well put .
MONICA: I think a lot of this could have been avoided if Sally made more of an effort .
JOE: What ?
MONICA: But you 're very private people . You know , there 's a kind of elitism
JOE: Elitism ?
MONICA: The wrong word , maybe . Delete that . And , you know , the dog barks incessantly .
JOE: And you know , he really does not .
MONICA: And Ryan works at home .
JOE: And your phone calls are nasty and abusive . And I 've come this close to suing you for harassment . And you 're only here because we 're supposed to be sucking up to you . Her eyes well with tears .
MONICA: Well , that 's what Ryan thought . I was more generous , actually .
JOE: Oh shit . I 'm sorry . I 'm a total fucking maniac . Delete all that , okay ? I spoke for myself , this need n't rub off on my wife . Oh shit . I get pissy sometimes . Much worse than Otis . Otis does n't bite . It 's just , I really love my dog and he does n't really bark a lot . We live in a canyon . We hear dogs arking at night , too . And it 's not Otis . Monica starts to laugh .
MONICA: Alright .
JOE: Easy tiger .
MONICA: Alright . Please do n't tell Ryan I 'm drinking .
JOE: Scout 's honor .
MONICA: I 'll be your best friend .
JOE: We 're way past inappropriate .
MONICA: I 'll treasure this .
JOE: I need to leave you now .
MONICA: I will treasure this .
JOE: Sally ! ! ! !
SALLY: Panes ?
PANES: From Jewish Folk Poetry , a song cycle
MAC: What ?
SALLY: Trust him .
PANES: It 's Shostakovich .
SALLY: Sandy
SANFORD: The Wind Up Bird Chronicle .
SALLY: Ryan ?
RYAN: I did n't know you had this .
SALLY: Oh . Well , yes . It 's extraordinary . You think you could sign it for us ?
RYAN: Absolutely . You always wonder where you ooks end up . Why do n't we use it ?
JUDY: Good idea .
RYAN: There 's not a chance in hell anyone will get it
MAC: Down by Law .
SOPHIA: Who 's not going to get that in fifteen seconds .
JOE: Can we one at a time ? Hold it down , and one at a time . You 're last , Cal .
CAL: Why last ?
MONICA: The Katzenjammer Kids . There 's a hush .
JOE: Alright . Good . Fine , I vote for that . He writes it down .
MONICA: With a `` Z . '' K. A. T. Z .
GINA: When the Pawn Hits the Conflicts He Thinks Like a King What He Knows People hoot , throw their cocktail napkins .
SKYE: Utopia Parkway
JOE: Who 's keeping time ?
SALLY: It 's alright . Be our guests . She offers the hat .
JOE: You darling . Panes reaches into the hat .
PANES: What is it ? Joe whispers to him .
JOE: Come on , Panes
JERRY: Go ! Panes mimes a belly laugh .
JEFFREY: What the hell is that ?
SALLY: What is it Panes ? Panes sighs .
SOPHIA: Two words . He belly laughs .
JUDY: Funny . A finger to his nose - elongate the word .
SANFORD: Funnies ?
RYAN: The Katzenjammer Kids .
JERRY: It 's only just started . Great . The husband 's on the other fucking team .
MAC: Go .
JERRY: Hey ! Would you ?
MAC: It was fifteen seconds .
JERRY: I do n't think so .
MAC: Are you always this much fun ?
SALLY: Take your time , Jer .
JERRY: I 'm ready . He gives the clue `` a song . ''
CAL: Song . He gives `` cycle . ''
GINA: Cycle .
CAL: Two words . Second word .
TEAM: Think . Pain .
CAL: Ponder .
JERRY: Come on , folks .
CAL: First word . Jerry does the sign for the `` short word . ''
TEAM: To , the , but , or
MAC: Thirty seconds . Jerry turns , gives them a dirty look .
JOE: Jer . Over here . Over here .
TEAM: Second word . He strokes his beard again .
SKYE: From Jewish Folk Poetry .
JERRY: Time . Hey ! Time . Judy ! Time you guys . Hey ! !
JUDY: Ya Vhol . What are you , a fucking Nazi ?
JERRY: Well it 's fucking time .
MAC: Time .
SALLY'S TEAM: Quote . Play .
SOPHIA: Oh shit . It 's one of Cal 's . Obscure Shakespeare , folks .
SALLY'S TEAM: Tentwentythirtyseven , eight . Thirty-eighth wordthirty-seventh word .
SALLY: I did n't say a word .
MAC: Time !
JERRY: What was it ? What the fuck was it ?
SALLY: Ryan 's novel .
JERRY: Ryan 's novel ?
JUDY: Ryan 's novel , Jerry .
AMERICA: Dinner !
SALLY: Still champions .
JOE: Panes is not on your team anymore .
PANES: What did I do ?
SALLY: Panes is not on my team anymore . I 'll have Panes if I like .
AMERICA: Dinner .
SALLY: Dinner .
JOE: It 's an unfair advantage .
SALLY: You 've got Cal . You 've got Gina . You 've got Skye ? We 're the leftovers .
JOE: Okay , knock it off .
SALLY: Truce ?
JOE: Truce .
SALLY: Dinner . Do n't be angry .
JOE: I 'm not fucking angry , for God 's sake .
ASTRID: So who won ?
SALLY: A triumph . When did you get here ?
ASTRID: Ten , fifteen minutes ago .
SALLY: Why did n't you come in ?
ASTRID: I hate the sight of blood . You guys do n't take prisoners .
SKYE: Oh how sweet . The furball bares teeth and growls .
ASTRID: She 's insanely jealous .
CLAIR: That 's revolting , Astrid .
PANES: Is there space here ?
SKYE: Yes .
PANES: Do you need anything else ?
SKYE: No , no thanks .
PANES: I was impressed .
SKYE: Oh ?
PANES: The charades .
SKYE: Thank you .
PANES: That was my clue .
SKYE: Oh ?
PANES: The Shostakovich .
SKYE: Really ? ?
PANES: Oh yes , indeed . That was my clue , you see . Skye giggles appreciative response .
JOE: I hate the idea of some one else living in it .
GINA: Escape hatch .
JOE: Escape hatch . And Dad was having a go about the garden . Something was misplanted
SALLY: Not properly watered .
JOE: Whatever ! You know how he gets . Well , he went absolutely bonkers . Lucy and I were frantically trying to scramble into the dumb waiter and I did n't fit any more . It was almost fatal . And that , my dea friends , is the day
GINA: You 're not a man , Joe . You 're a boy .
JOE: So ?
GINA: I love you , Joe Therrian .
SALLY: Me too . Sophia watches from across the living room .
ASTRID: You 're not upset that I brought the dog ?
SALLY: Would it make a difference ?
ASTRID: Anouk is n't like a dog , really . More like a small person . So is there anyone here for me ? No one looks new . Who 's that ?
SALLY: You do n't want that . It 's married and it 's the neighbor .
ASTRID: Oh I think he 's cute . How 's the marriage part working out ?
SALLY: You 're fucking desperate .
ASTRID: Like you did n't know . Who invited the bimbo ?
SALLY: One guess .
SOPHIA: Part of our gift . Honey ! !
CAL: Here , here .
SKYE: I was n't prepared to say anything . I 'm honored to be a part of tonight . To be in the same room , with my favorite living actress
SAM: Still living .
SKYE: And my favorite novelist . And all thei amazing
SAM: And talented .
SKYE: Friends . And talented friends . This oom is so filled with love..
ASTRID: And the winner is
PANES: Let the woman speak .
SKYE: And I brought a gift of love . A gift that is love .
SALLY: What are they ?
JOE: Dolphins . Great .
SALLY: It 's ecstasy , Sal .
SKYE: I think there are sixteen there .
JOE: This is an amazing present . What a sweetheart you are . Skye 's pleased she 's made him happy .
SALLY: What a sweetheart you are .
ASTRID: It 's late . You sleepy baby ?
JOE: I think we should all take it tonight . Everyone 's staying , stays . No driving . That 's the rule . I love you Sally-Mae . You 're going to have a fabulous time .
SALLY: I 'm worried about my spine . I 'm very worried about my brain and my spine .
SOPHIA: Oh honey , you 're gon na love it .
JOE: Sophia 's going to do it , Panes is going to do it , trust me .
CAL: America , America God shed his light on me .
MONICA: I want to try it , Ryan .
RYAN: You know what Sally Therrian was saying about your spine and your brain ? She did n't pull that out of thin air . It causes brain damage . You 'd better drink a lot of water .
MONICA: Do you want to go home , Ryan ?
RYAN: Yes .
MONICA: I think you should then . You should look in on Sheila .
RYAN: I 'm not going to leave you alone .
MONICA: They 're really nice people , Ryan . They 're like us
RYAN: They 're nothing like us .
MONICA: I think you need to speak for yourself , Ryan . But I think you 're really nice people
RYAN: Are you making an ass of yourself ?
MONICA: There 's only you , Ryan . You know what , Ryan ? You 're beautiful . I love you so much You need
RYAN: I do n't need a drug .
MONICA: You need a good review and you 'll be fine . The whole color of the world will change , mark my words . She gets up .
RYAN: Ready to go ?
MONICA: I 'm going to go get my swimsuit . I do know , Ryan , this is non addictive so you must n't worry . Ryan , you 're a great man .
CLAIR: This water is great !
JERRY: Wan na dive for a baton ?
JUDY: Okay , I 'm about to throw five colored atons in the water . Then I 'm going to count to three , and then you may start diving . I 'm playing too . The red one is ten extra points . Ready ? One , two , three , go ! ! There is a melee of diving and screaming .
MAC: You got your DP ?
JOE: What ? Oh yeah , the camera man ? They gave me a list .
MAC: And you got Skye Davidson . Pretty big leagues for a first timer . Do you even like movies ?
JOE: Not particularly . Weird , is n't it ? God I 'm rally up . Do you feel anything yet , Mac ?
MAC: Kind of . Hey , look - John Seale , Olive Stapelton , Darius Khonji - they 're friends . And great DP 's I could give them a call for you .
JOE: Thanks , Mac . And thanks for being so supportive about all this . I really love you , you know .
MAC: Hey , I 'm happy for you , buddy . Anything I can do .
JOE: God , I really need to jump about a bit . How 's your film going ?
CAL: It 's going . It 's going .
JOE: And how 's the diva doing ?
MAC: Well , you knowgood days , bad days .
JOE: I meant Sally .
MAC: I meant Sally .
JOE: Oh . You 're serious .
MAC: No . No . Let me tell you something . Directing 's the best preparation possible fo fatherhood . The sleep depravation alone .
JOE: Oh do n't . Everyone says that .
SALLY: Is n't this a fabulous picture ?
SOPHIA: Yes .
SALLY: She 's such a great photographer .
SOPHIA: Hm .
SALLY: So where should I put it ?
SOPHIA: I thought it was okay where it was .
SALLY: It 's much more personal in here .
SOPHIA: A notch above the storage room .
SALLY: We 're always in here . She really gets him , does n't she ?
SOPHIA: The both of you .
SALLY: But she really gets to the heart of Joe , does n't she ? She 's a genius .
SOPHIA: So how much do you hate her ?
SALLY: Big time . They both laugh , then
SOPHIA: Well , I do n't trust her . I never have .
SALLY: She took our wedding photos , fo chrissakes . You do n't trust anyone .
SOPHIA: I trust you .
SALLY: Oh Soph
SOPHIA: You 'll hate it in London . It 's wet and miserable . A medical hellhole Sally . It 's socialized . Beds in the corridors . Terrible plumbing .
SALLY: And the food sucks , I know .
SOPHIA: You are not having your baby in London . You 're going to have your baby at Cedars in Beverly Hills , America , delivered by Dr. Milton Cohen . Period . And you 're getting that epidural right away , do n't let anyone talk you into any of that Lamase bullshit . There 's no excuse for pain like that .
SALLY: Sophia ! I 'm not even pregnant !
SOPHIA: Well good . Thank God .
SALLY: Let 's go in the kitchen and spy on everyone .
SOPHIA: Oh honey , let 's . They 've started to walk through the house .
SALLY: What do you mean , thank God ?
SOPHIA: Well , are you sure about this baby thing ? It 's not the ticking clock shit , is it ?
SALLY: No , no , not at all I mean I 've still got plenty of time . Do n't I ? I mean I still have a good six years , whatever . We could have three kids yet , if we wanted . And I know I 've always said I never wanted kids , and I did n't but this year , I really , truly , feel ready
SOPHIA: Honey , I 'm not worried about you . You are going to be a fantastic mom . Not an issue . I pressed you , remember ? Joe , on the other hand , is a different story .
SALLY: Oh Soph , Joe loves kids . Joe wants kids . Joe thinks he needs kids .
SOPHIA: He wants playmates . Oh he 's a sweetheart , Sal , you know I love him . But he 's not going to be a good father . He 's just not parenting material .
SALLY: Hey , let 's sit down . I bet the rug feels eally nice against your skin . Sally drops out of frame .
SOPHIA: Do n't try and change the subject . Oh God , it feels great ! He 's just a little narcissistic , irresponsible and unreliable .
SALLY: And Cal 's this massive adult ?
SOPHIA: Cal knows who he is . Did you notice how happy Joe was when the drugs came out tonight ?
SALLY: You were n't exactly horrified .
SOPHIA: I do n't have a drug problem .
SALLY: Neither does Joe .
SOPHIA: His sister does . Big time . And the New York Times says addiction is genetic I 'll e-mail you the article .
SALLY: We 're fine . We 're great . We 're having a aby and we 're moving to London .
SOPHIA: Well , you were n't fine last summer when you went Sylvia Plath on me in Connecticut .
SALLY: Not nice . Not kind .
SOPHIA: Ha ! Not half so not kind as your husband was in his portrayal of you in his novel .
SALLY: Why are you doing this ?
SOPHIA: His image of you is a possessive , fragile neurotic .
SALLY: But I am a possessive , fragile neurotic .
SOPHIA: No you are not . You 're Sally Nash . Listen to me , you 're Sally Nash . You 're my best friend and I love you more than anyone , and you 're not going to move to London to have the offspring of a sexually ambivalent man-child . `` Oh now I 'm a novelist , oh now I 'm a director '' English prick bastard Joe Therrian who 's probably going to leave you for Skye Davidson anyway . They hug a bit weepy .
JOE: Is n't Skye amazing ?
CAL: She 's got great tits .
JOE: She 's a constant surprise .
CAL: And you 've only just met .
JOE: Yeah , I know But she 's only twenty seven and The wisdom . She 's an old soul . She knew that Shostakovich thing . Did you notice ?
CAL: Absolutely . And she 's got great tits .
JOE: Yeah , God she really does have great tits , great tits . i ca n't wait to work with her .
CAL: The camera loves her . A great actress .
JOE: With great tits . I 'm going to ask her if I can touch them .
CLAIR: Has anyone seen Mac ?
JOE: I saw him wandering over there , I think . How 're you feeling , Clair ?
CLAIR: I 'm so good .
CAL: Poor Mac . It 's been a bit of a struggle . I 'm sure Sally 's told you .
JOE: No , what ?
CAL: The movie .
JOE: Oh , she 's really enjoying it . I think . Is Mac okay ?
CAL: I do n't know what 's going on . I do n't care to guess . Mac 's really unhappy . She is n't there , that 's all . She 's no idea what she 's playing , not a clue .
JOE: Who , Sally ?
CAL: And , you know it is n't rocket science , this script . She can barely get the lines out . There was a scene last week - she sobbed , through every take . I know crying 's easy for her but it 's a fucking comedy , Joe . Something 's gone . You know , that thing that was Sally - that always surprised you . It 's gone . I think she 's scared . And that 's death .
JOE: I still think she sails above the rest . I mean not like her early films . But those were all such great directors .
CAL: Mac 's a pretty great director , Joe . He 's a woman 's director . And nothing 's happening . Course he wo n't fire her , ecause of the friendship But it was discussed . He had to battle his studio to get her in the first place .
JOE: What ?
CAL: Hey , listen , I love her . She 's Sophia 's est friend . I never said any of this , alright . I 'll deny it on the stand You guys are gon na have kids . That is so great . Maybe that 's what this is all about . Maybe she does n't want to do this anymore . You know adults do n't do this for a living . You guys are gon na have your kids , you 'll be directing one asshole in the family is enough . Sophia knew that intuitively . Look at Clair . Clair 's a mess . Make sure she gets the epidural . Forget that natural childbirth shit . Everything 's going to be what it 's supposed to be . `` Life is but a walking shadow . A poor player who struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more '' And speaking of me , the ole of Leo in your film ?
JOE: Leo ?
CAL: Any thoughts on casting yet ?
JOE: Leo ? It was out to Jude Law . Jude passed .
CAL: Well , I ca n't make any promises , and of course I have n't read the script but I loved the novelwhen are you shooting ?
JOE: October-ish .
CAL: I have a small window of time .
JOE: Leo . Leo 's twenty-eight , Cal .
CAL: Scratch the two , write in a four .
JOE: Scratch the two , write in a four .
CAL: You 've got a lot of fucking gall . Thirty nine .
JOE: Five years ago , I was at the party , emember ?
MAC: No , it 's not Fuck fuck fuck fuck .
SALLY: Wellwow
CLAIR: Mac ? Oh there you are . What are you doing , honey ? No more work . Do n't you feel breezy .
MAC: I 'm in mourning .
CLAIR: You can cut around it , whatever it is . You always do .
MAC: Not this time .
CLAIR: It 's always not this time . If you can do it around me , you can do it around anyone .
MAC: You do n't have any clothes on .
CLAIR: How nice for everybody . Come swimming . The water 's glorious . You 'll fix it . You 'll come up with one of your brilliant ideas .
MAC: Or I wo n't . I ca n't help her . I 'm out of my depth .
CLAIR: Things always look much worse in the morning .
MAC: I do n't know how to make her funny .
CLAIR: You 're coming swimming in the pool , and in a few minutes you wo n't even remembe what it 's about . You wo n't care who 's in your damn movie .
MAC: What what 's about ?
CLAIR: Iwait , what are you talking about ?
JOE: Are you okay ?
MONICA: I do n't think so . I feel . I feel a bit funny .
JOE: Let 's go for a walk .
MONICA: I 've never done this before .
JOE: Oh ? It 's easy . You just put one foot in front of the other That 's a good girl .
MONICA: I 'm a little in the puke zone .
JOE: Here , drink this . Drink lots of water . Hold on to this . Take deep breaths . Nice and slow . Would you like a lolly ?
MONICA: What am I , five ?
JOE: You 're never too old for a lolly . I 'm having one .
MONICA: Okay . He pulls out another one .
JOE: Lemon or raspberry ?
MONICA: Lemon .
JOE: Lemon it is . The two suck on their lollipops for a moment .
MONICA: Ryan 's really angry with me .
JOE: I think he 's really angry with me too .
MONICA: It 's really not the same thing . He was really nicer when he drank .
JOE: I 'm sorry .
MONICA: Eight years , though . That 's quite an accomplishment .
JOE: That 's a lot of those .
MONICA: Medallions .
JOE: A lot of cakes .
MONICA: Yes .
JOE: And he does n't smoke ?
MONICA: He has to find non-smoker 's meetings that used to be almost impossible , you know ? It 's gotten much better .
JOE: How long have you been married ?
MONICA: Ninenine , yes ? Nine years , just about .
JOE: You must have been a baby .
MONICA: Oh yes . Nineteenjust . I 'm cold .
JOE: Come here . Joe holds Monica .
MONICA: That 's very nice .
JOE: I like you .
MONICA: I 'm so glad . You know , I recognize that passage in your book . The bit about us unning into each other in the movie theatre .
JOE: Sorry ?
MONICA: I know you changed it to a bookstore . And the color of my hair . But the moment was exactly the same . The same , you know , dynamic . And almost verbatim , was n't it ?
JOE: Yeah , it was . For a writer nothing 's sacred . No , nothing at all .
MONICA: I think it 's great that I made an impression at all , you know .
JOE: Oh for fuck 's sake . Nobody uses that gate .
MONICA: I 'm sorry .
SALLY: There 's a goddamn sign on the gate .
MONICA: I 'm so sorry .
SALLY: You fucking cow , ca n't you read ? !
SALLY: How long ago was it ?
JOE: Stop being such a bitch , Sal .
MONICA: I 'm so sorry .
JOE: It was a mistake . This is n't a plot to do in Otis .
SALLY: Do n't be so sure .
JOE: Listen to yourself Do n't worry , it 's alright . We 'll find him . What 's wrong with you ?
SALLY: She left the fucking gate open .
JOE: Well he ca n't have gone far .
SALLY: Ca n't have gone far ? He 's like a greyhound . He could be miles away .
JOE: He 'll find his way back .
SALLY: There are fucking coyotes out there .
JOE: Sally , calm down . We 're not going to find him any quicker by you being hysterical . Monica retreats , backs off a step or two .
SALLY: Fuck you .
JOE: Or shitty ! ! Otis ! !
RYAN: How long have you worked for the Therrians ?
AMERICA: A long time .
RYAN: So you were here when they were doing the work on the boundary fence ?
AMERICA: Oh yes .
RYAN: Did you know the contractor ?
AMERICA: Very well .
RYAN: Was it a contractor ?
AMERICA: It 's the way they do things .
RYAN: To code ?
AMERICA: You should talk to Mr. Joe . Monica bursts into the room .
MONICA: Ryan , you 've got to come ! You 've got to help me find the dog ! I let their dog out . We need to find the dog .
RYAN: You 're not serious .
MONICA: I left the gate open and Otis got out ! He could get hit by a car !
RYAN: God willing .
MONICA: We have to find the dog , Ryan .
RYAN: Why ?
MONICA: Because we 're nice people , and because what goes around comes around . Because , God help you if something happens to that dog ?
RYAN: Excuse me ?
MONICA: All the ugly phone calls ? We 're not the only people with a tape recorder , Ryan . They 've gone to the canyon , we should go towards the PCH .
PANES: Otis ! ! Shostakovich identified with the Jew . He felt persecuted , hunted , crushed under the thumb of Stalinist imperialism .
SKYE: Not to mention Andrew Zhdanov Otis , come ! !
PANES: Andre Zhdanov ? How the hell do you know about Andre Zhdanov ?
SKYE: Who does n't know about the infamous composer 's conference of 1948 where Zhdanov persecuted the leaders of Soviet Music - Shostakovich , Prokofieve , and Myaskovsky .
PANES: I 'll tell you who does n't know , cute girls do n't know .
SKYE: Do Peter Sellers again .
PANES: Otis you crazy dog ! Otis are you in this God forsaken Canyon ? My people are very hungry .
SKYE: I just did a movie about Bob Yar , I played Gittle , the Jewish milkmaid who gets shot in the head , and they used Shostakovich 's 13th Symphony .
PANES: Set to the poem of Yetveshenko !
SKYE: Exactly ! So I dug it , and I did a lot of esearch .
PANES: Do you really , you really , like Shostakovich ?
SKYE: Yeah .
PANES: Would you , like , marry him ?
SKYE: If he were still alive , maybe .
PANES: How about someone who really really liked Shostakovich ?
SKYE: Are you asking me to marry you ?
PANES: No , I 'm just testing to see how deeply perverted and impulsive you are .
SKYE: Very .
PANES: Oh good , I 'm worse Are you really twenty-two ?
SKYE: Who told you that ? No . I 'm twenty Five .
SALLY: Otis ! ! ! !
JOE: Otis ! ! ! !
SALLY: Otis , good boy , come here . Oh my god , oh my god , oh my god .
JOE: This is a nightmare . We should have kept him upstairs .
SALLY: It was done . When Sophia put the kids to ed , America brought Otis in the room and closed the door . It was done .
JOE: Well someone clearly let him out before Monica opened the gate .
SALLY: Oh fuck you , and fuck Monica while you 're at it . But I guess that 's what I interrupted .
JOE: Jesus , Sally . You are a medical miracle . The only person who 's ever taken ecstacy and become angrier .
SALLY: Yeah , let 's talk about that . You seem to e rather an expert . I do n't remember in the last five months of counselling you ever mentioning ecstacy or going to rage parties .
JOE: Rave parties ? ! That 's so typical - you would think it was called rage . Perfect !
SALLY: What else do n't I know about , Joe ? Let 's get really clear here .
JOE: Sally , so I took a few pills . I went out dancing . I tried to forget how upset I was about splitting up with you . I have n't lied to you . I told you about the people I 've slept with . I just did n't mention the few occasions I took drugs because you 're so fucking judgmental I knew I 'd never hear the end of it , and you have so little faith and so little trust in me . Sally , we 're ack , I love you . Trust that . Please let 's not do this .
SALLY: Otis ! Come ! Good boy ! Come !
JOE: Otis !
SALLY: I 'm not sure we understand that word in the same way .
JOE: Love ?
SALLY: You walked out on a five year marriage .
JOE: That has n't the first fucking thing to do with love . It 's whether we can live together like this ! All the time .
SALLY: It 's not like this all the time .
JOE: DO I want anyone else ? No . Do I want to e with you for the rest of my natural life ? I 'm trying .
SALLY: And how hard it hit ?
JOE: Just stop right there , Sally . We 've been through this .
SALLY: You 've been through it . That 's how you love people . When it 's easy for you , when it 's convenient for you .
JOE: Sally , first of all , you 're talking ullshit . And second
SALLY: You want to talk about bullshit ? Lucy called you three times this week . She 's a fucking mess , Joe . Your sister is a fucking mess . She needs you . I talk to her more than you do .
JOE: That is not true .
SALLY: It is true . You know how you love , Joe ? You dedicate a book to someone .
JOE: Every novel I 've had published in every language I 've dedicated to Lucy .
SALLY: Right . And when was the last time you spoke to her ? Joe is silent .
JOE: It 's a novel .
SALLY: About me !
JOE: Who the fuck do you think you are ? The part of Genna is not just about you . It 's about every woman I 've ever loved in my entire life . Including my mother . The character is also clearly in he early twenties , Sally .
SALLY: What are you saying ?
JOE: Hello ? Last birthday was ?
SALLY: I do n't look my age , Joe .
JOE: Sally , I have never considered you fo this part because you are too old to play it . And you are out of touch with eality if you think differently .
SALLY: It 's a shit novel anyway .
JOE: Well there you go . I let you off the hook . You 're one goddamn lucky actress .
SALLY: Not really . I mean your books have always been pop , but this is the shallowest of the bunch . That 's what all our friends think , anyway .
JOE: Okay . If we could 've , by some miracle , stripped ten years off your face , still could n't have got the thing made . Because I do n't mean anything as a director , and your name does n't mean fuck all anymore . And the people that can hire you are afraid to , because they think you 're phoning it in . That you do n't have Oh Christ , Sally .
SALLY: Who ? Who ? Who thinks that ?
JOE: Your director and your co-star of you current movie . Do n't dish if you ca n't take it , Sally .
SALLY: Mac ? Mac says it ? Cal ? Joe does n't respond .
JOE: Sally , for Christ 's sake .
SALLY: Anyone else ?
JOE: This is insanity . Sally
SALLY: Do n't .
JOE: Do n't push me away .
SALLY: I had an abortion two weeks ago .
JOE: Do n't do this .
SALLY: I found out I was pregnant and it scared the shit out of me .
JOE: Do n't do this !
SALLY: I told you when we met I never wanted children . I do n't want kids in my life . We talked about it . You were n't listening .
JOE: You changed your mind .
SALLY: I wanted you back . Joe slaps her hard across the face .
JOE: What ? ! You aborted our child ? !
SALLY: I 'm a monster . Exactly .
JOE: You 're not ready .
SALLY: Do n't make allowances . I 'll never be eady . Some people just should n't have children . I 'd be a terrible fucking mother , Joe . I did want it for us . But I could n't do it . I do n't really think I can do it .
JOE: I was n't part of that picture at all , was I ? I was n't part of that decision . Did I occur to you at all ? It 's a fucking farce . It 's a fucking farce . How long did you think you could keep it going . You 're amazing . Do you have any idea what you 've done to us ?
SALLY: Yes .
JOE: I 'll never forgive you .
SALLY: I know .
JOE: I have no idea who you are .
CLAIR: Oh my God . Honey ? ? ? There 's a moment . Mac begins to sob .
JERRY: He 's okay , Clair . You wan na give him a little room ?
MAC: Man , I must really be stoned . Thanks , buddy .
CLAIR: Honey ?
MAC: I 'm fine , babe .
JERRY: Give him a minute , Clair .
MAC: Hey . Thanks , buddy .
JERRY: Anytime , sport .
MAC: Yeah , thanks pal .
CLAIR: Honey ?
MAC: I 'm fine , babe . I 'm gon na take a little walk . I need a minute . Let 's forget it . My life did n't pass in front of my eyes . So , it probably was n't that close .
JERRY: Probably not .
MAC: So , you 've got lifeguard papers , or what ?
JUDY: There 's a test , you know .
JERRY: Forget it , Judy .
CLAIR: Honey ?
MAC: I 'll be fine . Really babe . Give me a minute .
MAN'S VOICE: Joe , Joe ! It 's your Dad ! Pick up , Joe
GINA: Harry , hi , it 's Gina ! Gina . Is everything alright ? Oh my God . When ? He 's not here . They 're out looking for Otis . The dog , Harry . I love you so much . Lucy 's a fighter , she 'll make it . Whether she wants to o not . Harry . I 'm so sorry . I will . Yes I will . Take care , Harry . Bye .
JUDY: Are you my big brave boy ? Are you my ave hero ?
JERRY: You 're crazy baby . I love you .
JUDY: Are you my big hard hero ?
JERRY: Do you want me to save you ? Do you want me to save you ?
JUDY: Oh yeah
JERRY: Oh yeah I 'm gon na save you .
JUDY: Oh yeah ?
JERRY: Let me heal you , baby .
JUDY: Oh Jesus oh Jesus oh Jesus . Grunts , groans , a scream , a peel of giggles .
JERRY: Oh yeah .
SOPHIA: no , no , start again .
CLAIR: I 've lost my husband and my beeper . Have either of you seen either of them ?
JOE: What is it ?
GINA: Let 's go upstairs , okay ? Joe looks from Gina to the others .
SALLY: Is it Otis ? Skye and Panes look at the other guests .
SKYE: What happened ?
JOE: The suspense is killing me .
GINA: Harry called .
JOE: And ?
GINA: Lucy overdosed .
JOE: But she 's alright .
GINA: She 's in ICU .
JOE: Stupid tart .
GINA: She left a note .
JOE: Fuck you . Tears start down Sally 's face .
GINA: You need to call your dad .
JOE: Leave us alone right now .
GINA: I 've booked you a flight and packed you a ag . You just need to get into a car and go .
SALLY: Would you leave us alone right now ?
GINA: I love her too , Joe .
JOE: Alright , good . Thanks for your trouble . So will you leave Sally and me alone ight now ?
SALLY: Everybody hates the messenger . Gina exits .
JOE: I do n't want you to go .
SALLY: I 'll be with you .
JOE: I do n't want to go tonight .
SALLY: You do n't have to .
JOE: Stupid tart .
MAC: How 's he doing ?
SALLY: Not good .
GINA: He 's gon na miss his flight .
SALLY: Yeah . Al the guests are a little stunned .
GINA: Is he not going ? I booked a flight .
SALLY: He 's not going tonight .
GINA: I told his father he 'd be on that flight .
SALLY: Well you could tell him otherwise . It was good of you to be all this help . But he does n't want to go tonight .
GINA: Jesus , Sally . I 'm not the enemy .
SALLY: And you 're not the wife .
GINA: It 's not a contest .
SALLY: Damn straight .
CAL: Should I go up ?
SALLY: I do n't think so .
CAL: You want us to stay ?
SALLY: Maybe not .
MAC: So much for ecstacy , right ? They all laugh a little .
SOPHIA: Let 's get the kids .
CLAIR: Oh my God , the sitter .
SALLY: Oh Clair , you 're so You know . You just put things in perspective .
JOE: Hey , Dad
SOPHIA: I 'm going to be home all weekend , call if you need anything . Sally kisses Cal 's cheek .
CAL: Hang in .
SALLY: Oh perfect !
JERRY: I call that a perfect day .
JUDY: A perfect night .
JERRY: Damn near . And a damn near perfect drug .
JUDY: Hm . We should do it again .
JERRY: Just every once in a blue moon , you know .
JUDY: Hm . You think we should ask them for thei landscaper ?
JERRY: Hm . Do you like fucking out of doors ?
JUDY: Not as a rule .
JERRY: They did n't sign their goddamn tax eturns !
GINA: Take good care of it .
SALLY: Count on it .
RYAN: Jesus Christ , it 's a fucking dog !
MONICA: Do n't go in , Ryan .
RYAN: What ?
MONICA: Let 's just go home , okay ?
PANES: Coffee ?
JOE: Sure .
PANES: I 'll do it .
SALLY: You do n't need to do that .
SKYE: I do n't mind
SALLY: Relax . You 've done enough .
JOE: Can I come in ? Sally looks up at the nakedness .
SALLY: Sure .
OE: My plane leaves in a few hours .
SALLY: Okay . Do you want me to come with you ?
JOE: No .
SALLY: Okay .
JOE: Pretty much a disaster , tonight , was n't it ?
SALLY: I guess .
JOE: Life gets messy . Ugly messy . But I do n't understand you . And I do n't think I ever understood Lucy . I do n't understand throwing it away . How do you throw all that away ? Any of it . I want it all . You guys want guarantees ? I want the possibilities . And all kinds of crap comes with that . A lot of bad shit . And I think that 's okay with me because , ecause of the rest of the stuff . All the good shit . All the surprises . It 's a fucking miracle when you come down to it . We 'd have had amazing children , you and me . We 'd have had a ride . You 'd have surprised yourself . I 'll never love anybody else , you know .
SALLY: Me too .
JOE: That 's under lock and key .
SALLY: Me too .
JOE: Happy anniversary .
SALLY: It 's a Calder .
JOE: I know .
SALLY: He 's my favorite .
JOE: I know . It 's for the baby 's crib .
SALLY: Ah
JOE: Oh , Sally Mae He ca n't say anymore .
SALLY: I know .
JOE: Will you make love with me ?
SALLY: Sure . She reaches out with both arms .
PROLOGUE: Soul of the Age ! The applause , delight , the wonder of our stage ! Our Shakespeare , rise Our Shakespeare For he is all of ours , is he not ? The most performed playwright of all time ! The author of 37 plays , 154 sonnets , and several epic poems that are collectively known as the ultimate expressions of humanity in the English language . And yet And yet Not a single manuscript of any kind has ever been found written in Shakespeare 's own hand . In fou hundred years , not one document be it poem , play , diary or even a simple letter . He was born the son of a glove-maker , and at some unknown time , armed with ut an elementary school education , he went to London where , the story goes , he became an actor and eventually a playwright .
POLE: Break it down !
JONSON: I 'm a writer , are n't I ? Of course I 've bloody well been
FIGURE: Ask him about the plays .
JONSON: Plays ? Which would you prefer , my lord ? A pastoral ? An historical ? An historical-pastoral , or an hysterical historical pastoral
OXFORD: Well , it 's certainly big .
SOUTHAMPTON: I promise you , Edward , you 've seen nothing like it before ! Nothing !
OXFORD: Bricklayers and whores watching Aristophones ? You 're quite right , Henry , not only have I never witnessed it , I 'm not sure I care to .
SOUTHAMPTON: You 're an elitist , you know that , Edward ? Oxford pauses at the entrance .
OXFORD: There wo n't be puppets , will there ?
USHER: My lords
SOUTHAMPTON: The stage-craft is quite spectacular . Far more elaborate than anything I 've seen at court . I 've witnessed be- headings that god as my witness look as real as at the Tower , cannons fired in battle
OXFORD: An ap mekhanes thes . Deus ex machina . Machine of the Gods .
SHAKESPEARE: And whither were you riding now , signior ?
"FASTIDIOUS": Who , I ? What a silly jest 's that ! Whither should I ride but to the court ?
SHAKESPEARE: O , pardon me , sir , twenty places more ; your hot-house , your pig-house , o your whore-house !
NASHE: His second play , and almost a full house . He 's got a wit , does Jonson .
MARLOWE: That might be so , but like a grain of wheat hid in a bushel of chaff you shall seek all day ere you find it , and when you have it , it 's not worth the search !
WOMAN: Ale ! Ale ! !
DEKKER: Marlowe spot me a few pence , will you ? Henslowe still owes me fo `` Shoemaker 's Holiday '' .
MARLOWE: That would be because no one saw `` Shoemaker 's Holiday '' .
DEKKER: Ale here ! Marlowe gives the woman a few pennies as
NASHE: Kit Is n't that one of you unrequited loves in the box ove there ? Marlowe glances across the theater and spots Southampton siting next to Oxford .
MARLOWE: But with whom ? Tell me not he prefers the company of such old grey men as that ! Nashe squints .
NASHE: I think yes , by the beard , that 's the Earl of Oxford . Old Tom Hooke used to play for him . Had his own acting troupe for private Court performances and the like .
DEKKER: I wonder if he needs any material ?
MARLOWE: Certainly not any of yours .
NASHE: No , no that was years ago . Had a falling out with the Queen , I heard . He 's more of a recluse than a patron these days .
SHAKESPEARE: Who , he , the noble there ? Why , he 's a gull , a fool , no salt in him i ' the earth ; man , he looks like a fresh salmon kept in a tub !
A GROUNDLING: Oi ! So that 's what I been smelling ! More groundlings laugh . Interestingly
SHAKESPEARE: He has his skin tann 'd in civet , to make his complexion strong , and the sweetness of his youth lasting in the sense of his sweet lady . And , sadly , the poor man 's brain is lighter than his feather As the audience HOWLS in laughter , we see
SHAKESPEARE: Ale ? Me ? Drink during a performance ? I am a professional sir ! A complete and
POLE: This play has been declared seditious and illegal by Lord William Cecil !
A GROUNDLING: Why do n't you disperse William Cecil 's arse !
POLE: Arrest that man !
SOUTHAMPTON: Damn it all . Well ! Off to Essex 's then ?
JONSON: Seditious ? Seditious ? ! It 's a comedy for god 's sake ! There 's nothing seditious about
POLE: Oi , is that right , is it ? And you know this because ?
JONSON: Because I wrote the bloody thing ! And-
POLE: Arrest him as well ! Jonson is grabbed by guards .
JONSON: A pox on you ! And your carbuncled father !
ESSEX: and how do the Cecils spend thei time and energy ? Shutting a theater ! A theater , for god 's sake ? It 's madness ! No wonder the mob hates them so !
OXFORD: Out !
SOUTHAMPTON: Hmm ? I 'm not sure , two thousand , maybe more .
OXFORD: And how many performances are there of a play like that ?
SOUTHAMPTON: Five or six I suppose .
ESSEX: By the !
OXFORD: So ! Ten thousand souls . All listening to the writings of one man the ideas of one man . That 's power , Robert . And if there is one thing the Cecils understand , it 's power .
ESSEX: And when did words ever win a kingdom ? I think I 'll keep my sword , thank you very much .
SOUTHAMPTON: To James ? Elizabeth would never agree to-
ESSEX: Elizabeth is old . Ill. Not of he old mind . Sometimes she does n't even ecognize me . And yet , still she efuses to name an heir .
SOUTHAMPTON: But a Scotsman ? On the Tudor throne ?
ESSEX: You are not in the Privy Council . Elizabeth does everything the Cecils wish of her . Everything !
SOUTHAMPTON: You know you need not ask . I stand with you , as I always have .
OXFORD: Essex played rather poorly , did n't he ?
SOUTHAMPTON: You heard ? Oxford nods .
OXFORD: I would have you deny him .
SOUTHAMPTON: The son of the Queen ?
OXFORD: That is rumor only , Henry
SOUTHAMPTON: Rumor ? My god , all you have to do is look at Essex to see the Queen 's eflection . Everyone thinks he 's he son , everyone ! And I for one would ather bow to a Tudor , bastard though he may be , than a Scotsman !
OXFORD: I desire nothing more than to see the next king be the rightful king . But what Essex contemplates will surely lead to Civil War . No . If this is to be done , it must be done carefully , skillfully .
SOUTHAMPTON: As I heard it , Elizabeth exiled you from her presence for the last twenty years because of your `` skill '' at Court politics .
OXFORD: I only have your interests in mind , Henry . For as you so rightly point out , my interests are already lost .
SOUTHAMPTON: I know . Forgive me . You know how I feel about you . You have been a great friend to me ever since my fathe died . I promise you that I will do nothing rash without consulting you first .
OXFORD: Henry ! Will you do me one thing more ? Deliver a gift for me ? A rather elaborate gift ?
SOUTHAMPTON: Sir Robert .
ROBERT CECIL: My lord of Southampton . Have you seen Essex ?
SOUTHAMPTON: I believe he is still in the viewing chamber with her majesty
ROBERT CECIL: Alone ?
SOUTHAMPTON: With your father in London dealing with all the troubles in Ireland , who else should the Queen turn to but Essex ?
FOOTMAN: By the grace of god , her majesty , Elizabeth , Queen of England , Wales and Ireland !
ESSEX: Ah Majesty , I 've been told my lord of Southampton has a gift for you .
ELIZABETH: A gift ?
SOUTHAMPTON: Yes , your grace , though not from me .
ELIZABETH: Are you this gift , my precious little man ?
DWARF: No , no , my most majestic majesty . I am a free man . My gift is a play , majesty .
ELIZABETH: A play ? The dwarf bows his assent .
ROBERT CECIL: Plays are the work of the devil , born from a cesspool of plague , whoredom , thievery , fornication , and heresy . You may tell your master that he majesty
ESSEX: Will gladly accept your gift . Robert Cecil turns to Essex , shocked .
ELIZABETH: Comedy ? Or tragedy ?
DWARF: Comedy , majesty .
ELIZABETH: A comedy !
DWARF: By Anonymous , your majesty
ELIZABETH: Anonymous ? Oh , but I do so admire his verse
"BOTTOM": I see their knavery this is to make an ass of me ; to fright me , if they could . But I will not stir from this place , do what they can .
"TITANIA": What angel wakes me from my flow'ry ed ?
"PUCK": If we shadows have offended , think but this , and all is mended , that you have ut slumber 'd here while these visions did appear
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Lovely . Lovely !
BOY OXFORD: I did indeed , your majesty .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: You sport with me . Compose something .
BOY OXFORD: Now ?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Yes . Now .
BOY OXFORD: On what subject , your grace ? She thinks . Then
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Truth
BOY OXFORD: For Truth is Truth Though never so old and time can not make that false , which once was true . She smiles , claps .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: My lord of Oxford . It seems you have added a poet to your family 's long line of warriors .
BOY OXFORD: Madam , I am as accomplished with the sword and the musket as I am with verse .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Are you indeed ?
BOY OXFORD: It is my only desire to one day be your majesty 's most trusted servant in matters both of war and state , if you will but have me .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Why , Lord Cecil , it seems we may very well have found your replacement .
WILLIAM CECIL: We hope not too soon , majesty , we hope not too soon .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: And how liked you our young lord 's play , William ? William Cecil stiffens in discomfort .
WILLIAM CECIL: That is God 's decision , your majesty . Not mine .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Well , if plays are indeed such a sin , I pray I do not find my salvation until very late in life .
JONSON: And who are you ? Francesco just stares back .
JONSON: My lord
OXFORD: The Tudor rose . The most beautiful of flowers , do n't you think ?
JONSON: It looks to me to have quite a numbe of thorns , my lord .
OXFORD: So it does . So it does .
JONSON: I am told , my lord , that I owe my freedom to you .
OXFORD: That is true . And it was quite hard to come by . One does not cross my father-in-law lightly . Jonson does n't know who he is talking about .
JONSON: My lord I 'm sorry , does that mean my elease is not officially sanctioned ?
OXFORD: Do n't be an idiot Jonson , of course it was n't . But you are free , are you not ?
JONSON: Thank you , my lord .
OXFORD: But it 's politics did seem to have quite an effect on the Tower . My father-in-law 's men felt it quite seditious .
JONSON: Politics ? My play had nothing to do with politics ! It was just a simple comedy
OXFORD: That showed your betters as fools who go through life barely managing to get food from plate to mouth , were it not for the cleverness of their servants . All art is political , Jonson . Otherwise it would just be decoration . And all artists have something to say , otherwise they 'd make shoes . And you 're not a cobbler , are you , Jonson ?
JONSON: A play , my lord ?
OXFORD: One you shall stage Bankside .
JONSON: Stage ?
OXFORD: Under your name .
JONSON: My name , my lord ?
OXFORD: I ca n't very well use my name , can I ? I 'm the seventeenth Earl of Oxford . The Lord Great Chamberlain of England , Viscount Bolebec , Lord Escales , Sandford and Badlesmere , etc , etc . No . I have a reputation to protect . In my world , one does not write plays , Jonson . People like you do . Jonson tries not to be offended .
JONSON: Yes . My lord . You wrote an entire play , my lord . I know how difficult
OXFORD: Not a play , Jonson , I 've written many . No doubt , many more than you yourself . A good number performed at Court years ago , others never seen by a living soul .
JONSON: And you want me to apply my name to this play ?
OXFORD: No . I mean you to put your name to all of them .
JONSON: All of them ?
OXFORD: Well do n't look like I just gutted your pet dog , Jonson . I mean to make you the most popular and therefore the most monetarily successful playwright in all of London . Jonson pales . This is a disaster for him .
JONSON: My lord I really
FRANCESCO: That is for your trouble , Signo Jonson . And your silence . If I hea you break that silence , then not so good for Signor Jonson .
JONSON: Hello ? My lord ? ! I
WILLIAM CECIL: So ! I am gone for three days , and you somehow manage to let her spend all of them solely in the company of the Earl of Essex
ROBERT CECIL: He is an Earl , father . I can not deny him
WILLIAM CECIL: Of course not ! You do n't deny him anything . You find excuses . She is unwell , she is reading , she is seeing the Ambassador from Russia . For God 's sake , use your imagination , Robert . Whatever will you do when I am gone ? We will have to deal with Essex soon . His ambitions are becoming a nuisance .
ROBERT CECIL: It it was an anonymous gift . Essex insisted it be performed , just to spite me in front of Court
WILLIAM CECIL: Of course he did . But what was it about ?
ROBERT CECIL: About ? Some nonsense about fairies and cherubs .
WILLIAM CECIL: And dancing asses ?
ROBERT CECIL: Father It was just a play
WILLIAM CECIL: And do you know how long it took me to anish them from her presence ? She adores them ! Adores them ! And Edward knows it . Mark my words , Robert , he has done this for a purpose .
ROBERT CECIL: Purpose ? What purpose ?
WILLIAM CECIL: What purpose indeed ? But through your carelessness I must now deal not only with Essex , but Edward as well . For whether in shadow or in person , Edward has returned to Court ! And with that he slams the door shut .
YOUNG ANNE: I am sorry for your loss , my lord . The realm lost a great lord with you father 's death . We hope you will be happy in our house
YOUNG OXFORD: No . Only until I reach my maturity .
WILLIAM CECIL: Because the Queen has bade it so . My lord , when we first met , you said you wished to become a great man of State . Both the Queen and I hope to make that so .
YOUNG OXFORD: Monsieur . Ca me fait plaisir de vous connaitre . Master Crane bows his head .
WILLIAM CECIL: Nine to ten is Greek with Miste Simmons .
YOUNG OXFORD: Dalon , an d'ego , hoti mathamata ge esti ha trafo psychas .
WILLIAM CECIL: And you know your uncle , Miste Golding , who has petitioned me to allow you to assist him in his translations of ancient Latin texts into English .
YOUNG OXFORD: Continetne , ut spero , Ovidii Metamorphose ? Mihi honori erit , patrue Mister Golding bows his head in appreciation .
WILLIAM CECIL: Then cosmography with Doctor Richards . Two to three is geography and history , and four to five fencing . William Cecil seems to have finished .
YOUNG OXFORD: And composition ? Poetry ?
WILLIAM CECIL: This is a Puritan home , your grace . We believe such activities to be the worship of false idols , and therefore a sin before the eyes of God .
YOUNG OXFORD: A sin ? But surely there must be room for beauty and art in life , my lord .
WILLIAM CECIL: Not in this household .
YOUNG OXFORD: You were losing anyway .
CONT'D: You know I am going to one day succeed my father at the Queen 's side . Not you .
YOUNG OXFORD: Really ?
SHAKESPEARE: Is it any good ?
JONSON: How in blazes should I know ?
SHAKESPEARE: You have n't even read it ? And Shakespeare is drawn back
JONSON: I read a line or two I promised Henslowe I 'd finish `` Eastward Ho '' by Saturday .
SHAKESPEARE: And you say he 's a nobleman ? Jonson does n't answer .
JONSON: I tell you Will I came to London to ecome a great poet , to , to , be the conscience of our times , the soul of our age ! To change the world , not to ecome someone else 's
SHAKESPEARE: Change the world ? With rhyme ?
JONSON: Yes , why not ? Why ca n't a man change the world with words ? Shakespeare laughs at him .
SHAKESPEARE: You know , it 's actually not half ad
JONSON: Not half ? ! You 're an actor , what in God 's name do you know about writing ? ! He 's an amateur , Will , a complete and utter amateur . Last week gardening , this week playwrighting , next week hawking . No . I wo n't do it . It would be an affront against the Muses
SHAKESPEARE: Well we mus n't offend the muses , whatever we do . How much money did you say he gave you ?
JONSON: What , you think my name can be bought , if the number 's great enough , do you ? Shakespeare smiles enigmatically .
SHAKESPEARE: No , not at all I think we should keep your good name quite intact , thank you very much . Jonson frowns , confused as we
ELIZABETH: Ireland ?
WILLIAM CECIL: There are rumors of his sending financial aid , and even troops . We must act quickly . We must replace the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland , and send additional troops immediately , majesty .
ELIZABETH: Replace ? With whom ? William Cecil hesitates slightly , then
WILLIAM CECIL: I would recommend the Earl of Essex , your majesty .
ELIZABETH: Essex ? To Ireland ? For how long ?
WILLIAM CECIL: As long as the present crisis warrants , majesty .
ELIZABETH: Impossible . He can not be spared . We feel his counsel is of greater import with each passing day . Not what William Cecil wanted to hear .
WILLIAM CECIL: I only recommend we send your most able subjects where they are most needed , majesty . Philip of Spain dreams still of taking your kingdom from you .
ELIZABETH: But Essex ?
WILLIAM CECIL: Essex 's martial abilities are , in my opinion , the only antidote to the plague of Philip . Though , Essex would not , unfortunately , be able to remain in the Privy Council if he is in Ireland
ELIZABETH: And who would you advise to replace him ?
WILLIAM CECIL: Sir Robert Cecil .
ELIZABETH: Your son ?
WILLIAM CECIL: He is my own advisor first , my son second , majesty . His counsel has been invaluable to me , and no doubt will be to you as well .
ELIZABETH: Yes , yes , yes . We will send Essex to Ireland and place Robert on my Privy Council .
WILLIAM CECIL: By your own hand !
YOUNG OXFORD: He was stealing my poems .
WILLIAM CECIL: He was doing my bidding !
YOUNG OXFORD: Yours ?
WILLIAM CECIL: Of course . As soon as Robert informed me that you were disobeying my express
YOUNG OXFORD: Robert ? Robert told William Cecil SLAMS his fists on a table .
WILLIAM CECIL: Enough ! Thou shalt not worship false idols in my household ! You everlasting soul hangs in the balance . Not poems . Your soul !
YOUNG OXFORD: My poems are my soul !
WILLIAM CECIL: You have placed me in a grave position , Edward .
YOUNG OXFORD: Sir . For the last three years you have managed to seize much of my inheritance
WILLIAM CECIL: Hold your tongue , Edward , before you make a claim you can not retract ! I have been legally reimbursed for you education and living expenses .
YOUNG OXFORD: And now you suggest you be `` reimbursed '' the rest of my once considerable estates through you daughter 's bed ? William Cecil studies Young Oxford 's face .
WILLIAM CECIL: No . This is how I suggest you keep your noble head from the executioner 's lock .
BISHOP: and in the fear of god , duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained . One was the procreation of children
NASHE: `` Henry V '' by No one ?
MARLOWE: And why would any of you admit to trying to better me in a historical drama ? Comedy , yes , tragedy , perhaps . But never will one of you best me in historicals .
"PROLOGUE": Oh , for a muse of fire , that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention . A kingdom for a stage , princes to act , and monarchs to behold the swelling scene ! Then should warlike Harry , like himself , assume the port of Mars , and at his heels should famine , sword , and fire crouch for his employment . Can this cockpit hold the vasty fields of France ?
"HENRY V": This day is called the feast of Crispian he that outlives this day , and comes safe home , will stand a tip- toe when this day is named , and rouse him at the name of Crispian .
"SALISBURY": My sovereign lord , bestow yourself with speed . The French are bravely in their battles set and will with all expedience charge on us .
"HENRY V": All things are ready , if our minds be so .
"WESTMORELAND": Perish the man whose mind is backward now !
"HENRY V": You know your places God be with you all !
SOUTHAMPTON: William Cecil 's convinced the Queen that only Essex can save Ireland from the Revolt . Oxford processes this .
OXFORD: Henry
SOUTHAMPTON: I ask for your blessing , Edward .
OXFORD: I ca n't give it to you .
NASHE: I for one wish to see this anonymous colleague of ours . Playwright ! Playwright ! ! Marlowe and others join in . And
SOUTHAMPTON: If he is to be my king , then it is my sacred duty to be with him in battle .
OXFORD: Henry Henry ! ! But the younger man is gone .
SHAKESPEARE: I , I It 's been I , I , want to thank my actors , whose great acting brought my words to life due to their most finest acting . Ah Thank you .
OXFORD: An actor for god 's sake ?
JONSON: My lord , I thought that
OXFORD: You presumed to think ? On my behalf ? Whatever made you believe you had that prerogative ? A beat . Jonson is a bit afraid .
JONSON: My lord , your voice is completely different than mine . My , my , my characters are
OXFORD: Voice ? You have no voice ! That 's why I chose you ! You at least kept my name from him ? Jonson NODS .
JONSON: All , my lord ? Is that possible ?
OXFORD: Of course it is !
ANNE: Who was that man ? I 've seen him efore .
OXFORD: Dowry ? He remembers when he spies his daughter .
ANNE: She can not go into marriage without a dowry that is becoming to the daughte of the Earl Oxford .
OXFORD: I can give her Brooke House and a hundred pounds .
BRIDGET: A hundred pounds ? Father ? Mother !
OXFORD: That is all we have to give at the moment .
ANNE: Edward . Edward ! Speak to me ! Ou family is in financial ruins , and , and you , you play the flute while Rome urns ! Oxford turns .
OXFORD: Nero fiddled whilst Rome burned . And then he goes back to writing .
ANNE: For god 's sake , who cares Edward ? When your own daughter ca n't even have a suitable dowry ? She stares at him .
OXFORD: Anne If you could have seen them the mob They , they did n't just sit there like the reptilia of court , faces motionless , fangs momentarily etracted . No ! They , they jumped on stage , they fought the French ! A utcher he actually broke his arm ! He was so
ANNE: Stop ! Stop it at once ! !
OXFORD: The voices , Anne The voices . I , I ca n't stop them They , they come when I sleep , when I wake , when I sup , when I , I , I walk down a hall ! The sweet longings of a maiden , the , the surging ambitions of a courtier , the foul designs of a murderer , the wretched pleas of his victims . Only- - only when I put their words thei voices to parchment are they cast loose , freed Only then is my mind quieted at peace .
ANNE: Art thou possessed ? He stares back at her . A long beat
OXFORD: I do n't know .
SHAKESPEARE: `` From ancient grudge break to new mutiny , Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean . '' Incredible ! ! The whole bloody thing in verse ? !
JONSON: It 's really not that difficult , if you try .
SHAKESPEARE: And have you ever tried ?
JONSON: You ca n't play Romeo .
SHAKESPEARE: Why not ? I wo n't let that oaf Spence have another go at one of my roles . No only Will Shakespeare can pump the life into Romeo 's veins . And his cod piece ! Ben Ben ! I 'm an actor , every inch of me , down to my very toes I want- - no , I need , crave to act . I ca n't just idle the day by with
JONSON: So bloody well act like a writer ! And for God 's sake , keep off the stage . Writers do n't have time to act .
"ROMEO": What lady 's that , which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight ?
"SERVANT": I know not , sir .
"ROMEO": O , she doth teach the torches to burn ight ! It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an Ethiop 's ear ; beauty too rich for use , for earth too dear !
YOUNG ELIZABETH: My lord of Oxford . Elizabeth smiles .
OXFORD: Did he ?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Rash , yet brave . A boy and yet a man . Fair on the eyes , fairer to the ear
YOUNG OXFORD: If I had known my absence would cause your grace so much longing , I would have returned much much sooner .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Your wife must be much pleased by you presence once more at her side Young Oxford glances over at
YOUNG OXFORD: If she is , it is but a small comfort to me . I am returned only under my father-in-law 's insistence . A beat as this sinks in .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Cecil had told me your match was one of love .
YOUNG OXFORD: And so he would wish . But how could one ever love the moon , after having first seen the sun ?
BESSIE: My lord . Her majesty went riding with the Earl of Oxford . The Ladies-in-waiting share knowing smiles .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: And which country did you like the most on your travels , my lord ?
YOUNG OXFORD: I think Italy , your grace .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: And why is that ? The weather ? The food ?
YOUNG OXFORD: No their theater , which they call la Commedia dell'arte . And , of course , the women . She raises an eyebrow .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: The women ?
YOUNG OXFORD: They were more clear with thei desires than our English ladies . When they want something , they take it . They do not wait to be taken
YOUNG ELIZABETH: I ca n't decide . Are you Prince Hal ? Or Romeo ? No . Benedick , maybe ? No
YOUNG OXFORD: Puck ?
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Yes , Puck ! She 's only teasing .
YOUNG OXFORD: Ah , but Puck would never fight for you in the Netherlands
YOUNG ELIZABETH: The Netherlands ?
YOUNG OXFORD: Well , why not ? It 's an open secret on the continent that you support the ebels against Spain and that you are commissioning Englishmen to help their cause . Spain 's loss is England 's gain , is it not ? Her eyes narrow as she studies his face .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Is this why you bedded me ? For a commission ?
YOUNG OXFORD: No . No of course not I
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Leave me . Leave at once ! A beat .
YOUNG OXFORD: Bess
YOUNG ELIZABETH: How dare you ! How dare you ! ! I command you to leave my presence .
YOUNG OXFORD: O Mistress mine , where are you oaming ? O stay and hear your true-love 's coming , That can kiss both high and low
YOUNG ELIZABETH: You will stay in England And in my chambers
MARLOWE: Do what ?
NASHE: A play in iambic , in iambic penin- ic-pentameter . It 's not that hard .
JONSON: Think you so ? Have you ever tried ?
NASHE: Of course not . But I could if I wanted
DEKKER: It was n't all in verse .
NASHE: Ha ! See ! Even easier !
SHAKESPEARE: Henslowe wants `` Romeo '' to run a fortnight . A fortnight ! Innkeeper ! A round fo everybody ! Inkeeper ! ! Billy ! ! ! And Shakespeare goes over to the bar .
NASHE: A fortnight ?
DEKKER: The maids love the romantic tragedies .
MARLOWE: Precisely why I avoid them .
NASHE: Aw , well . No worries . A one-trick pony . He 'll never be able to do it again .
"POLONIUS": Beware of entrance to a quarrel , ut being in , bear it that the opposed may beware of thee . Give every man thy ear , but few thy voice , take each man 's censure , but reserve thy judgment .
"POLINOUS": .Costly thy habit as thy purse can uy , but not expressed in fancy , rich , nor gaudy , for the apparel oft proclaims the man . This above all , to thine own self be true .
"GERTRUDE": What wilt thou do ? Thou wilt not murder me ? Help , ho !
"POLONIUS": What ho , help ! `` Hamlet '' draws his sword .
"HAMLET": How now ? A rat ? Dead , for a ducat , dead !
"POLONIUS": O , I am slain .
GROUNDLING: Not a day too soon for old Cecil ! !
"GERTRUDE": O me , what hast thou done ?
"HAMLET": Nay , I know not . Is it the King ?
"HAMLET": To be , or not to be that is the question whether ` tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune , or to take arms against a sea of troubles , and by opposing end them Loud thunder and
"HAMLET': To die , to sleep- no more- and by a sleep to say we end the heartache , and the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to
POLE: Are you certain of this ? William Cecil was murdered ?
MARLOWE: Not literally , of course . He was a character , a fictional character . But the metaphor was clear for anyone to see . And see , they did . Pole reads more from the parchment .
POLE: That is not for me to decide
ROBERT CECIL: Not only in front of Court ! But the entire City as well ! We must arrest this Shakespeare and-
WILLIAM CECIL: No , Robert , think . If he is really as popular as you say , we would only anger the mob . No . We must strike at Edward directly .
ROBERT CECIL: But we can not maintain our authority if the mob thinks us laughing stocks
WILLIAM CECIL: Our authority comes from Elizabeth and from God ! Elizabeth ! Elizabeth is the key to all .
ROBERT CECIL: I will reply to him ?
WILLIAM CECIL: I am dying , Robert We both know this to be true . And I will not witness the next coronation .
WILLIAM CECIL: Help me to my bed , my son . If we are to secure your place at the side of the next king , you must get that king his throne , not I . A beat as this registers on Robert Cecil .
ROBERT CECIL: Edward ? William Cecil is slowly falling asleep
WILLIAM CECIL: He uses the tools at his disposal , as we use the tools at ours . But ours will win as they always have .
ROBERT CECIL: I I do n't understand , father . What does Edward
WILLIAM CECIL: Edward seeks what we seek . To choose the next King . Off Robert Cecil 's surprised face we hear
BESSIE: Two cycles have passed , my lord . William Cecil thinks .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: I wish to marry him William Cecil looks startled .
WILLIAM CECIL: Marry him , your grace ? He is already married .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: I can do what I will .
WILLIAM CECIL: Can you ? She gives him a sharp look .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: I love him
WILLIAM CECIL: Would you risk your throne for him ? Would you risk England for him ? He knows the answer to that .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: And Edward ?
WILLIAM CECIL: He must never know .
YOUNG OXFORD: What have you done ?
WILLIAM CECIL: I am praying .
YOUNG OXFORD: She wo n't see me ! I 've gone to he chambers three times , and she will not eceive me . And now she 's gone !
WILLIAM CECIL: She 's on Progress . With this he leaves the chapel .
YOUNG OXFORD: Where ? Where did she go ? William Cecil is silent .
WILLIAM CECIL: The Queen does not ask for my advice about matters of the heart , Edward . If she had , she hardly would have chosen you for her pleasure . He has a point .
JONSON: Perhaps they have n't noticed.. Jonson gets up and walks towards the door .
MARLOWE: I made sure they did Jonson turns around .
JONSON: You informed on one of your own ? To the Tower ?
MARLOWE: Watch who you judge , Ben , for as God is my witness , you may well find yourself doing the same before you meet your maker . We do what we have to , to survive , and survive well , in this life . All of us . And Will is definitely not one of us . You know he 's illiterate , do n't you ? Jonson is stunned .
JONSON: Why are you here , Kit ?
MARLOWE: So who did write it ? You ? No . You 'd take credit for it . No
JONSON: You 've had too much to drink , Kit . You 're beginning to sound like one of your plays . Jonson stands and hurries out of the Tavern .
MARLOWE: Ben ! Tell me . We can go to him together . Guarantee his anonymity for a price .
JONSON: You reported on me as well , did n't you , Kit ? Last year . That 's why I was arrested , was n't it ? Because you went to the Tower ?
MARLOWE: Ben , Ben I had nothing to do with that .
ESSEX: If the Rebels have stripped the northern borders Then we must march south and take Cahi Castle
GENERAL: My lord . ` Tis a well-defended fortress . Two thousand men at least . We can not
ESSEX: So what would you have me do ? Spend the entire spring encamped ? I am sent to Ireland to end this infernal ebellion , not idle my days with
SOUTHAMPTON: Robert !
BEAULIEU: Point ! Oxford backs off , as does the fencing master .
OXFORD: Bien . Faisons du travail le Coup droit d'autorit ?
BEAULIE: Mais oui , mon seigneur .
OXFORD: Bien . En garde !
FRANCESCO: Signor ? Signor ? !
OXFORD: Beaulieu he , he tried to kill me
JONSON: What 's all that , then ?
MAN: A body Jonson peers over and sees
BEAR BAITER: Sampson ! Sired by the great Arthu himself ! No dog 's yet been bred that can take him down !
SHAKESPEARE: I need more money .
JONSON: More ? You already make more than any playwright Bankside .
BEAR BAITER: But then here , good friends , I bring you a pack of dogs so fierce , so dangerous , that Medusa herself would shrink in fear !
SHAKESPEARE: I 'm going to build my own theater , Ben , one that fits the scale of my work Jonson suddenly turns to him .
JONSON: Your work ?
BEAR BAITER: Not a one has had a morsel of food in a week ! Bred by the great John Sinclow !
A MAN: Fourpence on three dogs !
SHAKESPEARE: They insist only a gentleman can own the land .
ANOTHER MAN: A shilling on four !
SHAKESPEARE: The bribes are outrageous , but I found some one who will make me a coat-of-arms , and change the Stratford lists for me .
JONSON: Impossible .
ANOTHER MAN: Eight shillings on six dogs ! Eight shillings on six dogs !
JONSON: I 'll take that bet ! ! Eight shillings on the bear , six dogs !
ANOTHER MAN: Done !
SHAKESPEARE: Bad bet , that .
JONSON: You 'll have to make do with what you 've got . I wo n't be your beggar .
SHAKESPEARE: This is n't a request , Ben . I 'll have more money .
JONSON: Or what ? You 'll slit my throat like you did Kit 's ?
MAN: Release the dogs ! Release the dogs ! Shakespeare shows no reaction .
JONSON: I know he went to see you last night , Will . And I know he was planning to expose you if you did n't agree to his terms .
SHAKESPEARE: You 're mad , Ben . Kit was my friend .
JONSON: Be careful , Will . You kill me off too , and you wo n't have any good plays to act in after this is all done .
SHAKESPEARE: I 'll have my guineas , Ben . One way o another , I 'll have my guineas . And he gets up and leaves as the
OXFORD: So ! You are the famous Shakespeare whose labors I have enjoyed so much . I am at your service , sir .
SHAKESPEARE: My lord I- I need more money .
OXFORD: I beg your pardon ?
SHAKESPEARE: My expenses have , ah , aggrandized since this all began .
OXFORD: `` Aggrandized '' ?
SHAKESPEARE: And if , if your lordship does n't agree to an increase in my , ah , fee , I shall e forced to make certain facts public .
FRANCESCO: Have you any idea to whom you are speaking ?
SHAKESPEARE: I am addressing the writer of Hamlet of Juliet and her Romeo . Am I not ?
FRANCESCO: Out . Get out ! How dare you insult my master in
OXFORD: Wait ! How much ? Shakespeare looks at Francesco , then Oxford .
SHAKESPEARE: Four hundred pounds . A year .
FRANCESCO: A year ?
OXFORD: Pay him .
FRANCESCO: Forgive me for speaking of things above my place or understanding , signor . But Is this wise ? They have already tried to kill you once .
OXFORD: Wisdom , Francesco , is a quality I have unfortunately never possessed
BESSIE: Edward You know she would be furious if she found out about this
YOUNG OXFORD: No . She abandoned me .
BESSIE: You do n't know , do you ? He looks at her quizzically .
WILLIAM CECIL: I can not be certain , majesty , when the relationship began .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: You 're sure ?
WILLIAM CECIL: They they have n't been very discreet , majesty . I presume he wanted you to know . To to hurt you . She is crushed .
YOUNG ELIZABETH: Arrest them . Arrest them both ! William Cecil bows and exits .
WILLIAM CECIL: Your whore gave birth last week .
YOUNG OXFORD: Banished ?
WILLIAM CECIL: No . You have the freedom of the kingdom . Just not of the Court . Those are her terms . Here are mine . You will go back to my daughter . You will make some effort to make he happy and you will finally act according to your station in life , and accept the responsibilities of you great title .
YOUNG OXFORD: My lord ! I , too , have a condition . William Cecil turns .
WILLIAM CECIL: I do n't know if the whore has even delivered the
YOUNG OXFORD: No . The other one . Cecil 's face goes to stone .
WILLIAM CECIL: The other one ? Who told you ?
YOUNG OXFORD: I will go back to your daughter . I will make you as many grandchildren as she can bare William Cecil thinks .
WILLIAM CECIL: There is no record of his true birth , no trail that leads to you , or the mother . His foster parents never knew the truth , and both are now dead
YOUNG OXFORD: The name ?
WILLIAM CECIL: Make even a hint of this to the child , or anyone else , and this agreement is void , and I 'll see your head on the lock within a fortnight . And the oy 's as well .
YOUNG OXFORD: It 's a boy ?
BOY: Hello
YOUNG OXFORD: Hello . Young Oxford smiles at the boy .
BOY: My lord
YOUNG OXFORD: They tell me one day you 're to be an Earl as well .
BOY: I shall be the Earl of Southampton .
YOUNG OXFORD: Well then , we shall be Earls together , sha n't we ?
ELIZABETH: We wish to recall Essex from Ireland
ROBERT CECIL: A wise decision , your majesty . If nothing else , it will give him an opportunity to respond to all these umors . Still walking , she turns to him sharply .
ELIZABETH: Rumors ?
ROBERT CECIL: I 'm sorry , majesty , I thought you 'd heard .
ELIZABETH: Heard what ?
ROBERT CECIL: Essex is in negotiations with Philip of Spain
ELIZABETH: Peace is at hand . We know this .
ROBERT CECIL: Majesty it is said that Essex has promised Phillip all of Catholic Ireland in return for He hesitates .
ELIZABETH: In return for what ?
ROBERT CECIL: Spain 's support of Essex 's claim to the throne of England They have arrived at her carriage .
ELIZABETH: Bring him to me , William . Bring him to me at once !
ROBERT CECIL: Robert , majesty .
MESSENGER: My lord
SOUTHAMPTON: She ca n't believe this
ESSEX: Oh , ca n't she ?
SOUTHAMPTON: It 's Robert Cecil . He failed to kill you , now he tries to kill your name . Essex heads for the flap of the tent .
ESSEX: We leave with the tide !
SHAKESPEARE: Well , I 've got it !
NASHE: It 's quite colorful .
DEKKER: What in blazes is it ?
SHAKESPEARE: My coat-of-arms ! It cost a bloody fortune , but , by god , you can call me gentleman now !
DEKKER: I ca n't quite make out the motto Non sanz Non
SHAKESPEARE: `` Non sanz droict '' .
NASHE: Not without
JONSON: Right ! ? Not without right ? You went to him , did n't you ? You lying knave you went to him !
SHAKESPEARE: Ben . Ben ! Let me buy you a
JONSON: What ? You 've already killed off one competitor . Now you want another dead as well ?
SHAKESPEARE: I do n't know what you mean . Ben , we should really
JONSON: I swore to him I would n't tell you his name . Swore it ! Do you have any idea what he might do to me ? Do you ?
SHAKESPEARE: Ben you 've had too much to drink . Shakespeare grabs Jonson .
JONSON: Unhand me !
SHAKESPEARE: You have n't got any ink . And he exits .
ESSEX: Wait for me . And he continues on into
ESSEX: Majesty , I , I
ELIZABETH: Get out ! Out ! ! !
CONT'D: The insolence !
ELIZABETH: Who in God 's name does he think he is ? Abandoning his post without my leave !
ROBERT CECIL: No . Unfortunately for us , you majesty , he is quite sane . He simply elieves he is your royal equal .
OXFORD: I am Edward , Earl of Oxford .
SOUTHAMPTON: Edward ! Edward ! Thank god you 're here . Southampton comes towards him .
OXFORD: Nothing .
ESSEX: She wo n't accept my letters . I can not get to her . Cecil plans to arrest me any day . I know it . But that wo n't be as easy as he thinks .
OXFORD: Fight him in London , and you only validate every rumor and lie Cecil has ever told about you .
ESSEX: Then what do you suggest I do ? Let myself be arrested so I can be tried and executed for crimes I did not commit ?
OXFORD: No . I will go to Elizabeth , myself , alone
ESSEX: How ? Cecil wo n't let her see a lette without reading it first .
OXFORD: I wo n't send her a letter . I will send her a book . Essex looks confused , but Oxford ignores it .
ESSEX: And the mob ? How will I
OXFORD: Leave that to me .
FRANCESCO: Hold your tongue , whore , and get out !
WHORE: Oi . ` Oo 's going to pay me then ?
OXFORD: You shall begin rehearsals immediately . But it is not to be performed until I tell you . And you may only have a day 's notice . Shakespeare looks confused .
SHAKESPEARE: That will be expensive keeping all the actors ready . Having the props made but not
OXFORD: Oh , and congratulations . You 've had an epic poem published today .
SHAKESPEARE: Published ? You mean like in a book ? Renaissance MUSIC BEGINS as we
ELIZABETH: You find me disgusting , do n't you ? Repugnant . Wrinkled ?
ROBERT CECIL: You , you are the sun , majesty . The glory of
ELIZABETH: Liar ! Robert Cecil shuts his mouth .
ROBERT CECIL: Which one , your majesty ?
ELIZABETH: His . Mine . He still lives ? Robert Cecil nods .
ROBERT CECIL: Yes your majesty .
ELIZABETH: Who ? Robert Cecil hesitates .
ROBERT CECIL: His grace , the Earl of Southampton , your majesty .
CECIL: Majesty You are not having doubts about James of Scotland succeeding you , are you ? Elizabeth goes into a rage .
ELIZABETH: James ? ! He is the son of Mary ! She plotted and schemed to steal the throne from under me ! No son of hers will rule while a yet Tudor lives !
"GLOUCESTER": But I , that am not shaped for sportive tricks , nor made to court an amorous looking-glass
SPENCER: Good part , that
"GLOUCESTER": and that so lamely and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as I halt by them . Is this wise ?
BURBAGE: It 's only the one performance . Go on !
"GLOUCESTER": I need a drink And `` Gloucester '' heads backstage .
JONSON: Burbage . Wonderful theater . Wonderful ! The best Bankside ! But only one performance ? Is it that bad ?
BURBAGE: Hardly , it 's Will 's new play . Richard the Third . We 've been hired to perform it free to the public .
JONSON: Free ?
BURBAGE: Aye . Some anonymous nobleman paid fo everything . God knows Will neve would . Been rehearsing all week , just found out this morning , we go up next Monday .
JONSON: My best so far . I guarantee more than one performance . Though I 'll not pay for the tickets myself . No need to .
BURBAGE: Sorry , Ben Jonson looks confused .
MAN: You doin ' tomorrow ?
WOMAN: You askin ?
MAN: Managed to get two tickets to Shakespeare 's latest . Cost me a fortune .
PASSING MAN: Ballocks , did it ! They 're giving them away free .
SPENCER: Best villain in the history of theater , Richard the Third . No doubt .
HEMINGE: Come on . Better than Mephistopheles ?
SPENCER: No doubt ! Your Marlowe god rest his soul is fine for your everyday scalawag , and your Jonson wo n't even try the hard drama . No , this is Shakespeare , for god 's sake ! The man knows drama . I tell you , not even the Greeks compare ! To Shakespeare ! And villainy !
ALL: To Shakespeare ! And villainy !
WHORE: Fancy a tumble ? Only sixpence !
POLE: I have n't got all day , man .
JONSON: I There is a there is a play to e performed on Monday .
POLE: There 's many plays to be performed next Monday , is n't there ?
JONSON: Yes , my lord , but this one is to be performed one performance , and one performance only . On Monday . All Bankside is talking of it . The History of King Richard the Third . By William Shakespeare . Pole is confused . So ?
POLE: I know who Richard the Third was .
JONSON: Yes . Of course you do . But in William Shakespeare 's version , he is played as a hunch-back . Pole realizes this is significant .
BURBAGE: We have to turn ` em away by the hundreds ! Look ! Never seen anything quite like it !
NASHE: So ! I heard the Earl of Essex paid fo this whole performance ! Man 's never even een to the theater , and still he 's heard of Will Dekker also joins them .
DEKKER: Essex ! ? Impossible . My cousin 's one of his men-at-arms . Has n't been paid in weeks . They 're all just sitting there , waiting .
JONSON: Waiting ? Waiting for what ?
DEKKER: Wants to have an audience with the Queen . As if Cecil would ever let Essex near he now .
NASHE: By the mass , Cecil in favor , Essex out ! Who can keep up with it all ! ?
DEKKER: Tired of politics are you ? Seems you picked the wrong day to come to the theater , then
"GLOUCESTER": Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of York . Grim-visaged war hath smooth 'd his wrinkled front .
"GLOUCESTER": and now instead of mounting barded steeds to fright the souls of fearful adversaries , he capers nimbly in a lady 's chamber to the lascivious pleasing of a lute . But I , that am not shaped for sportive tricks , no made to court an amorous looking- glass
ESSEX: Edward knows what he is doing Does he not ?
SOUTHAMPTON: He promised us a mob . They 'll be here . Essex looks concerned , but says no more .
FRANCESCO: A pox on Cecil !
NASHE: Why is Oxford 's man with the Groundlings ?
"GLOUCESTER": Hath she forgot already that brave prince , Edward , her lord , whom I , some three months since , Stabb 'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury ? A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman- Fram 'd in the prodigality of nature , Young , valiant , wise , and no doubt right royal-
FRANCESCO: Down with Cecil !
JONSON: This is what Essex is waiting for Oxford is bringing him a mob . Jonson heads for the stairs .
NASHE: Why would Oxford
JONSON: I do n't know , I do n't know ! But , the Tower Cecil , he already knows . He knows ! I I have to warn them !
VARIOUS GROUNDLINGS: Up with Essex ! Essex ! Death to Cecil !
SHAKESPEARE: We must close the play . Now ! !
BURBAGE: Close the ? Are you off your head ?
"GLOUCESTER": Fram 'd in the prodigality of nature , Young , valiant , wise , and no doubt right royal-
FRANCESCO: To Essex House ! To Essex House ! Death to Cecil ! Traitor !
MAN: To Essex ! And then to the Queen ! Ess-ex ! Ess-ex !
OFFICER: Fire !
SOUTHAMPTON: They should be here by now Essex frowns .
ESSEX: We go as we are ! Now ! !
FRANCESCO: Signor Jonson ! We are betrayed ! Run ! Run !
ESSEX: To the Queen ! To the Queen !
POLE: Take your aim !
ESSEX: Spread out ! But before his men can obey
POLE: Fire ! !
ROBERT CECIL: Majesty ! You must away ! Essex is in armed revolt ! He 's come to usurp you !
ELIZABETH: Essex ? I Edward is She seems like a confused old woman .
ROBERT CECIL: You must flee ! Quickly ! Majesty ! He means to kill you and take your throne for himself !
OXFORD: He wanted his grandson to be an Earl .
ROBERT CECIL: No , Edward . He wanted his grandson to e a king . Oxford now looks confused .
OXFORD: You lie
ROBERT CECIL: Do I ? Why do you think he worked so hard to ecome your guardian after your fathe died ? He had it all planned years in advance . He would teach you everything he knew about statecraft , marry his daughter , and , afte Elizabeth 's death , proclaim you heir . His own grandchild to follow you on the throne . But he could n't possibly predict what kind of failure you would ecome . How you would fail in politics , ignore your estates to the point of bankruptcy , all to write Poetry . Or that you would commit incest .
OXFORD: Elizabeth would never have
ROBERT CECIL: What ? Slept with her son ? I do n't think she ever knew , to tell you the truth . Though you never know with the Tudors . They all have had such strange tastes in bed-fellows . You could have been a king , Edward . And your son after you . Except fo the fact that you were you .
ANNE: Sentence has been passed .
ELIZABETH: Leave us . All of you .
ROBERT CECIL: Majesty , I
ELIZABETH: Leave us !
OXFORD: I thank your majesty for seeing me .
ELIZABETH: You can not have him .
OXFORD: He is our son .
ELIZABETH: Who did commit High Treason !
OXFORD: They only wished for a place in government equal to their station . Equal to their birth .
ELIZABETH: You caused this ! Your play , you words , caused my people to mob against me ! Do you think I was n't aware of your plot with this man Shakespeare , that I would n't recognize your voice ? It should be your head on the block next week , not Southampton 's ! Oxford kneels .
OXFORD: Then take my head . In our son 's stead .
ELIZABETH: Cecil ? He has kept me my throne ! Mary , Queen of Scots Philip , King of Spain Four French Louis 's Eight Popes they all wanted my head . My throne . All of them ! Yet here I remain Because of the Cecils .
OXFORD: We would have protected you
ELIZABETH: You would have protected me ? You ? My `` loyal '' Earls ? You think Essex and Southampton were the first to conspire against me , to try to take my throne ? No ! Only the Cecils could I trust ! Commoners ! They could never claim my throne . Never ! Their wealth , thei power , their survival , all depended on me . Me and no other ! A long beat before
OXFORD: Let our child live
ELIZABETH: All Englishmen are my children !
OXFORD: He will never learn of it from me .
ELIZABETH: He must never know Never . Take him . Oxford dares to smile , relieved .
OXFORD: But only after my death ! Only then ! When all is complete . After James is crowned king , his crown safe , only then can you claim your son ou son . This Island will be whole .
ELIZABETH: Treason that is all that has come from you your son Your plays None will be claimed by you . None .
SHAKESPEARE: The line wo n't get a laugh that way . You must accent the word sirrah
JONSON: A command performance for our new king ! Even in bloody Scotland they 've heard of bloody Will Shakespeare , have they ? Fraud . Charlatan . Counterfeiter of wit ! Murderer !
SHAKESPEARE: Ben , please
ANNE: What is this man doing in my house ? The servant does n't know what to say .
JONSON: It was your husband who sent for me , madam .
ANNE: And I am dismissing you A SECOND DOCTOR exits the sick man 's room .
SECOND DOCTOR: Are you Jonson ? Jonson nods .
JONSON: Excuse me , your grace .
OXFORD: Thank you , doctor . The doctor exits .
JONSON: I find your words the most wondrous ever heard on our stage . On any stage Ever .
OXFORD: Promise me promise me , Jonson , that you will keep our secret safe . That you wo n't expose Shakespeare
JONSON: My lord ?
OXFORD: I have seen it in your face He vexes you . How could he not ? But he is not your burden . He is mine . Then he nods to the manuscripts by his side .
JONSON: I am not worthy of this charge , my lord . I I betrayed you I told them of your
OXFORD: I have made it my life to know the character of men , Jonson . I know you . You may have betrayed me , but you will never betray my words He puts the last manuscript on the pile . Jonson looks at the
ANNE: Get out ! You , your friends , you lasphemous theaters , have brought nothing but ruin and dishonor to this family .
JONSON: Ruin ? Dishonor ? Madam . You , you family , me , even Elizabeth herself shall be remembered solely because we had the honor to live whilst you husband put ink to paper . He turns and exits .
CECIL: I can make all this go away , Jonson To be but a dream . Like one of you plays Or , I can bring you so much pain pain that were you given a thousand years , and a thousand quills , you could never justly describe Cecil steps back .
JONSON: They were destroyed burned by your own men
CECIL: Let him go ! He tells the truth .
JONSON: I am afraid that this is not possible , my lord . Robert Cecil 's smile freezes and he leaves .
PROLOGUE: Let us , ciphers to this great accompt , on your imaginary forces work .
JAMES I: We had seen some of this Shakespeare 's plays in Edinburgh , Sir Robert . I must tell you , we enjoyed them immensely , and look forward to seeing many more , now that we are in London I presume you are as avid a theater man as myself ? Robert Cecil 's smile remains frozen .
ROBERT CECIL: Of course , your majesty
PROLOGUE: Robert Cecil remained the most powerful man in the Court of King James , though he could not prevent the public theaters from becoming ever more popular . William Shakespeare , however , spent the remaining years of his life not in the playhouses of London , but in the small town of his irth , Stratford upon Avon , as a usinessman and grain merchant .
VOICE: Wow . That 's hard . I 'd have to say it 's the day we launched Outpost
DARYL: Gary always makes sure we 've got the coolest stuff to drink .
MITCH: Big companies are s'posed to be impersonal .
DONNY: It bums me out when the media say we 're cultish , or whatever . Why ? 'Cause we care about each other ?
MITCH: 'Love you too , bro . As they laugh `` The coolest thing ? ''
TERRY: How Gary gets this superbad rap .
GARY: A kid working in his garage can create the next Outpost , the new IBM . All it takes is a great idea . A bloated Senator looks hostile .
LARRY: Can we go ?
BRIAN: Do you mind ? Larry gets up .
ALICE: Is it over ?
LARRY: They still have to give 'em efreshments laced with mind-altering drugs .
ALICE: You are a fanatic .
LARRY: ' Gon na wait outside .
ALICE: `` Make '' him ?
LARRY: You know what I mean . As we hear Larry speak , we cut back into
ALICE: You know what he 's like . He just wants to work on stuff that 's cool .
LARRY: You do n't wan na move , do you ?
ALICE: I can paint anywhere .
LARRY: I ca n't help it . I feel like they 'd do anything to keep their
ALICE: Anything ? That 's not even credible . If he wants to go up there ? To check it out ? I think you should encourage him . It 's his life . But everybody 's treating him like this valuable object . You 're hurting your own case .
BRIAN: He 's my god . I hear he actually calls ecruits sometimes . Or is that an Urban Legend ?
REDMOND: Gary 's running the biggest software company in the world , Brian . He 's eing harassed by the Justice Department , and he 's got a new baby .
DANNY: Milo ? I 'm Danny .
MILO: Oh hi .
DANNY: Gary would like to speak to you ?
MILO: Hello ?
ALICE: But how does he know that 's what you guys 're working on ?
MILO: All the companies know . The faculties tell 'em . At the target schools .
LARRY: In exchange for endowments . They should just drop the pretense and name the schools after 'em .
BRIAN: I ca n't believe you refused a ticket !
TEDDY: My parents 're already freaked-out I 'm staying here . 50 miles from Chinatown .
BRIAN: Well maybe if you told 'em how much money you 'd be making You 're going up there . Right ?
LARRY: I think you should go .
MILO: You do ?
LARRY: I mean , it 's your life .
MILO: I think I kind of lost it . I was just so thrilled to be talking to the richest , most powerful 'Did n't know I even cared about that stuff .
ALICE: C'mon , how often do you talk to somebody who 's been on the cover of Time . Three of four times .
MILO: A lot of what Larry says is true . They just clone stuff , or reverse engineer it , and everybody gets stuck with their inferior version cause they
ALICE: Then you 've got ta ask him about that . He looks at her you 've got ta be kidding .
MILO: If he 's really a bully , he wo n't cop to it , anyway .
ALICE: Bully ? Are we talking about Gary Boyd ? Or your dad .
MILO: When I was a kid ? And he was moving us all over the place ? I spent all my time writing stuff on Outpost 1.0 . I thought Gary Boyd was the greatest .
ALICE: But he 's not quite the same guy anymore . Do n't get your hopes too high ?
DANNY: 'Could n't convince Teddy to come ?
MILO: He 's pretty tight with his family .
DANNY: We could move 'em up here .
MILO: He just likes to write code . He 's ummed there 's so much secrecy and competition , everybody trying to own everything .
REDMOND: Who do you mean by `` everybody . ''
MILO: So how far are we from the campus ?
REDMOND: Oh we 're not going to the campus .
MILO: Who 's that ?
DANNY: I think they call him the `` Houseman . '' 'Cause `` guard '' sounds too weird .
REDMOND: It 's like he knows everybody expects him to be this worldly , colorful zillionaire . But he 's just a guy who likes software .
HOUSEMAN: Have a seat . He wo n't be long .
PHIL: We tried the big vaporware number , Gary , it 's no-sale .
RANDY: Can we buy into their IPO ? Or is that a Justice Dept . problem ?
PHIL: There is no public offering . The guy who wrote it joined some freakazoid cult in San Luis Obispo . 'Wrote this just to run their web site .
GARY: Milo ? Excuse the tie . I was on TV .
MILO: That 's okay .
GARY: The house knows the paintings I like , it knows my favorite music . Same fo anybody else who 's in the system .
MILO: Cool !
GARY: Would you like a Coke or something ?
MILO: Oh . No thanks .
GARY: When we started , I just hired my smart friends . That was great . We got a little bigger , I had to hire smart strangers . Much harder . He selects a Kiwi-Raspberry , they walk on .
MILO: You know a lot about art , I guess .
GARY: There 's a rumor going around , maybe you 've heard it .
MILO: Low enough to relay internet traffic .
GARY: Among other things We know convergence is the real super-highway all the PC 's , TV 's , phones , etc . linked together . Why cram it into a cable if you can use the whole sky ?
MILO: Skywire .
GARY: The content filer has t'be written into the media files so bits coming off the satellite can be read by multiplatforms . Really , omniplatforms . Including whatever new hardware emerges .
MILO: It needs a more object-oriented language . This does n't scale , does it ?
GARY: You 'd have to start practically from scratch . But this is all you 'd be working on . No marketing meetings , no product seminars . We ca n't waste the time . Half the Valley 's working on convergence . So 're media conglomerates , cable companies , phone companies . 'Ca n't finish second , Milo . There is no second Now what would you like to ask me ? Milo has a deer-in-the-headlights look .
MILO: Ask you ?
GARY: I know what people say , and not just the Justice Department . We clone ideas , inflict our second-rate versions on the world , we have n't done anything original since 1.0 .
MILO: I do !
GARY: Yeah ? I wan na feel like I did when I wrote that . But I 'm 42 , that 's 100 in cyber-years . I look at you and see the things that got me here . But somehow got away .
MILO: If my dad 'd leveled with me like that even once The weird thing is , my fantasy he could somehow be like the old Gary ? It 's his fantasy , too .
ALICE: I think that 's great , Milo . I do .
MILO: But ?
ALICE: Did n't you visit the campus ?
MILO: I forgot . That 's why you have to help me decide .
ALICE: No way . You have this destiny .
MILO: C'mon , I would n't have a destiny without you . My destiny would be dying at 20 . From eating
ALICE: Do n't bring that up . Like a different girlfriend would'd 've let you die ?
MILO: You saved my life in alot of ways .
ALICE: It 's not just Gary that makes you wan na go there ? 'Cause it 's a big place . You might not even see him again .
MILO: I know .
ALICE: Prob'ly waiting by the phone fo Outpost to call . We 'll leave it fo him ?
MILO: You got my E-mail ?
TEDDY: And your phone messages . You wan na do what you do , it 's not a crime .
MILO: Is that how Larry feels ?
TEDDY: Uh . Not exactly .
MILO: Wanted to say goodbye to him
TEDDY: Hey , we got seed money for the startup ! A million-five ! Milo grins , he high-fives Teddy .
MILO: Outpost made me sign 1,000 . 'Guess we 'll find out what else we have to talk about . Life stuff .
ALICE: Milo , this is Mr. Barton from the Justice Department . Sorry about the glass .
BARTON: Do n't worry , Milo . I 'm here as a friend . Or maybe a supplicant .
MILO: Right What 's that mean again ?
BARTON: Beggar . We 're at a disadvantage with Outpost . Our experts are n't as smart as theirs . Sometimes we ca n't tell which technologies pose the threat of a monopoly . We need a really smart guy to help us pick our fights . I 'm taking a shot in the dark , here . I can offer you 32,000 a year , a Buick . I 'm hoping you 've got a feeling it 's the right thing to do .
MILO: It 's just I kind of feel the need to do something with my ability . Create something
BARTON: Like I said shot in the dark . Milo tries to give back the card .
MILO: That took some fun out of
ALICE: We 're not gon na let it .
CNN VOICE: ingested the fatal mixture of sedatives crushed in apple sauce . According to the cult 's eerily professional website , it was `` time to move on ''
REDMOND: There 're 20 buildings , I mean not counting the Gyms , the Day Care , etc .
MILO: His Snapples were in alphabetical order .
REDMOND: Well , he micro-managed the company till it got too big 'Guess he needs to micro-manage something .
RECEPTIONIST: Milo , I 'm Judith . Welcome !
REDMOND: Everybody has the same office , there 's no dumbass corporate hierarchy .
DESI: Get out while you can , dude !
REDMOND: Desi , Milo .
DESI: The guy who was at Gary 's house ?
REDMOND: Best bomb shelters in America , accessible from every building . You got ta figure we 're a major target , ight ?
MILO: She 's a programmer ?
REDMOND: Heavy graphical background , doing design-interface for Skywire apps . You 'll be working with her .
MILO: I 've got a girlfriend , remember ?
REDMOND: Right . That 's rare around here . You know how nuns ' re-married to Jesus ? 'Posties are married to Outpost .
SHROT: Unauthorized entries sound like this .
MILO: Tailgater ?
SHROT: Somebody coming in on your swipe . ( gives Milo a photo
ID: You see somebody wandering around without ID , it 's your duty to challenge him . I do n't give a shit if you 're a stock-option billionaire . If you do n't challenge , I 'll have your butt .
MILO: He seems a little tense .
REDMOND: Geeks pull his chain cause he 's non- tech . Ex-cop or something . They moon cameras , or use ATM 's as swipe cards . The cameras 're our real security so he 's a little demoralized .
MILO: What 're they building ?
REDMOND: # 21 . Way behind schedule . It 's top- secret , but everybody knows it 's a digital broadcast space . They see the dishes on top , the fiber optics going in .
MILO: Gary 's not into fiber optics . He 's etting everything on the satellites .
REDMOND: You wan na survive in the software usiness , you cover your bets I got ta say , this is the weirdest ca anybody ever requested .
MILO: She is . She is !
REDMOND: 'Might be some friction on the domestic front . You 're expected you to put in ridiculous hours . People 've accused us of breaking up elationships to get their undivided attention . He laughs .
VOICE: Busy ? Milo looks up . It 's Gary . Milo is thrilled .
MILO: No ! Just waiting for my counselor to come by and introduce himself .
GARY: Okay . I 'm Gary .
MILO: Do I ?
GARY: Somebody said I 'm just anothe Philistine . With reproductions .
MILO: That 's insane . You 're ahead of you time .
GARY: That 's what I told her . My wife .
MILO: Uh , might be one or two things .
GEEK 1: He 's been in there like an hour .
GEEK 2: Shit .
MILO: Could work with a new switch . There may be a few more things hidden .
GARY: Do n't spend too much time searching . You ever vetted somebody 's old code efore ? It 's a different skill . Stay close to the surface . The best-hidden secrets are in plain sight . You know the best place to hide a leaf , right ? In a tree .
ALICE: The corporate condos were as omantic as they sound . Milo 's grinning as he takes in the house .
MILO: You know he 's never been anybody 's counselor before ?
ALICE: Milo ! What about ?
MILO: Oh , It 's great . It 's great ! 'Think I should tell him I learned everything using 1.0 ? Maybe I could show him one of my early programs . She pulls him back into the kiss .
DOJ AGENT: `` Infotek 's urgent need to license Outpost Office is such that we can use it as a tool in the current negotiation . '' When you wrote the word `` tool , '' what 'd you mean by it ?
GARY: I do n't remember .
DOJ AGENT: What d'you think you meant by it ?
GARY: I 'm confused . Am I supposed to speculate under oath ?
OTHER AGENT: Since you did n't have an answer to that question , Mr. Boyd
GARY: Did n't I ? Have an answer ? `` I do n't emember . ''
DOJ AGENT: Did you wan na take a break , Mr. Boyd ?
PHIL: Your protege 's moving so fast we can arely keep up with him .
GARY: This is good . Who did it ?
PHIL: 'Start-up not 50 miles from here . Kid 's on Prozac .
GARY: Maybe we should all get on it .
MILO: Maybe I 'm going too fast .
GARY: Too fast ? At least four companies 're on the verge of workable convergence systems , Milo , they
MILO: It 's okay . Really .
GARY: Take a look at this . Slightly different approach .
MILO: You did this overnight ?
GARY: You 're making me young again .
NEWS VOICE: A graduate of MIT , he was on the antidepressant Prozac , and had been warned not to drink and drive . Lisa watches the news report , knowingly .
LISA: Milo ? He looks . He stands .
MILO: Lisa .
LISA: You know my name .
MILO: You know mine .
LISA: You 're famous around here .
MILO: I 'm getting a teacher 's pet rep .
LISA: I would n't worry about it . You 've got ta figure most people around here were their teachers ' pets .
MILO: Were you ?
LISA: We moved around so much I barely knew my teachers .
MILO: Me too ! Were you an Army brat o something ?
LISA: Something like that . Yeah .
MILO: Did n't mean to pry . I just have this theory . Some of us who got to good at this ? We were escaping something .
LISA: No , I know what you mean . I used to spend my life wishing people could e like computers . Least they make sense . Sometimes you think they 've etrayed you . Like a person would . But then you see , no , you just missed a step . You can go back and make it all work .
MILO: I used to wish that . All the time .
LISA: Graphical interfaces . For Skywire ? I 'm s'posed to coordinate with you .
MILO: Show me .
LISA: Yeah ? I ran it for lots of platforms , anging from the narrowest bandwidth to
MILO: Sh-Show me the next one .
SECRETARY: Have a seat . He 's with someone , but I know he wants to see you .
LAWYER: Because we bundled it , the judge is threatening to enjoin the whole
GARY: I 'm confused , Ted .
SECRETARY: Go on in . He 's always happy to see you .
GARY: Milo . What 's up ?
MILO: Well you sent for me .
GARY: Right Right .
MILO: You really wrote this just today ?
GARY: What 're you implying .
MILO: Nothing !
GARY: Everything I do is under scrutiny . The questions they ask , trying to make anything strategic look sordid . I 'm confused . Does n't everybody in usiness try to get ahead ?
MILO: I 'm sure .
GARY: The purpose of this company is n't to destroy our competitors any more than the purpose of living is to eath . But the software business is inary you 're a zero or a one . Being obsessive is n't a crime . It 's a character trait .
MILO: Definitely .
ALICE: This feels fairly grown up , I 'd say .
MILO: To our new life . What 's wrong ?
ALICE: That 's what I need to ask you . You know you ca n't keep anything from me .
MILO: He gave me some new code-fixes this morning . I said , `` Did you really do this just today ? '' Cause I was impressed . He said `` What 're you implying ? ''
ALICE: What would it mean , anyway ? If he did n't write it ?
MILO: That 's what I 'm asking myself . Does he have some genius stowed away ? Why not let him write Skywire . 'Not saying it makes sense .
ALICE: Milo !
MILO: I 'm so stupid . He throws the roll back into the basket .
ALICE: He 's your boss . He 's not your
MILO: I know , I know .
ALICE: If you ca n't deal with him on that asis , you better get a new counselor .
MILO: Is n't that extreme ?
ALICE: What 's extreme is what that ER docto said when he pumped your stomach . Eat another sesame seed and that 's it . We see the rolls covered in seeds .
MILO: You 're right . It 's a working elationship . Do n't know what I was expecting .
ALICE: C'mon . Let 's do the toast ?
LISA: Did you wan na be alone ?
MILO: No . Please . He indicates she should sit .
LISA: They just pushed up the schedule on Skywire apps . How fast are you going ?
MILO: `` There is no second place . '' Plus every time I get jammed-up , Gary has an inspiration . Is it like that with your counselor ?
LISA: Mine 's not the CEO . He barely emembers to take a shower .
MILO: Right , right . But does he ever just , like , hand you code ?
LISA: Maybe once . I re-wrote it , anyway .
MILO: You 're compulsive .
LISA: Mmm-more like I have a little trouble . Trusting people .
MILO: Why 's that ?
LISA: Long story . Not that interesting .
MILO: So , when you were talking about wishing people were more like computers . Was that then ? Or now ?
LISA: Then and now . But not right now .
VOICE: Milo !
BRIAN: Just dropped off a resume . Almost got in the front door .
MILO: You 're living here ?
BRIAN: 'Thought if I relocated it could help my case . I 'm writing programs for the local public access station . Where any whack-job with 100 bucks gets his own show ? God , does it suck . Can you help me ?
MILO: Sure , I 'll see what I can do .
BRIAN: Well I parked illegally . See y'later ?
MILO: 'Forgot to introduce you . I have a girlfriend .
LISA: That 's great . I did n't know .
MILO: She saved my life .
TEDDY: But these , like , White Supremacists trashed my office , last week .
MILO: What ? !
TEDDY: They 're in the neighborhood . They usually hassle Vietnamese grocers .
MILO: Jesus , Teddy .
TEDDY: I 'm cool . They did n't touch the machine . Or my disks . Probably did n't know what they were . So , you a Moonie yet ? Milo ?
MILO: I met this girl .
TEDDY: What ? Come on . Is it serious ?
MILO: I do n't know .
TEDDY: Did you tell Alice ?
MILO: No ! I keep thinking it 'll go away . But there 's this connection . She 's een hacking since she was little , she had to move around a lot . Plus I see her every day , we 're working on the same program . She 's beautiful .
TEDDY: A beautiful geek ? I do n't wan na sound paranoid , or like a pig , but what 're the chances ?
MILO: What d'you mean ?
TEDDY: I dunno . I guess Larry 's got me totally suspicious of that place .
MILO: What does that mean ?
TEDDY: Milo , geeks do n't have two girlfriends . Most do n't have one .
MILO: I did n't plan this .
PHIL: There may be a little less trust after your outburst . We are
GARY: Nothing does . Still . I want him to like me .
MILO: What 's wrong ? She does n't know how to say it .
ALICE: Teddy was killed last night .
MILO: What 're you what ?
ALICE: It was a hate crime . Milo is staggered . She moves to him
NELSON: They trashed his hard disk , all his ack-ups . Nothing 's left .
MILO: They caught the guys ?
NELSON: It 's an airtight case . They found the weapon with Teddy 's blood on it and their fingerprints . They 'd been arrested twice for beating-up Asians . How come they were n't in jail ?
MILO: He told me about the break-in . He did n't seem to take it that seriously .
NELSON: You guys do n't take anything seriously do you ? That 's not on a hard drive ?
ALICE: Nelson ? Your mom wants you . It 's time to go to scatter the ashes .
MILO: I did n't know he was working with fiber optics . But when he looks up , Nelson 's gone .
ALICE: We got ta go too , honey .
MILO: I know you lost all his work . Maybe I could come down here and
LARRY: You are naive . Look at your employment contract you ca n't work anywhere else in this field for at least few years . Not that I do n't miss you .
MILO: Just thought his work should go on .
LARRY: He was on the verge of something , too . He was gon na show us the next day . He said `` The answer 's not in the box , it 's in the band . '' Know what it means ?
MILO: It 's only meaningful when you 've got 40,000 lines of code to back it up .
LARRY: Man , could he write code . Totally elegant . He had his own style .
MILO: Those really weird , short lines .
LARRY: Take good care of this guy .
LISA: You okay ?
GARY: I heard what happened .
MILO: Were the flags for Teddy ?
GARY: Had you talked to him much lately ?
MILO: Just once . 'Guess I was worried we did n't have anything to talk about , since work was off-limits . Non- disclosure .
GARY: Did you ?
MILO: Talk about work ? Never !
GARY: I meant did you find other stuff to
MILO: Oh . Yeah .
GARY: You 've been coming in early .
MILO: It helps . Alice said it would help . To focus on something . 'Do n't know what I 'd do without her .
ALICE: You okay ? I miss him , too .
GARY: Milo ?
MILO: Wow . You must have 20,000 lines of code there
GARY: 34,000 . But they 're real short lines . 'Just came out that way .
MILO: The wrong place ?
GARY: The answer 's not in the box . It 's in the band .
MILO: Got ta go home . 'Think I ate something .
ALICE: Are you saying you think they had something to do with his death ? Nelson said it was an airtight case .
MILO: I do n't know what I 'm saying . Maybe maybe they hired those guys .
ALICE: I ca n't see Outpost putting its eputation in the hands of people like that .
MILO: I do n't know ! I just know it was Teddy 's code . All these ideas flying in from everywhere . You know how he says `` Any kid working in his garage can put us out of business ? '' It 's like they know what every kid 's doing .
ALICE: They hack into people 's programs ?
MILO: Nobody does work like this on-line . It 's in your PC , or in a mainframe . Self-contained . They 'd have to be , like , watching people . Physically . Oh Jesus .
ALICE: You 're scaring me . I think we should just go .
MILO: Go where ? You ca n't get away from people like this .
ALICE: `` Like this ? '' It 's Gary you 're talking about .
MILO: You think I do n't know that ?
ALICE: Milo . Why would he
MILO: How should I know ? `` Solving a problem , '' I guess . Or needing to control everything . I do n't know . I 've got ta get in there .
ALICE: Even if all this were true . There 're 20 other buildings . All of them filled with computers and
MILO: It 's the only one with dishes on the oof . The studio 's a front . That 's why they keep postponing its opening . got ta get in there .
ALICE: Milo , you told me those DOJ Agents are all over the place . How could they hope to hide a surveillance post ? And how can you get in there , anyway ? With the cameras and the swipe cards
MILO: I ca n't just walk away !
ALICE: You ca n't just walk in , either .
MILO: They stop the construction work at six or seven . The parking lot 's mostly clear by two or three in the morning . Even the early Geeks do n't get there efore five .
ALICE: Is it two ? Or is it three ? Have you ever really noticed ?
MILO: No ! I ca n't just keep my head in the sand . That 's how I got into this mess .
ALICE: Whaddo I do ?
MILO: So you believe me ? She ca n't lie . She shakes her head .
ALICE: Just tell me what to do .
MILO: Come on .
GUARD: Sir , you got ta use your own Where 's your ID ?
MILO: Do you know who I am ?
GUARD: It 's my job , I got ta
MILO: The kind of stock options I 'm sitting on ?
SHROT: Every geek has to try this once to show me how smart he is ANOTHER GUARD rushes in .
ANOTHER GUARD: There was an explosion in a Y-secto closet , we 're evacuating the whole sector .
SHROT: Un-nh , ca n't wander around without ID now . Just park your ass in that chair . Milo sits . Shrot goes out with the Guard .
RANDY: What is it ?
SHROT: Not much . Glorified cherry bomb . Right by the civil defense sign ? Some geek 's idea of irony . I been saying we need a camera in this hall .
RANDY: There 's nothing in this hall . Someone 's pulling your chain , as usual .
SHROT: Unless it 's a diversion . Milo 's in my office . He was tailgating , so I Gary explodes , with incredulity .
GARY: Milo ? Try to have a clue . Try to think .
RANDY: That kid 's the great white hope .
SHROT: I could get it out of him .
RANDY: You 're not listening .
MILO: Everything okay ?
DELBERT: How 's it goin ' ?
GUARD: Big night . Switched from tea to coffee . Brought new meaning to my work .
DELBERT: Yeah ? Maybe I 'll start my rounds with # 21 tonight .
GUARD: You are a wild man .
RANDY: Maybe he 'll get back to work .
PHIL: Speaking of which
RANDY: Yeah , yeah . Randy pulls the blinds shut , joins Phil .
MILO: in a tree
PHIL: Did you download Corey ? In San Jose ?
RANDY: Damn . 'Have to go back over there . Be so much easier if we could walk in the front door .
PHIL: You do n't look anything like a three- year-old .
MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR: run this methamphetamine lab known to Federal Authorities , per ND 47 , from which we removed the implement , fingerprints intact .
MILO: Please do n't be one of them .
MULTIMEDIA NARRATOR: needs to be watched , due to he heightened level of suspicion
DOJ RECEPTIONIST: He 's not in yet .
MILO: Can I wait in his office ?
DOJ RECEPTIONIST: It 's locked , dear .
MILO: Please .
DOJ RECEPTIONIST: Wait in his outer office .
MILO: Mr. Barton , do you remember me ?
BARTON: It 's Milo , is n't it ?
MILO: Yes sir . I need to talk to you .
BARTON: Give me two seconds with Lacy here ? Go on in , I wo n't be a moment .
MILO: Yeah . Hi . Thank you for seeing me .
BARTON: Have a seat .
MILO: I am . I am , sir . What 's he gon na say ?
BARTON: Milo ?
MILO: My friend , my best friend , Teddy , was killed in Silicon Valley .
BARTON: My goodness .
MILO: It was racially motivated . He 's Chinese . He was . And I know sometimes the FBI gets involved with that . Do n't they ?
BARTON: If there 's a Civil Rights violation . But generally we let the local police and DA do their work first .
MILO: I just wan na help bring these guys to justice . They 're neo-Nazis .
BARTON: Let me look into it , see what 's being done . Frankly , it 's not my area .
MILO: 'Just did n't know who else to talk to .
BARTON: And Outpost ? You 're happy there ?
MILO: Yes sir .
ALICE: No .
PHIL: Not like him , is it ? To do a thing like that without telling you . You 're not losing your hold on him , are you ?
ALICE: He 'll tell me when he gets home .
PHIL: That 'll be a test , wo n't it ?
ALICE: Instead of busting my chops you should do something about that girl . Fire her . Or something .
PHIL: Lisa 's an extremely valuable membe of the Skywire team . We 've got ou eyes on her . You keep yours on Milo .
ALICE: Prick .
MILO: Nothing .
ALICE: Nothing ?
MILO: It 's what they said it is . An unfinished broadcast studio . You were right I just drove to Seattle and back .
ALICE: Why ?
MILO: Remember Lyle Barton ? She shakes her head .
ALICE: I remember .
MILO: After I broke into 21 which was insane , thank God they did n't catch me ! I just drove around . Trying to figure out what possessed me . You know what ? I 've been putting my own guilt on Gary .
ALICE: Guilt ?
MILO: If I 'd stayed down there , maybe this wouldn't 've happened .
ALICE: Poor baby . You know that 's not true .
MILO: I thought , instead of indulging all these paranoid delusions , risking my job , alienating Gary , scaring you , I should do something useful with my grief . Help them find Teddy 's killers .
ALICE: I was so worried about you .
MILO: been such a long night .
ALICE: That was different .
MILO: Different ? Shit . She knows .
ALICE: You did n't feel it ? So intense .
LISA: So you 're not avoiding me .
MILO: I snuck into # 21 .
LISA: Why would you do a thing like
MILO: You thought about it too . You 've een suspicious for a while . But it 's not happening in there . It 's happening in the Day Care .
LISA: The Day Care ?
MILO: Can we go someplace else ?
LISA: But why would they ?
MILO: You know . There is no second place . And what 's the risk ? The killings 're undetectable , they 're hand-tailored , they make `` sense . '' I mean , they 're in the information business . They have scenarios for all of us , too . In case we find out too much . She 's peering at him . He reads her mind .
LISA: I 'm sorry , Milo I 'm sorry . She smiles sadly as she backs away .
MILO: I know why you 're so secretive . Why you wo n't let anybody near you . I know what he did to you .
LISA: Oh yeah ?
MILO: They 'd frame him .
LISA: He 's out of prison ?
MILO: They 're already watching you . If they had to , they 'd give him this drug that mimics an alcoholic lackout . He 'd wake up not even emembering his `` act of revenge . ''
LISA: No . But he holds on .
MILO: Nobody 's gon na hurt you . Slowly , he wraps his arms around her .
LISA: Milo ?
MILO: Hmm ?
LISA: I always felt if a boy I liked ever found out he 'd run . He 'd think I was unclean .
MILO: No , no . Never .
VOICE: You 're sure .
ALICE: He said it made sense that Gary 's code was like Teddy 's , that that clich about great minds was true . Said it was all about his own guilt . Plus , he has a tendency to get Gary mixed-up with his dad once in a while . It always passes .
PHIL: He was n't acting ?
ALICE: I do n't think he knows how . Phil looks convinced . Gary does n't .
LISA: What about the FBI ?
MILO: They 've got this guy in the DOJ , maybe others . We tell the wrong person , it 's over .
LISA: Who can we trust ?
MILO: There 's always a logical answer you just have to define the question . She defines it
LISA: How do you let go of a secret without telling the wrong person .
MILO: We do n't tell anybody . We tell everybody . At once . So there 's no secret left to protect . When everybody knows , they do n't dare touch us .
SHROT: No , Tony ca n't fill in for you , he 's not at your authorization level .
LEN: Bob ? You better look at this .
MILO: Do we post it on the Net ?
LISA: There 're so many disinformation sites about Gary already . Where he has devil 's horns or they crop him in with Saddam Hussein .
SHROT: Could it be a glitch ? Something the construction workers caused ?
LEN: Unlikely . All 14 cameras are frozen . Do we call Randy and Phil ? Tell 'em there may have been a break-in ?
SHROT: Not yet . 'Love to bust my ass cause I 'm not in frigging Mensa . I swear to God , it 's that kid Milo , I told 'em so in the first place , ut they did n't even wan na hear about it . Let 's run a printout on card entries .
LISA: The mainstream media . TV , or a newsmagazine .
MILO: Right . But Gary 's tied-in to a lot of media conglomerates . Have to be careful who we pick .
LISA: We could cross-reference a data base on media ownership . But not on ou own computers . Not even at home .
MILO: Certainly not at my happy home . He slams the hood .
GARY: You look a little tired .
MILO: I 'm okay . It 's going well !
GARY: 'Have a look ?
MILO: Sure . Gary takes the page . As he reads it over
GARY: Why did you move around so much ? When you were a kid .
MILO: My dad was a compulsive gambler . Only he did n't think he was . That applied to guys who did n't have a `` system . '' `` Losers , '' who played games of chance . He could `` read '' people , so chance had nothing to do with it . No matter how deep a hole he dug himself , he 'd give you the whole speech . And you 'd better not point out the obvious . His creditors would catch up to him . Loan sharks or whatever . He 'd wake us in the middle of the night . Off we 'd go , again .
GARY: What would you tell the kids ? At your new school ? You had to come up with a good story , right ? Milo thinks he 's testing me .
MILO: No . I just went deeper into the machine . Preferred being the geek to having to explain . Lying would 've een worse .
GARY: Worse ?
MILO: Cause he was a liar . And I hated him . `` Get your head out of that machine , wise up to the real world . '' The more he mocked me the deeper I went . Cause if being savvy meant being like him Guess that 's why I 'm kind of clueless , even now . Did n't cultivate my conniving side . 'Not sure I even have one .
GARY: Do n't be so hard on yourself . With a ain like yours , you could connive with the best of 'em I bet . Gary smiles . There 's no way to read it .
MILO: He 's buying up pretty much everything cable companies , baby bells , picture libraries , museum rights , film archives Getting ready for Skywire .
LISA: What about `` 60 Minutes . ''
MILO: Yeah , they dig stuff like this . `` CBS News has partnered with Outpost Information Systems in a cable news network due to launch Fall of 2001 . ''
LISA: But still , you ca n't say CBS would n't love to break something like
MILO: Say there 's just one `` mole '' working there , like Barton at the DOJ . How do we know he 's not the guy we 've contacted ? Or she ? Or the guy she works for ?
LISA: Time ?
MILO: Time-Warner has a 40 per cent stake in Gary 's set-top device . That also takes out CNN . `` GE joins Outpost in new venture , '' which means NBC is out . `` Disney joins Outpost , '' ABC is out . `` Outpost and Newscorp in new deal , '' Fox is out . Any of these places could have a mole . Or all of 'em . It 's like a a continuous loop . We can go to some alternative press place that 1,000 people read , get them and us killed . But anything big enough for this is a parent of or a subsidiary to something Gary 's got a finger in !
HOMEWORK KID: Shhh .
MILO: Sorry .
LISA: Milo ?
MILO: What ?
LISA: He 's got 12 satellites up . He 's got dishes on top of 21 . He 's building this mega-network for Skywire . Let 's use it .
MILO: We ca n't just assume they 're standing y to receive Skywire 12 months from launch . I 'd have to write in an aglet .
LISA: A what ?
MILO: It 's how on-line services push logos they wan na sell you . You do n't ask for 'em , they just appear . 'Have to work on it somewhere besides my office or my house . And then the quality of the broadcast would n't exactly be digital , that 's 12 months away .
LISA: But they 'd still get the idea , right ?
MILO: You 'd have to design a graphic interface to make the data pop . Maybe some audio , too . To tie it all in to Gary . How long would that take you ?
LISA: It 's a standard GUI . Once I 've got a concept , it 's maybe three day 's work .
MILO: Gary knows I 'm close on Skywire . We have to do this fast .
LISA: Before they kill somebody else , too .
MILO: Oh , man . I 'd have to get into Gary 's house . To get the satellite positions .
LISA: You mean break in ?
MILO: I do n't know
LISA: And what if the broadcast dishes on top of 21 are n't hot yet ? You said the place is n't finished .
MILO: Why were you so careless ?
LISA: I thought the worst they would do is fire me . Who knew they took termination so literally ?
MILO: Why were you snooping in my office ?
LISA: Oh . I liked you . I was checking you out .
MILO: I told Teddy about you .
LISA: What 'd he say ?
MILO: `` A beautiful geek ? What 're the chances ? '' She smiles , rather bashfully .
LISA: Gary . It 's painful for him losing a second father .
MILO: Larry used to say how the guys who wrote the first cool operating systems , like the UNIX guys at Berkeley ? They just gave it away . They figured it was human knowledge , it belonged to the world , like Shakespeare or aspirin . 'Know what I 'm gon na do after we broadcast the incriminating stuff ? Air the Skywire code . Then nobody can have a monopoly .
ALICE: Where were you ? You know you ca n't keep anything from me .
MILO: Okay , yeah . I did something naughty There 's this amazing Comix store in Seattle . To tell you the truth , I did it once or twice at Stanford . 'Guess I ca n't keep anything from you Of course she buys it it 's in the file .
ALICE: I wo n't turn you in .
LEN: Every entry was authorized .
SHROT: Keep looking .
LEN: What 're we looking for ?
SHROT: Any irregularity in the pattern .
TV VOICE: Last years ' party-goers pledged ove $ 2 million to the Museum ; this year 's event promises to raise even more . Lured in part by the chance to see the stunning Boyd house
MILO: Look at this .
ALICE: What ?
MILO: Why does n't he ask us to his party . He 's never even met you .
ALICE: He has thousands of employees , Milo
MILO: It 's for the Museum . He knows you 're a painter . If anybody should be invited
ALICE: Milo
MILO: I know you think I 'm too attached to him , but still . I am close to Gary . And you 're the most meaningful person in my life . I 'm going back to the Comix place , why should I be killing myself .
ALICE: Milo , you
GUARD: Hey ! Get down here !
MILO: This is a lifesaver . My PC crashed just before finals .
SISTER BEATRICE: None of us knows how to use it . I 'm thinking of taking a course . May I ?
MILO: Sure . With her , we see the complex lines of code .
SISTER BEATRICE: Forget it .
LISA: I needed t'see it up close for a graphic . The outpost with a dish on top ? I climbed up there to get it ight .
SHROT: Next time you ask .
LEN: 'Might of found something .
SHROT: Let 's get him in here .
MILO: Great . I knocked off the aglet , as soon as I get a passable version of Skywire we 're there .
LISA: The dishes are juiced up , too .
MILO: Thank God .
LISA: Milo ? Shrot suspects somebody broke into # 21 . I was in his office when he was reviewing the card readouts .
MILO: They know I broke in . Alice helped me . Shrot 's not one of them . He 's lundering into this on his own .
LISA: He does n't know about the Day Care .
MILO: Hardly anybody does , that 's the beauty part . No cameras , the DOJ does n't other with it , it 's accessed by a tunnel they boast about . You know the best place to hide a leaf ?
LISA: Yeah , that 's old , in a tree .
MILO: Oh .
LISA: Milo ? What if Shrot notices somebody entered the Day Care at four A.M. ? And tells them about it ?
GARY: Milo ?
MILO: That 's great ! Thanks .
GARY: 'Sorry about the late notice Milo sits down . Everybody 's looking at him .
DESI: `` Sorry about the late notice ? ''
SHROT: Why did you enter # 21 twice ?
DELBERT: Huh ?
LISA: One window 'll be obits I downloaded , ased on the scenarios you described . The other windows 'll accommodate the surveillance stuff you told me about . The idea is , this works with anything , since we ca n't edit .
MILO: Perfect . How am I gon na get away from the party long enough to
LISA: You could always say you have to go the bathroom .
MILO: That 's lame , is n't it ?
LISA: You 'll come up with something .
ALICE: They called the house to ask who 's your favorite painter .
HOUSEMAN: Sorry , Sir , this part of the residence is restricted . Milo looks a little more tense
GARY: Alice , I 'm Gary . This is my wife , Clarissa . Milo , this is Barry Linder , who 's visiting from Hollywood . LINDER is a short , tan man of 50 .
LINDER: I hate being the Hollywood guy . It 's so limiting . Meet my friend , Ricky .
RICKY: Hi , guys .
GARY: Barry 's studio 's gon na help fill the Skywire pipeline , thought you guys should meet .
MILO: Cool . ANGLE the orchestra , playing . ANGLE a group of SOCIETY TYPES chatting .
SOCIETY WOMAN: He 's a sweetheart . He gave 10,000 PC 's to the Library Association .
SOCIETY MAN: All 10,000 of which will be signed onto his browser , no doubt .
SOCIETY WOMAN: And so what ? !
ANOTHER MAN: Wait 'll all the books are on-line .
SOCIETY WOMAN: And so what ?
LINDER: The merchandising implications are epic . A kid 's watching the movie , he points and clicks at the laser blaster efore the reel 's even over he 's ordered the toy .
ALICE: But , I mean Devil 's Advocate wo n't that influence the content ? Wo n't the artists complain ? The directors or writers or whoever ?
LINDER: Artists ? Darling , the only art left in America is business . You 're in Picasso 's house !
MILO: Where 's the bathroom ?
LINDER: The irreverence ! Laughter .
HOUSEMAN: You 'll have to use one over there .
MILO: There 's like eight women waiting in line . They take forever . Please ?
HOUSEMAN: Right here .
GARY: `` Dear Lisa . I 've enjoyed working with you . I 'd be lying if I did n't say I find you attractive . But in my heart I know that Alice '' You left my party to send E-mail ?
MILO: I could n't do it at work cause of security or at home for obvious easons .
GARY: You could 've handwritten it .
MILO: I 'm not much good at handwriting . O parties .
GARY: Oh , that 's right . You 're `` clueless . '' This hangs there .
MILO: Gary , I 'm sorry if I was rude The Second Houseman sticks his head in .
HOUSEMAN: Everything OK , Mr. Boyd ?
GARY: No problem . Is there ?
MILO: Gary , I
GARY: You see what 's hanging on the wall ?
MILO: I do know , Gary . I feel the same way . I thought I was coming here fo a job . But it 's meant a lot more .
GARY: When will you have a Beta version ?
MILO: I 'm pretty close . But when I wrote the last contact switches , it wiped out a piece of the content filer . You know what it 's like , writing software .
GARY: I do know . You focus on the big problem . But somewhere down the chain , something breaks down . Something gets destroyed . At first it 's upsetting . You feel you 've lost control .
ALICE: Are you gon na tell me where you went ?
MILO: I went to see the Skywire model in Gary 's office . You know . Just to hold it again .
ALICE: Are you having an affair , Milo ?
MILO: No . No . I sent an E-mail to somebody , just now . To tell her how I feel about you . You know I 'm clueless , without you . You know I
ALICE: Just shut up ?
LEN: Get the backslash , the colon , keys kids do n't use but geeks do . What would Milo want in here , anyway ?
SHROT: They know . 'Just they do n't trust me with it . So we 'll get the evidence , first , ask questions later .
LISA: Does he know you know ?
MILO: He suspects I know something . I think he was sort of explaining himself to me , in case I do . We have to go in tonight . I 'm two hours from a Beta version . But I 've got ta go home for an hour .
LISA: Why ? !
MILO: She called to apologize . I said I was pulling an all-nighter . She said then come home just to say Hi . Which I always do when we fight , it 's suspicious if I do n't .
LISA: Please do n't go .
MILO: At this point the worst thing I could do is anything out of the ordinary .
LISA: Here 's the interface .
ALICE: I 'm a mess ! I got this Hunan cookbook , since we 're always afraid for you to eat in Chinese restaurants . I 've een mincing things into teeny-tiny pieces all afternoon .
MILO: Great !
ALICE: Look at me ! I 'm gon na change .
MILO: You look beautiful .
ALICE: Yeah ? Give me a goodbye kiss .
MILO: What ?
ALICE: I know you . You 're gon na run back to work right after dinner . I want my kiss now .
MILO: Do n't we have any chopsticks ?
ALICE: Oh , right . Hold on .
MILO: One more minute But here 's Alice . She slips into her seat .
ALICE: Here we go .
MILO: Great . He unwraps the chopsticks rather slowly .
ALICE: It 's gon na get cold .
MILO: Right . Wait . A toast .
ALICE: You 're just afraid to eat it . She smiles , picks up her glass .
MILO: To the artist .
SECRETARY: Milo , hi ! How was the party ?
MILO: Great ! Great ! Thanks for asking !
LEN: You calling Phil and Randy ?
SHROT: I 'm calling Gary .
LEN: Where we going ?
PHIL: He 's in the Day Care .
LEN: Bob , I 'm a programmer , not a cop . In his haste , Shrot does n't even hear him .
SHROT: What are you doing ?
MILO: You 're better off not knowing . Shrot thinks he 's being mocked , as usual .
SHROT: What 're you doing ? ! Milo sets down one of the towers .
MILO: They 're surveilling programmers from in here . They steal their code . Sometimes I know this sounds insane sometimes they kill one . Shrot looks skeptical .
RANDY: What 's going on here ? Randy sees Shrot and Len .
SHROT: Who 're these guys ?
RANDY: Where is he ?
SHROT: We 're too late . Take a look .
RANDY: He must be out there still
SHROT: Forget about it . His car 's not in the lot , he 's gone !
VOICE: Hey ! Milo turns . It 's Desi , again .
DESI: Wan na get a cheeseburger or something ?
MILO: Maybe another time .
RANDY: Fellas , I 'm gon na have to ask you to leave here now .
SHROT: Wait a second . I 'm the one who found out he was mucking around in here in the first place .
RANDY: We 're all grateful for that . Really . Go out the way you came in ?
MILO: Meet me at the other location .
LISA: But you said the other
PHIL: Yeah , alright . He 's off campus , he 's taken some surveillance data with him . Gary 's eyes narrow .
MILO: Brian here ? Brian Bissel ?
RANDY: Nothing . They have n't booted-up yet .
MILO: This is the biggest Beta demo in like the history of software . You 'd e my partner .
BRIAN: You ca n't pre-empt Yoga , that 's ou iggest show .
MILO: Brian ! You wan na be a big deal , do n't you ? That 's your dream in life .
BRIAN: Will I get to work for Outpost ?
MILO: No . But you can write your own ticket in the Valley after this . We 're gon na ing down Outpost .
BRIAN: What ?
MILO: What 'd they ever do for you ? Brian 's thinking it over . He shrugs .
BRIAN: Okay .
MILO: Great . Great ! We need to drag a lot of heavy stuff in front of the door
BRIAN: What ? !
MILO: Wan na be a part of history ?
PHIL: Nothing yet , Gary
RANDY: We 've got a fix on 'em . 218 North Jericho Road .
PHIL: He 's taken it to the public access station .
GARY: That 's what he was doing in here .
PHIL: Gary ? Gary throws a printed spiral notebook at him .
GARY: Help me change the Skywire settings . Add five degrees to each satellite coordinate .
PHIL: Gary , do n't worry , we
GARY: Just do what I 'm asking !
BRIAN: You 're interfaced with our dish .
MILO: Gim me the coordinates ? Lisa reads from Milo 's little pad .
LISA: Longitude 77 degrees , 03 minutes , 58 seconds East . Milo types on the laptop .
PHIL: 19 seconds South . Altitude 431 Miles .
BRIAN: Is it your software ?
MILO: Is it your dish ?
LISA: Maybe it 's the satellite .
MILO: Let 's try # 2 .
GARY: Okay , # 2 .
PHIL: Longitude 48 degrees 06 minutes
LISA: They 're already here . My laptop must e wired !
BRIAN: Milo ?
MILO: We 're there . Milo hits enter .
LISA: You checked your connections ?
BRIAN: Yes ! Should you reboot ?
MILO: He knows .
LISA: What ?
MILO: He 's been altering the coordinates since we logged on . He 's a step ahead . Let 's jump to # 12 .
PHIL: Ready for number three ?
GARY: Let 's go .
PHIL: Longitude 109
GARY: Wait He knows .
PHIL: What ?
GARY: 'Knows I 'm altering the coordinates . Let 's jump to # 12 .
PHIL: Gary ?
GARY: Just do it .
GUNTHER: Step aside . We wo n't hurt you .
LISA: Latitude 47 degrees .
MILO: Wait a second . He knows I know .
BRIAN: What ? !
MILO: He 's working backwards , too . Let 's do number five ?
LISA: Longitude 66 . Milo types .
BRIAN: You there yet ?
MILO: One more second .
BRIAN: Hey , hey , relax , relax !
LISA: Oh my God .
BRIAN: Should I call Phil ? Or do you ?
GUNTHER: Wait .
BRIAN: When did you know ?
MILO: You should 've called a few times to ug me about your job prospects .
LISA: Milo ? Who 's got Skywire ?
PHIL: If Milo did n't launch Skywire , who did ? We hear a low steady hum .
SHROT: Now what are we doing ? I do n't get any of this shit !
LEN: I launched Skywire . Just pray the last set of coordinates Milo sent me connected us to Gary 's satellite .
RIMAN: You know the scenario for this .
MILO: 'Last thing you wan na do is hurt us now . Right ?
GUNTHER: Who 's seeing this ?
BRIAN: Who is n't ?
LAWYER: The `` murder '' stuff is all innuendo ad PR , legally null . 'Could probably e spun as Urban Legend . There is a case for corporate espionage , but if you cop a plea , you 'll get a slap
GARY: Cop a plea ? I 'm confused , Ted . You think I knew about this ? The Lawyers suppress their opinion .
LAWYER: The government 's gon na offer 'em a helluva deal to tie you into this . Whether you knew about it or not .
LAWYER 2: Randy , Phil and whoever else knew about it .
GARY: That wo n't be a problem .
LAWYER 2: Easy to spin , old as the hills What 's good for Outpost is good for America . He hands the pad to Gary .
MILO: Come on , Bob . Load in the other disk .
GARY: `` I had no knowledge of these activities , but I have to ask myself if the competitive environment I encouraged in some small way contributed ``
LAWYER: Gary ?
LARRY KING: That 'd change with a criminal indictment .
CYBER PUNDIT: There 's no hard evidence he knew about this . Anybody who could implicate him seems to 've vanished .
MILO: Larry , Lisa .
LARRY: Your app kind of blew mine out of the water .
MILO: We 'll come up with the next big thing .
LARRY: You wan na work here ?
MILO: Got out of my other commitment . Larry hugs Milo . Turns to Lisa
LARRY: May I ?
MILO: Hey , wait ! Not giving everything away . The Mover sets it down , moves on .
LARRY: C'mon . Bring your stuff .
MILO: Cool .
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Terrific ! You should feel insignificant !
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: YES ! ! ! You know , people ask me , `` Doctor , why are you always happy ? '' And I tell them it 's mind ove matter . I do n't mind that I do n't u > matter ! Do you get it ? Do you get it ? Z gives a fake smile .
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: I 'm glad you asked me that question !
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Right ! Ants ! Millions of creatures , each with his assigned task , all pulling together !
MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR: Zyou need help . Whoops ! We 're gon na have to stop there . Your minute is up !
AZTECA: Hello ? ! Earth to Z ! You better snap out of it , or there 's gon na be a lot of pissed off ants !
AZTECA: Z , old pal SHUT UP ! ! ! It 's bad enough there 's a food shortage without you complaining about it every day .
AZTECA: No , Z . The squeaky wheel gets thrownaway , alright ? You 're a good ant , Z , even though you are a pain in my rear- segment . I do n't wan na see anything happen to you . So quit mouthing off , before you get in trouble .
AZTECA: Break 's over .
AZTECA: Who cares , Z . All I know is , we got ta dig . We 're not the ones in charge .
GENERAL FORMICA: STAIRS !
CARPENTER: Yes , sir .
GENERAL FORMICA: What have they got to complain about ? Three square meals a day
CARPENTER: Actually , sir , we 've cut them down to three roughly rectangular meals a week .
FORMICA: Do n't give me statistics , Carpenter . I know what I 'm talking about . DOORS !
QUEEN: Ah ! General Formica .
FORMICA: We are launching a major offensive to expand our foraging territory
QUEEN: Yes , what else ?
FORMICA: Please do n't worry , your majesty . Leave the worrying to me . As you know , I 'm not an ant of half- measures . I do n't pussyfoot around . This crisis is my number one priority , and I promise you it 's eing dealt with swiftly , and decisively .
QUEEN: No snacking between meals ! Off you go ! Now what were we saying ?
FORMICA: I do not recollect , your majesty . Will that be all ?
QUEEN: Yes , General Formica . Carry on , my good man ! I do n't know what we would do without you .
CARPENTER: Princess Bala , sir . Your fiancee .
FORMICA: Princess ! You look outstanding . Is there anything I can do for you ?
BALA: Well I thought since we 're getting marriedit might be nice if wegot to know one another . Formica looks confused .
QUEEN: Bala has always been a hopeless omantic , General .
BALA: It 's just that well , I 'm honored that you selected me , and everything , I just thought the marriage might go a little more smoothly if we had a conversation ?
FORMICA: Conversationyeswell Was n't she briefed ?
QUEEN: Look , General ! A darling baby soldier ! Do n't try to be a hero ! Just make sure you come back in one piece ! Next !
FORMICA: I 'll take your suggestion unde advisement , Princess . In the meanwhile Formica turns to go .
BALA: General we have to talk sometime !
FORMICA: Very well . Carpenter , is there a convenient time to talk vis-a-vis elationship ?
CARPENTER: Actually , sir , we 're ahead of schedule . We have thirty-six seconds available right now .
FORMICA: Outstanding . Princess ? Bala 's a little fazedbut grabs her chance .
BALA: So , umhow was your day ? What did you do ?
FORMICA: Well I declared war !
BALA: Ohand I was afraid we had nothing in common
CARPENTER: Fourteen-fifty hours , sir .
FORMICA: Duty calls !
QUEEN: I felt the same way before I got married . Confused . Scared .
BALA: You did ?
QUEEN: Yes but I did my duty and sorted out all those messy feelings . The wonderful thing about ant life is that everything is arranged . Even marriage . You 're lucky General Formica is a paragon of anthood .
BALA: Yeshe 's wonderful
HANDMAIDEN #1: The General 's body segments are sosymmetrical .
HANDMAIDEN #2: I 'd let him order me into battle anyday . Bala hurls the swatch book against the wall .
HANDMAIDEN #1: Princess ? What 's wrong ?
BALA: Wrong ? How could anything be wrong ? I 'm going to marry General Formica and be a queen and have millions of abies , just like my mom . Do I look fat to you ?
HANDMAIDEN #2: Pre-wedding jitters .
HANDMAIDEN #1: You just need to blow off some steam . Let 's go to the bar at the Royal Club !
BALA: The Club 's so stuffy . I want to try someplace different .
HANDMAIDEN #2: There is n't anyplace else Except the worker bar .
BALA: The worker bar ! Yes ! That 's where I want to go ! The handmaidens look shocked .
HANDMAIDEN #1: But we ca n't there 'll be u > workers there .
WEAVER: I 'll be back .
APHIDS: Ouch ! Ouch !
BARTENDER: Two aphid beers .
WEAVER: I do n't know what you 're talking about , Z .
WEAVER: Yeah , but you get to spend all day with those fabulous worker babes .
WEAVER: Who said there was a girl for you ? I was talking about a girl for me . Do n't you want your aphid beer ?
WEAVER: Z , we 've known each other a long time , right ?
WEAVER: And all the time I 've known you , you 've been grumping and groaning . You should quit making waves . Go with the flow .
DRUNK SCOUT: Have you been to Insectopia ? Have
DRUNK SCOUT: I was cut off from my unit found it by mistake It changed my life ! You see ya follow the great yellow egg , and you come to the land of red and white
SOLDIERS: You 've had enough for one night ! Come on , Gramps , before you get in trouble .
WEAVER: Poor guy 's had one too many scouting missions .
HANDMAIDEN #2: We should n't be doing this it is n't proper !
BALA: I 'm the Princess , are n't I ?
HANDMAIDEN #2: Of course
BALA: And do Princesses do improper things ?
HANDMAIDEN #2: Of course not
BALA: Then if I go to the worker bar , it is n't improper . Anyway , do n't worry . No one will recognize us in ou disguises .
BARKER: Okay , folks . It 's six-fifteen , and that means it 's time to dance .
WEAVER: Time to cut a rug , Z !
WEAVER: Well , you just sit here and be a party-pooper .
BARKER: And a left-right-quarterstep-back step-halfstep a left-right- quarterstep-backstep-halfstep a left-right-quarterstep-backstep halfstep
BALA: I 'm going to ask one of these mindless , primitive worker-types to dance with me !
HANDMAIDEN #1: But General Formica would be furious !
BALA: I know .
BALA: Wan na dance ?
BALA: I work in the palace , I do n't get out much .
BALA: u > What ?
BALA: Are you sure this is a real dance ?
BALA: Really ?
BALA: You 're right !
BALA: Why ca n't I just do whatever I want to do ? Why ca n't I just go wild ? ! Yahoo !
SOLDIER: Hey ! Watch your step , worker .
BALA: You watch yours , soldier , or my worker friend will beat you up !
BALA: Are n't you gon na stand up fo yourself ?
SOLDIER: How come you do n't dance like the est of us ?
SOLDIER #2: An individual ? Never heard of it .
MANDIBLE: You look like a worker to me .
WEAVER: Hey , lay off my little buddy !
HANDMAIDEN #1: Princess Bala ! Princess Bala !
HANDMAIDEN #2: The police are coming !
BALA: Uh oh . Goodbye ! Got ta run !
BALA: Let me think . Hmmnn Never . Bye !
WEAVER: Get real , Z ! She just dropped the scarf by accident !
WEAVER: It 's a sign that you 're crazy ! Do you know what the penalty fo impersonating a soldier is ?
WEAVER: I ca n't think of any .
WEAVER: Will you introduce me to some worke girls ?
WEAVER: Maybe I 'll get lucky . You know , Z , I would n't do this for anyone but you Weaver hands Z has helmet .
WEAVER: Yeah , I know .
WEAVER: Do n't tell anyone you 're a worker . Follow that column over there . And come right back after the inspection !
LOUD VOICE: ATTEN-SHUN !
FORMICA: First of all , let me make one thing clear . Nobody ever won a battle by u > thinking for himself . All this `` thinking '' stuff is a load of crap . If the almighty had wanted you boys to think , he would n't have given you huge mandibles and a brain so small you 'd misplace it if it was n't u > trapped inside your head .
FORMICA: We ants survive as a species because we do what we 're told . We survive ecause we work together , as one , we get the job done , we do whatever it takes to persevere ! Hell , we 're not an army of antswe 're one giant ant , with u > giant fists , and giant jaws !
FORMICA: Now I 've heard a lot of scuttlebutt about a food shortage . Well you boys are gon na be taken care of . But in the meantime we 're gon na eat the enemy for breakfast , we are gon na eat the enemy for lunch , and we are gon na eat the enemy for dinner !
FORMICA: Dammit , I 'm proud to be an ant . And I know each and every one of you oys will do your duty . Dismissed .
COLONEL: Stow the gab there , soldier ! Let 's move 'em out !
BALA: Who is that idiot ?
QUEEN: Darling , you must encourage the troops wave !
BARBATUS: You new , kid ?
BARBATUS: Trial membership ? Kid , when you join this ant 's army , you 're in for the full hitch .
BARBATUS: Are you crazy , kid ? They shoot deserters ! Z swallows hard .
BARBATUS: No we 're going to attack the termites !
ANT SOLDIERS: We ants go marching one by one , hurrah , hurrah ! We slaughte termites just for fun , Hurrah ! Hurrah !
BARBATUS: No such luck . Those dirty terms are five times bigger than us , and they shoot acid from their foreheads !
SOLDIER ANTS: We ants go marching two by two , hurrah ! Hurrah ! We 'll all be dead efore we 're through , hurrah ! Hurrah !
BARBATUS: Our platoon has the best assignment of all . We 're the first into battle !
ANT SOLDIERS: We ants are marching three by three , hurrah ! Hurrah ! Dead ants is what we soon will be , hurrah ! Hurrah !
BARBATUS: Superior numbers , kid !
COLONEL: ATTAAAAAAAAACK ! ! !
BARBATUS: Over the TOOOOOOOOOOOOO-OP ! ! !
COLONEL: u > Light it up !
BARBATUS: Keep your head down !
BARBATUS: Do n't get all sappy about it !
COLONEL: I love the smell of formic acid in the morning .
ANT OFFICER: He 's killed their Queen !
ANT OFFICER: VICTORY ! ! !
ANT OFFICER: Let 's slaughter them all !
BARBATUS: Be honest , kid am I hurt bad ?
BARBATUS: No I can see it in your eyes . I 'm a goner . It 's alright , Z . In this ant 's army , a soldier 's life ai n't worth a sack of fungus . I ca n't feel my legs
BARBATUS: I wonderwhatwas it allfor
BARBATUS: Do n't make my mistake , kid don'tbe a gruntyour whole life Barbatus dies , leaving Z heartbroken .
AZTECA: Hey , slow it down , big boy . You 're making the rest of us look badHow come I have n't seen you around here efore ?
WEAVER: I 'm newI was born yesterday .
AZTECA: Tell me about it .
WEAVER: Nobody told me digging was so much fun ! You pick up the dirt , you move it , you pick it up again , you move it again lots of repetitions , you exercise the forceps , and the pincers
AZTECA: Mmm , yes , I see what you mean
FOREMAN: What 's the holdup here ? !
WEAVER: Sorry , sir I was just having a little chat with my friend
FOREMAN: Who said you could have a chat ? You 're not a chatter , you 're a digger ! So shut up and dig !
AZTECA: Leave him alone ! He 's new .
FOREMAN: You too ? Well just for that , you lose your day 's rations ! Now get ack to work !
AZTECA: I do n't know what came over me , talking back like that . I must be going crazy
WEAVER: Sorry I got you in trouble . But listen , you can share my rations .
AZTECA: Are you asking me out to dinner ?
WEAVER: No I mean yes I mean if you do n't have other plans .
AZTECA: I 'll make myself availableListen , etter watch out with the acktalk . I do n't know want you to end up like the guy who used to work next to me . I 'm afraid he got u > downsized .
GUARD ANT: Look ! They 're back ! The army 's ack ! Alert the colony !
EXCITED ANTS: The army 's returned ! Our brave boys are back !
AZTECA: It looks like only one soldier made it back ! Weaver looks distraught .
WEAVER: Poor Z I should never have let you go !
FORMICA: ONE TO NOTHING ! WE WIN !
FORMICA: Damn , I 'm proud of you , boy . I wish I had a hundred ants of your caliber . The world would tremble . Now , time for some R and R. You 're invited to the royal victory party !
FORMICA: Of course . The entire royal family will be there to honor you .
AZTECA: Wait a minute , that 's no soldier that 's Z !
WEAVER: Z ? Our Z ? The little guy made it !
FORMICA: Son , you 're an ant after my own heart . A warrior . An ant that looks death right in the face and laughs .
FORMICA: Well she better she 's engaged to one . Me !
FORMICA: Affirmative .
FORMICA: In love ? I 'm just a plain old soldier at heart . I 'll tell you what I love the field blood death ordersand the company of othe warriors .
FORMICA: Yes , and do you know why there 's a food shortage ?
FORMICA: Negatory . Too many ants . And while we soldiers go out there , and fight , and bleed , and die for the colony , the namby-pamby workers live it up ack home . Feeling a little hot , Z wipes his brow .
FORMICA: I tell you son , sometimes , at night , I see myself in battle , fighting a horrible , faceless enemy , with the future of our whole species at stake . And always , the dream ends with each of us plunging his sword into the other 's heart
OFFICER: What do you call it when 10,000 workers are killed in a tunnel cave- in ? Who cares ? They 're workers !
BALA: You 're the hero of the recent termite campaign , are n't you ?
BALA: I 'm Princess Bala .
BALA: Yes .
QUEEN: All these parties are so marvellously u > alike .
FORMICA: They should be But there 's something funny about that soldier .
BALA: No , General . I 'm dancing with the war hero .
BALA: You dance
BALA: No weirdlyYou remind me of someone
BALA: Quiet sshhh ! !
BALA: SSHH ! ! ! SSHH ! ! !
FORMICA: What 's this ? A worker has been masquerading as a war hero ? !
FORMICA: ARREST HIM !
QUEEN: Oh my god ! He 's taking her hostage !
PRINCESS: This is thoroughly unacceptable !
BALA: I 'm coming ! I 'm coming !
BALA: I order you to find out where we are !
BALA: Climb up that tree and get a bette view !
BALA: How dare you speak to me like that ? I 'm the Princess ! Z squares up with her .
BALA: Of course ! It defines society ! To deny the precept is to say that orde is an arbitrary distinction applied y the society itself !
BALA: No ! There 's no such thing as `` just two ants . '' You never see just two ants you see a million ants !
BALA: I hate you .
BALA: Ha ! Do n't make me laugh . You 're crazy about me ! That 's why you lied and cheated to get near me !
BALA: I was slumming it ! I danced with you ecause you were the most pathetic specimen in the place !
BALA: I did n't choose him . What kind of u > idiot would choose who she wanted to marry ? She shakes herself out of it .
BALA: Insectopia ? You stupid worker , that 's just a fairy tale !
BALA: Worker ! Come back here now !
BALA: That 's not a name ! That 's just a letter !
AZTECA: I tell ya , I 'm gettin ' sick of bein ' yelled at .
WORKER #1: What do you want , we 're just workers .
WEAVER: You know , you 're not just workers you can be whatever you want to be ! Look at Z ! He started as a worker then he became a soldier !
AZTECA: That 's right ! He slaughtered hundreds of termites single-handedly !
WORKER #2: I heard about this guy . He crashed a party at the palace . Then he took a hike with one of the oyal babes ! And when they tried to stop him , he just looked at a couple ' a guards , and they burst into flames !
WEAVER: Well , because he 's more than a workerhe 's awhat did he call it , Azteca
AZTECA: Invisible !
WEAVER: No an individual !
WORKER #2: What 's that ?
WEAVER: Well , it'ssomeone with his own point of viewsomeone who does what he wants , not whatever he 's told to do !
AZTECA: Someone who follows his heart !
WEAVER: Rightbecause every ant 's important !
WORKER #2: But that would mean I 'm important .
WORKER #1: I 'm outta here , this sounds like trouble to me . But more ants are gathering 'round .
WEAVER: We can all be individuals ! Just like
BALA: Waterwater
BALA: My skin 's dry , my exoskeleton is crackingI wish I 'd never met you , you ruined my life .
BALA: Look out !
BALA: Why did n't I listen to my mothe why 'd I have to go looking fo trouble ? Any ant would have given their left legs to be in my positionwhat 's wrong with me ?
BALA: Wait , I hear something !
BALA: WATER ! ! !
BALA: Cut me down a soft leaf so I can take a nap .
BALA: Out here I 'm just what ?
BALA: Stop fooling around in there .
BALA: General Formica wo n't let me die out here . I 'm his fiancee .
BALA: Five thousand three hundred and ninety no . About five thousand four hundred by now .
BALA: Wellno , but
BALA: WellI am the oldest .
FORMICA: Dammit , this tunnel is priority A-1 ! We ca n't afford any delays on this project !
CARPENTER: I 've never seen anything like it , General , they 're they'rewell , look !
WORKER ANTS: Z ! Z ! Z ! Z !
FOREMAN: Where do ya think you 're going ? Get ack to work !
WORKER #1: Buzz off , I 'm important !
FORMICA: Notice the big one , holding hands with the female ?
CARPENTER: Well , uh , who notices workers , sir ?
FORMICA: No one should have to . Have him ought to me .
WEAVER: YeahI meanwellI do n't know , eally , sir .
FORMICA: Well now you have n't fallen for this silly idea of individuality , have you ?
WEAVER: Oh , no , sir !
FORMICA: Good . You 're a good soldier .
WEAVER: Thank you , sir . Weaver begins to relax a bit .
FORMICA: So tell me . Where 's Z ?
WEAVER: II have no idea , sir .
FORMICA: Okay , son . He pats Weaver on the shoulder .
WEAVER: That 's correct , sir !
FORMICA: Not that one . Or that one .
WEAVER: No , sir !
FORMICA: Or that one ? Her life does n't matter , does it ?
AZTECA: Do n't tell that tightass anything , Weaver !
WEAVER: Wait ! Just let her go ! Z 's long gone anyway , following some golden egg to Insectopia ! You 'll neve catch him ! Formica 's face lights up .
FORMICA: Insectopia , hunh ? See why individuality is so dangerous ? It can always be used against you . If this sissy here wants to dig , he 'll dig . Send them both back to the tunnel project . Double thei workload . The guards exit with Weaver and Azteca .
CARPENTER: Scattered reports , sir . Rumors . Nothing reliable .
FORMICA: Desperate times call for desperate measures . Get me Ant Team Six .
CARPENTER: Ant Team Six
BALA: I swear , we 've passed this blade of grass three times . Z keeps marching on .
BALA: What difference does it makewe 're oth going to starve to death , or get squished , or set on fire
BALA: You were rightyou were right ! Z , it 's beautiful !
MALE WASP: You down there , have n't you ever been to a picnic ?
FEMALE WASP: Habla Ingles ? Well I really do n't know who they are .
MALE WASP: Poopsie , we know some ants , do n't we ? Are you related to the Fifth Avenue ants ?
FEMALE WASP: Darling , do you have to talk to any insect from off the street ?
MALE WASP: Just being friendly , Poopsie .
BALA: Hello ? I 'm not just `` any insect '' . My mother is the Queen . I 'm Princess Bala !
MALE WASP: They 're Eurotrash , dear .
BALA: What do you mean ?
MALE WASP: Well like my father used to say there 's no such thing as a free meal !
THE WASPS: Excuse me I 'll have some potato salad thank-you ! do n't mind if I do ! After you !
BALA: OhmyGod .
MALE WASP: Muffy ! Muffy ! Wake up !
BALA: MMMffllmmm
BALA: Z ! ! ! Get me out of heeeeere !
BALA: Z ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I 'm stuck !
BALA: Z ! You 're here !
BALA: Zif we do n't make itI just want you to know .
BALA: This is all your fault ! ! !
MAJOR MANDIBLE: And do n't come back , you sissy !
MANDIBLE: Talk to me .
COMMANDO ANT: Z and the Princess were here , sir . Signs of a struggle .
MANDIBLE: Let 's get a read on that feremone track .
TRACKER ANT: Balafind Bala
MANDIBLE: Z you dirt-digging , fancy-dancing , wisecracking , royalty-grabbing , rebel
BALA: Come on , Z .
FLY: What 's with the bummer attitude ? A nearby BUTTERFLY joins in .
BUTTERFLY: Yeah nobody stresses out in u > Insectopia !
BALA: Did you say
BALA: Z , we made it !
FLY: C'mon in ! The nectar 's fine !
FLY: Hey , take it easy ! There 's nothin ' to be afraid of !
CRICKET: Dude , here in Insectopia , we do n't judge people by how many arms and legs we 've got .
FLY: Yeah , back home , they called me a fruitfly . But here , I 'm known as Superfly .
CRICKET: Anyway , big Gus is mellow .
BALA: Just looking for fun , adventure , trouble , I guess .
BALA: You held onto this all that time ?
BEETLE: Hey Z !
TRACKER ANT: Yesyesyesyesyes
MANDIBLE: Talk to me .
COMMANDO #1: I 've got a read on the Princess ut target Z is n't accounted for .
MANDIBLE: Let 's move in .
CRICKET: What if , likewe 're just these tiny little things , and we 're just like part of this whole other huge universe , that 's like , so big we do n't even know it exists ?
LADYBUG: Manthat 's so deep
MANDIBLE: EVERYBODY DOWN !
BALA: Stop ! You do n't understand !
MANDIBLE: I do n't have to understand , Missy
FLY: Man , your girl is fly , know what I 'm saying ?
LADYBUG: Bala 's been kidnapped ! Some flying ants took her back to the colony !
MALE WASP: I know what it 's like to lose someoneI keep hearing the sound of Muffy 's flapping wingsso I 'll take you . Z hops on the wasp 's back .
FLY: Geez . I feel like a real stinkbug .
MALE WASP: Sorry . Turbulence .
FORMICA: Princess Bala . Good . Where 's Z ? Bala replies warily .
BALA: He'she 's dead . You do n't have to look for him anymore . He was eaten by a praying mantis .
FORMICA: It 's a shame he died prematurelyI was hoping to kill him myself .
BALA: Well you 'll never be able to hurt him where he is now . I miss him already .
FORMICA: You miss him ? Why ?
BALA: Becausebecause he 's twice the ant that you are . I could never go through with marrying you . I 'm I 'm an individual , and when I get married , it 'll be to someone I choose .
FORMICA: Princess Bala , I 'm just a simple old soldier , and the ways of the feminine mind are a little too complex for me . But one thing I do know is , there are more Princesses where you came from . I just hope they 're not all like you . In the meantime , maybe we can arrange for you to see Z again after all .
MALE WASP: Good luck , Z . For a wingless insect , you 're alright by me .
SOLDIER ANT: You there ! Worker !
SOLDIER ANT: What are you doing out here ! All workers are to remain inside the colony , by orders of General Formica !
QUEEN: Very impressive , General .
MANDIBLE: Wave that flag , you maggot !
FORMICA: Is there anything wrong , your majesty ? The Queen is looking around unhappily .
QUEEN: It 's justHow I miss Bala . I wish she were here for this special moment .
FORMICA: She is , your majesty . She is .
TRACKER ANT: Z ! Z ! I smell Z !
TRACKER ANT: Bala ! Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeah ! Find Bala ! Yeahyeahyeahyeah ! Z picks up the tracker ant .
TRACKER ANT: Yeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah
TRACKER ANT: BalaYeahyeahyeahyeahyeahyeah
BALA: Z ! You came back ! They HUG .
BALA: There 's something going on , Z
BALA: Oh no
BALA: Z ! ! ! Wait for me !
FORMICA: Your majesty , I 'm afraid matters of state keep me from attending the ceremony .
QUEEN: But General this tunnel is you aby ! You 're sure you ca n't stay ?
FORMICA: 'Fraid not , your majesty . Goodbye , your majesty .
QUEEN: Very well , General I know you all work and no play !
FORMICA: Alright , let 's move out !
QUEEN: In the name of the colony , I declare this tunnel open !
QUEEN: Bala !
BALA: Mom ! Z calls out to the crowd .
WORKER #1: Are you nuts ?
WORKER #2: Oh yeah ? What makes you so special , Mr. Know-It-All ?
WORKER #3: You 're Z ? Gim me a break ! Z 's ten milimeters tall !
WORKER #4: and he can kill termites with his are hands ! You 're just some scrawny worker with a mental problem !
WORKER #1: No you 're not !
WEAVER: Yes he is . Weaver steps out of the crowd .
WORKERS: Heyit is Zlisten to what he says ! .
WEAVER: ZI 'm so sorry ! I
QUEEN: Ohit 's that social-climbing worke again what does he want ?
MANDIBLE: Let 'er rip !
AZTECA: Listen !
WORKER #1: He 's right ! ! !
QUEEN: You there ! Stop ! I say !
AZTECA: There 's no way out !
QUEEN: We 're all going to drown ! ! !
BALA: Zwhat can we do ?
WORKER #1: Uhwe do n't dig any more . We 're individuals .
WORKER #2: Yeah . We 're too important to dig . You taught us that , Z . You hate digging !
WEAVER: You heard the ant DIG ! ! !
WORKER: He did it ! Z ! Z ! Z ! Z ! Z !
FORMICA: Z. I should have known . All that work , all that preparation , come to nothing . All because of one stinking ant .
FORMICA: Folks , you may have survived that flood , but there 's no way you 're gon na escape from me . I 'll make you a deal . Hand over the rebel leade Z , and you survive .
WEAVER: No , I 'm Z .
AZTECA: I 'm Z ! Next , Bala comes forward .
BALA: No , I 'm Z . More and more ants step forward .
WORKERS: I 'm Z ! I 'm Z ! I 'm Z and so is my other ! I 've been Z for weeks now !
QUEEN: u > We are Z .
ALL: I am Z ! I am Z ! I am Z !
FORMICA: ATTACK !
FLY: Hey , guys !
WASP: It 's them !
FLY: Say the word , Z , and we kick thei utts .
FORMICA: What are you doing ? ! ATTACK ! ! Come on , you yellow-bellies ! Do n't just stand there , Carpenter ! Make an example of yourself !
CARPENTER: Uh , actually , we are outnumbered sir
FORMICA: AHHHHHHH ! !
FORMICA: I guess it doesto the ant .
CARPENTER: Sir , if it 's any consolation , I still think you 're completely worthless as an individual .
BALA: A few ?
KIRKEBY: Come on , Sylvia . It 's getting late .
SYLVIA: What 's the panic ? I 'm going to have another martooni .
KIRKEBY: Please , Sylvia ! It 's a quarter to nine !
SYLVIA: First you ca n't wait to get me up here , and now rush , rush , rush ! Makes a person feel cheap .
KIRKEBY: Sylvia sweetie it 's not that but I promised the guy I 'd e out of here by eight o'clock , positively .
SYLVIA: What guy ? Whose apartment is this , anyway ?
KIRKEBY: What 's the difference ? Some schnook that works in the office .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Good evening , Mr. Baxter .
BUD: Good evening , Mrs. Lieberman .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Some weather we 're having . Must be from all the meshugass at Cape Canaveral . You locked out of your apartment ?
BUD: No , no . Just waiting for a friend . Good night , Mrs. Lieberman .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Good night , Mr. Baxter .
KIRKEBY: Come on come on , Sylvia !
SYLVIA: Some setup you got here . A real , honest-to-goodness love nest .
KIRKEBY: Sssssh .
SYLVIA: You 're one button off , Mr. Kirkeby .
KIRKEBY: Do n't you ever stop talking ?
SYLVIA: I told you with my mother .
KIRKEBY: Where does she live ?
SYLVIA: A hundred and seventy-ninth street the Bronx .
KIRKEBY: All right I 'll take you to the subway .
SYLVIA: Like hell you will . You 'll buy me a cab .
KIRKEBY: Why do all you dames have to live in the Bronx ?
SYLVIA: You mean you bring other girls up here ?
KIRKEBY: Certainly not . I 'm a happily married man .
BUD: Oh . Hello there , Mrs. Dreyfuss .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Something the matter ?
BUD: I seem to have dropped my key . Oh here it is .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Such a racket I heard in you place maybe you had burglars .
BUD: Oh , you do n't have to worry about that nothing in there that anybody would want to steal Good night , Mrs. Dreyfuss . He ducks into the apartment .
KIRKEBY: The little lady forgot her galoshes . He scours the room for the missing galoshes .
BUD: Mr. Kirkeby , I do n't like to complain but you were supposed to be out of here by eight .
KIRKEBY: I know , Buddy-boy , I know . But those things do n't always run on schedule like a Greyhound bus .
BUD: I do n't mind in the summer but on a rainy night and I have n't had any dinner yet
KIRKEBY: Sure , sure . Look , kid I put in a good word for you with Sheldrake , in Personnel .
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake ?
KIRKEBY: That 's right . We were discussing our department manpower-wise and promotion-wise and I told him what a bright boy you were . They 're always on the lookout for young executives .
BUD: Thank you , Mr. Kirkeby .
KIRKEBY: You 're on your way up , Buddy-boy . And you 're practically out of liquor .
BUD: I know . Mr. Eichelberger in the Mortgage Loan Department last night he had a little Halloween party here
KIRKEBY: Well , lay in some vodka and some vermouth and put my name on it .
BUD: Yes , Mr. Kirkeby . You still owe me for the last two bottles
KIRKEBY: I 'll pay you on Friday . And whatever happened to those little cheese crackers you used to have around ? He exits , shutting the door .
BUD: Cheese crackers . He carries his load into the kitchen .
DR. DREYFUSS: Good evening , Baxter .
BUD: Hi , Doc . Had a late call ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Yeah . Some clown at Schrafft 's 57th Street ate a club sandwich , and forgot to take out the toothpick .
BUD: Oh . 'Bye , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: Say , Baxter the way you 're elting that stuff , you must have a pair of cast-iron kidneys .
BUD: Oh , that 's not me . It 's just that once in a while , I have some people in for a drink .
DR. DREYFUSS: As a matter of fact , you must be an iron man all around . From what I hear through the walls , you got something going for you every night .
BUD: I 'm sorry if it gets noisy
DR. DREYFUSS: Sometimes , there 's a twi-night double-header . A nebbish like you !
BUD: Yeah . Well see you , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: You know , Baxter I 'm doing some esearch at the Columbia Medical Center and I wonder if you could do us a favor ?
BUD: Me ?
DR. DREYFUSS: When you make out your will and the way you 're going , you should would you mind leaving your body to the University ?
BUD: My body ? I 'm afraid you guys would e disappointed . Good night , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: Slow down , kid .
ANNOUNCER: from the world 's greatest library of film classics , we proudly present Greta Garbo John Barrymore Joan Crawford Wallace Beery and Lionel Barrymore in
BUD: Hello ? Hello ? yes , this is Baxter .
DOBISCH: Hiya , Buddy-boy . I 'm in this ba on Sixty-first Street and I got to thinking about you and I figured I 'd give you a little buzz .
BUD: Well , that 's very nice of you ut who is this ?
DOBISCH: Dobisch Joe Dobisch , in Administration .
BUD: Oh , yes , Mr. Dobisch . I did n't ecognize your voice
DOBISCH: That 's okay , Buddy-boy . Now like I was saying , I 'm in this joint on Sixty-first and I think I got lucky she 's a skater with the Ice Show and I thought maybe I could ing her up for a quiet drink .
BUD: I 'm sorry , Mr. Dobisch . You know I like to help you guys out but it 's sort of late so why do n't we make it some other time ?
DOBISCH: Buddy-boy she wo n't keep that long not even on ice . Listen , kid , I ca n't pass this up she looks like Marilyn Monroe .
BUD: I do n't care if it is Marilyn Monroe I 'm already in bed and I 've taken a sleeping pill so I 'm afraid the answer is no .
DOBISCH: Look , Baxter we 're making out the monthly efficiency rating and I 'm putting you in the top ten . Now you do n't want to louse yourself up , do you ?
BUD: Of course not . But how can I be efficient in the office if I do n't get enough sleep at night ?
DOBISCH: It 's only eleven and I just want the place for forty-five minutes .
BLONDE: I 'm getting lonely . Who are you talking to , anyway ?
DOBISCH: My mother .
BLONDE: That 's sweet . That 's real sweet . Dobisch shuts the door in her face .
DOBISCH: Make it thirty minutes . What do you say , Bud ?
BUD: I 'm all out of liquor and there 's no clean glasses no cheese crackers no nothing .
DOBISCH: Let me worry about that . Just leave the key under the mat and clear out .
BUD: Yes , Mr. Dobisch . He hangs up , shuffles back into the bedroom .
BLONDE: This the place ?
DOBISCH: Yeah . How much ?
CABBIE: Seventy cents .
DOBISCH: Get the money , will you ?
BLONDE: You sure this is a good idea ?
DOBISCH: Ca n't think of a better one .
BLONDE: I mean - barging in on you mother in the middle of the night ?
DOBISCH: Do n't worry about the old lady . One squawk from her , and she 's out of a job .
BLONDE: Under the mat ?
DOBISCH: Open up , open up we have n't got all night .
BLONDE: So this is your mother 's apartment ?
DOBISCH: That 's right . Maria Ouspenskaya .
BLONDE: Hiya , Ouspenskaya .
DR. DREYFUSS: Mildred he 's at it again . Shaking his head , he closes the door .
BUD: Good morning , Mr. Kirkeby .
KIRKEBY: Oh , how are you , Baxter . They keeping you busy these days ?
BUD: Yes , sir . They are indeed .
FRAN: Morning , Mr. Kessel Morning , Miss Robinson Morning , Mr. Kirkeby Morning , Mr. Williams Morning , Miss Livingston Morning , Mr. McKellway Morning , Mr. Pirelli Morning , Mrs. Schubert
BUD: Morning , Miss Kubelik .
STARTER: That 's all . Take it away .
FRAN: Watch the door , please . Blasting off .
BUD: What did you do to your hair ?
FRAN: It was making me nervous , so I chopped it off . Big mistake , huh ?
BUD: I sort of like it .
FRAN: Say , you got a lulu .
BUD: Yeah . I better not get too close .
FRAN: Oh , I never catch colds .
BUD: Really ? I was looking at some figures from the Sickness and Accident Claims Division do you know that the average New Yorke etween the ages of twenty and fifty has two and a half colds a year ?
FRAN: That makes me feel just terrible .
BUD: Why ?
FRAN: Well , to make the figures come out even since I have no colds a year some poor slob must have five colds a year .
BUD: That 's me .
FRAN: You should have stayed in bed this morning .
BUD: I should have stayed in bed last night .
FRAN: Nineteen . Watch your step .
KIRKEBY: I beg your pardon ?
FRAN: One of these days I 'm going to shut those doors on you and
KIRKEBY: That Kubelik boy ! Would I like to get her on a slow elevator to China .
BUD: Oh , yes . She 's the best operato in the building .
KIRKEBY: I 'm a pretty good operator myself ut she just wo n't give me a tumble date-wise .
BUD: Maybe you 're using the wrong approach .
KIRKEBY: A lot of guys around here have tried it all kinds of approaches no dice . What is she trying to prove ?
BUD: Could be she 's just a nice , espectable girl there are millions of them .
KIRKEBY: Listen to him . Little Lord Fauntleroy !
BUD: Hello , Mr. Dobisch ? This is Baxter , on the nineteenth floor .
DOBISCH: Oh , Buddy-boy . I was just about to call you . I 'm sorry about that mess on the living room wall . You see , my little friend , she kept insisting Picasso was a bum so she started to do that mural but I 'm sure it will wash off just eyebrow pencil .
BUD: It 's not Picasso I 'm calling about . It 's the key to my apartment you were supposed to leave it unde the mat .
DOBISCH: I did , did n't I ? I distinctly emember bending over and putting it there
BUD: Oh , I found a key there , all ight only it 's the wrong key .
DOBISCH: It is ? Well , how about that ? No wonder I could n't get into the executive washroom this morning .
BUD: And I could n't get into my apartment so at four a. m. I had to wake up the landlady and give her a whole song and dance about going out to mail a letter and the door slamming shut .
DOBISCH: That 's a shame . I 'll send the key ight down . And about you promotion I 'm sending that efficiency eport right up to Mr. Sheldrake , in Personnel . I would n't be surprised if you heard from him efore the day is over .
BUD: Thank you , Mr. Dobisch .
MESSENGER: From Mr. Dobisch .
BUD: Wait .
VANDERHOF: Dear Mr. MacIntosh Vanderhof , Public Relations . Oh , yes , Baxter . Just a minute . All right , Miss Finch type up what we got so far . Now what is it , Baxter ?
BUD: Look , Mr. Vanderhof I 've got you down here for tonight but I 'm going to be using the place myself so I 'll have to cancel .
VANDERHOF: Cancel ? But it 's her birthday I already ordered the cake
BUD: I hate to disappoint you I mean , many happy returns but not tonight
VANDERHOF: That 's not like you , Baxter . Just the other day , at the staff meeting , I was telling Mr. Sheldrake what a eliable man you were .
BUD: Thank you , Mr. Vanderhof . But I 'm sick I have this terrible cold and a fever and I got to go to bed right after work .
VANDERHOF: Buddy-boy , that 's the worst thing you can do . If you got a cold , you should go to a Turkish bath spend the night there sweat it out
BUD: Oh , no . I 'd get pneumonia and if I got pneumonia , I 'd be in bed fo a month and if I were in bed fo a month
VANDERHOF: Okay , you made your point . We 'll just have to do it next Wednesday that 's the only night of the week I can get away .
BUD: Wednesday Wednesday I got somebody penciled in let me see what I can do I 'll get ack to you .
ASSOCIATE: For you , Mel .
EIGHELBERGER: Eichelberger here oh , yes , Baxter What 's your problem ? Wednesday is out ? oh that throws a little monkey wrench into my agenda Thursday ? No , I 'm all tied up on Thursday let 's schedule that meeting for Friday .
BUD: Friday ? Let me see what I can do . I 'll get ack to you .
KIRKEBY: Premium-wise and billing-wise , we are eighteen percent ahead of last year , October-wise .
BUD: Instead of Friday could you possibly switch to Thursday ? You 'd e doing me a great favor
KIRKEBY: Well it 's all right with me , Bud . Let me check . I 'll get back to you .
SYLVIA: Consolidated Life I 'll connect you Consolidated Life
SWITCHBOARD GIRL: Sylvia it 's for you .
SYLVIA: Yes ? Oh , hello sure I got home all right you owe me forty-five cents .
KIRKEBY: Okay , okay . Look , Sylvia instead of Friday - could we make it Thursday night ?
SYLVIA: Thursday ? That 's The Untouchables with Bob Stack .
KIRKEBY: Bob WHO ? all right , so we 'll watch it at the apartment . Big deal . Baxter ? It 's okay for Thursday .
BUD: Thank you , Mr. Kirkeby . Mr. Eichelberger ? It 's okay fo Friday . Mr. Vanderhof ? It 's okay fo Wednesday .
MOFFETT: All right I 'll tell him . Hey , Baxter that was Personnel . Mr. Sheldrake 's secretary .
BUD: Sheldrake ?
MOFFETT: She 's been trying to reach you fo the last twenty minutes . They want you up stairs .
BUD: Oh !
MOFFETT: What gives , Baxter ? You getting promoted or getting fired ?
BUD: Care to make a small wager ?
MOFFETT: I 've been here twice as long as you have
BUD: Shall we say a dollar ?
MOFFETT: It 's a bet .
FRAN: Going up ?
BUD: Twenty-seven , please . And drive carefully . You 're carrying precious cargo I mean , manpower-wise . Fran shuts the doors .
FRAN: Twenty-seven .
BUD: You may not realize it , Miss Kubelik , but I 'm in the top ten efficiency-wise and this may be the day promotion-wise .
FRAN: You 're beginning to sound like Mr. Kirkeby already .
BUD: Why not ? Now that they 're kicking me upstairs
FRAN: Could n't happen to a nicer guy . You know , you 're the only one around here who ever takes his hat off in the elevator .
BUD: Really ?
FRAN: The characters you meet . Something happens to men in elevators . Must e the change of altitude the lood rushes to their head , o something boy , I could tell you stories
BUD: I 'd love to hear them . Maybe we could have lunch in the cafeteria sometime or some evening , afte work
FRAN: Twenty-seven .
BUD: I hope so . Would n't you know they 'd call me on a day like this with my cold and everything How do I look ?
FRAN: Fine . Wait .
BUD: Thank you . That 's the first thing I ever noticed about you when you were still on the local elevator you always wore a flower
FRAN: Good luck . And wipe your nose .
BUD: C. C. Baxter Ordinary Premium Accounting Mr. Sheldrake called me .
MISS OLSEN: I called you that is , I tried to call you for twenty minutes .
BUD: I 'm sorry , I
MISS OLSEN: Go on in .
SHELDRAKE: Baxter ?
BUD: Yes , sir .
SHELDRAKE: I was sort of wondering what you looked like . Sit down .
BUD: Yes , Mr. Sheldrake .
SHELDRAKE: Been hearing some very nice things about you here 's a report from Mr. Dobisch loyal , cooperative , esourceful
BUD: Mr. Dobisch said that ?
SHELDRAKE: And Mr. Kirkeby tells me that several nights a week you work late at the office without overtime .
BUD: Well , you know how it is things pile up .
SHELDRAKE: Mr. Vanderhof , in Public Relations , and Mr. Eichelberger , in Mortgage and Loan they 'd both like to have you transferred to thei departments .
BUD: That 's very flattering .
SHELDRAKE: Tell me , Baxter just what is it that makes you so popular ?
BUD: I do n't know .
SHELDRAKE: Think .
BUD: Would you mind repeating the question ?
SHELDRAKE: Look , Baxter , I 'm not stupid . I know everything that goes on in this building in every department on every floor every day of the year .
BUD: You do ?
SHELDRAKE: In 1957 , we had an employee here , name of Fowler . He was very popular , too . Turned out he was running a ookie joint right in the Actuarial Department tying up the switchboard , figuring the odds on our I.B.M . machines so the day before the Kentucky Derby , I called in the Vice Squad and we raided the thirteenth floor .
BUD: The Vice Squad ?
SHELDRAKE: That 's right , Baxter .
BUD: What what 's that got to do with me ? I 'm not running any bookie joint .
SHELDRAKE: What kind of joint are you running ?
BUD: Sir ?
SHELDRAKE: There 's a certain key floating around the office from Kirkeby to Vanderhof to Eichelberger to Dobisch it 's the key to a certain apartment and you know who that apartment belongs to ?
BUD: Who ?
SHELDRAKE: Loyal , cooperative , resourceful C. C. Baxter .
BUD: Oh .
SHELDRAKE: Are you going to deny it ?
BUD: No , sir . I 'm not going to deny it . But if you 'd just let me explain
SHELDRAKE: You better .
BUD: Well , about six months ago I was going to night school , taking this course in Advanced Accounting and one of the guys in ou department he lives in Jersey he was going to a banquet at the Biltmore his wife was meeting him in town , and he needed someplace to change into a tuxedo so I gave him the key and word must have gotten around because the next thing I knew , all sorts of guys were suddenly going to anquets and when you give the key to one guy , you ca n't say no to another and the whole thing got out of hand pardon me .
SHELDRAKE: Baxter , an insurance company is founded on public trust . Any employee who conducts himself in a manner unbecoming How many charter members are there in this little club of yours ?
BUD: Just those four out of a total of 31,259 so actually , we can be very proud of our personnel percentage-wise .
SHELDRAKE: That 's not the point . Four rotten apples in a barrel no matter how large the barrel you realize that if this ever leaked out
BUD: Oh , it wo n't . Believe me . And it 's not going to happen again . From now on , nobody is going to use my apartment
SHELDRAKE: Where is your apartment ?
BUD: West 67th Street . You have no idea what I 've been going through with the neighbors and the landlady and the liquor and the key
SHELDRAKE: How do you work it with the key ?
BUD: Well , usually I slip it to them in the office and they leave it unde the mat but never again I can promise you that
SHELDRAKE: Yes , Miss Olsen .
MISS OLSEN: Mrs. Sheldrake returning you call on two
SHELDRAKE: Yes , dear I called you earlier where were you ? Oh , you took Tommy to the dentist
BUD: Well , I do n't want to intrude and I thought since it 's all straightened out anyway
SHELDRAKE: I 'm not through with you yet .
BUD: Yes , sir .
SHELDRAKE: The reason I called is I wo n't e home for dinner tonight . The anch manager from Kansas City is in town I 'm taking him to the theatre Music Man , what else ? No , do n't wait up for me 'bye , darling . Tell me something , Baxter have you seen Music Man ?
BUD: Not yet . But I hear it 's one swell show .
SHELDRAKE: How would you like to go tonight ?
BUD: You mean you and me ? I thought you were taking the branch manage from Kansas City
SHELDRAKE: I made other plans . You can have oth tickets .
BUD: Well , that 's very kind of you only I 'm not feeling well you see , I have this cold and I thought I 'd go straight home .
SHELDRAKE: Baxter , you 're not reading me . I told you I have plans .
BUD: So do I I 'm going to take fou aspirins and get into bed so you etter give the tickets to somebody else
SHELDRAKE: I 'm not just giving those tickets , Baxter I want to swap them .
BUD: Swap them ? For what ?
SHELDRAKE: It also says here that you are alert , astute , and quite imaginative
BUD: Oh ? Oh !
SHELDRAKE: That 's good thinking , Baxter . Next month there 's going to be a shift in personnel around here and as far as I 'm concerned , you 're executive material .
BUD: I am ?
SHELDRAKE: Now put down the key and put down the address .
BUD: It 's on the second floor - my name is not on the door it just says
BUD: Oh terribly sorry . It 's that cold
SHELDRAKE: Relax , Baxter .
BUD: Thank you , sir .
SHELDRAKE: Now remember , Baxter this is going to be our little secret .
BUD: Yes , of course .
SHELDRAKE: You know how people talk .
BUD: Oh , you do n't have to worry
SHELDRAKE: Not that I have anything to hide .
BUD: Oh , no sir . Certainly not . Anyway , it 's none of my business fou apples , five apples what 's the difference percentage-wise ?
SHELDRAKE: Here you are , Baxter . Have a nice time .
BUD: You too , sir .
SYLVIA: So I figure , a man in his position , he 's going to take me to 21 and El Morocco instead , he takes me to Hamburg Heaven and some schnook 's apartment
FRAN: Good night .
BUD: Good night .
FRAN: You have ?
BUD: I almost did n't recognize you this is the first time I 've eve seen you in civilian clothes .
FRAN: How 'd you make out on the twenty- seventh floor ?
BUD: Great . Look have you seen The Music Man ?
FRAN: No .
BUD: Would you like to ?
FRAN: Sure .
BUD: I thought maybe we could have a ite to eat first and then
FRAN: You mean tonight ?
BUD: Yeah .
FRAN: I 'm sorry , but I ca n't tonight . I 'm meeting somebody .
BUD: Oh . You mean like a girl-friend ?
FRAN: No . Like a man .
BUD: I was n't trying to be personal it 's just that the fellows in the office were whether you wondering about you ever
FRAN: Just tell 'em now and then .
BUD: This date is it just a date or is it something serious ?
FRAN: It used to be serious at least I was but he was n't so the whole thing is more or less kaputt .
BUD: Well , in that case , could n't you ?
FRAN: I 'm afraid not . I promised to have a drink with him he 's been calling me all week
BUD: Oh , I understand .
FRAN: What time does the show go on ?
BUD: Eight-thirty .
FRAN: Well I could meet you at the theatre if that 's all right .
BUD: All right ? That 's wonderful ! It 's the Majestic 44th Street .
FRAN: Meet you in the lobby . Okay ?
BUD: You know , I felt so lousy this morning a hundred and one fever then my promotion came up now you and I eleventh row center and you said I should have stayed in bed .
FRAN: How is your cold ?
BUD: What cold ? And after the show , we could go out on the town I 've been taking from Arthur Murray .
FRAN: So I see .
BUD: They got a great little band at El Chico , in the Village it 's practically around the corner from where you live .
FRAN: Sounds good . How do you know where I live ?
BUD: Oh , I even know who you live with your sister and brother-in- law I know when you were born and where I know all sorts of things about you .
FRAN: How come ?
BUD: A couple of months ago I looked up your card in the group insurance file .
FRAN: Oh .
BUD: I know your height , your weight and your Social Security number you had mumps , you had measles , and you had your appendix out .
FRAN: Well , do n't tell the fellows in the office about the appendix . They may get the wrong idea how you found out . 'Bye .
BUD: Eight-thirty !
FRAN: Good evening , Mr. Sheldrake .
SHELDRAKE: Please , Fran not so loud .
FRAN: Still afraid somebody may see us together ?
SHELDRAKE: Let me take that .
FRAN: No , Jeff . I ca n't stay very long . Can I have a frozen daiquiri ?
SHELDRAKE: It 's on the way . I see you went ahead and cut you hair .
FRAN: That 's right .
SHELDRAKE: You know I liked it better long .
FRAN: Yes , I know . You want a lock to carry in your wallet ?
WAITER: Evening , lady . Nice see you again .
FRAN: Thank you .
SHELDRAKE: How long has it been a month ?
FRAN: Six weeks . But who 's counting ?
SHELDRAKE: I missed you , Fran .
FRAN: Like old times . Same booth , same song
SHELDRAKE: It 's been hell .
FRAN: same sauce sweet and sour .
SHELDRAKE: You do n't know what it 's like standing next to you in that elevator , day after day Good morning , Miss Kubelik Good night , Mr. Sheldrake I 'm still crazy about you , Fran .
FRAN: Let 's not start on that again , Jeff please . I 'm just beginning to get over it .
SHELDRAKE: I do n't believe you .
FRAN: Look , Jeff we had two wonderful months this summer and that was it . Happens all the time the wife and kids go away to the country , and the boss has a fling with the secretary or the manicurist or the elevator girl . Comes September , the picnic is over goodbye . The kids go back to school , the boss goes back to the wife , and the girl They do n't make these shrimp like they used to .
SHELDRAKE: I never said goodbye , Fran .
FRAN: For a while there , you try kidding yourself that you 're going with an unmarried man . Then one day he keeps looking at his watch , and asks you if there 's any lipstick showing , then rushes off to catch the seven-fourteen to White Plains . So you fix yourself a cup of instant coffee and you sit there y yourself and you think and it all begins to look so ugly
SHELDRAKE: How do you think I felt riding home on that seven-fourteen train ?
FRAN: Why do you keep calling me , Jeff ? What do you want from me ?
SHELDRAKE: I want you back , Fran .
FRAN: Sorry , Mr. Sheldrake I 'm full up . You 'll have to take the next elevator .
SHELDRAKE: You 're not giving me a chance , Fran . I asked you to meet me because I have something to tell you .
FRAN: Go ahead tell me .
SHELDRAKE: Not here , Fran . Ca n't we go some place else ?
FRAN: No . I have a date at eight-thirty .
SHELDRAKE: Important ?
FRAN: Not very but I 'm going to be there anyway .
WAITER: You ready order dinner now ?
FRAN: No . No dinner .
SHELDRAKE: Bring us two more drinks .
FRAN: Do I . That leaky little boat you ented and me in a black negligee and a life preserver
SHELDRAKE: Remember what we talked about ?
FRAN: We talked about a lot of things .
SHELDRAKE: I mean about my getting a divorce .
FRAN: We did n't talk about it you did .
SHELDRAKE: You did n't really believe me , did you ?
FRAN: They got it an a long playing ecord now - Music to String He Along By . My wife does n't understand me We have n't gotten along fo years You 're the best thing that ever happened to me
SHELDRAKE: That 's enough , Fran .
FRAN: Just trust me , baby we 'll work it out somehow
SHELDRAKE: You 're not being funny .
FRAN: I was n't trying .
SHELDRAKE: If you 'll just listen to me for a minute
FRAN: Okay . I 'm sorry .
SHELDRAKE: I saw my lawyer this morning I wanted his advice about the est way to handle it
FRAN: Handle what ?
SHELDRAKE: What do you think ?
FRAN: Let 's get something straight , Jeff I never asked you to leave your wife .
SHELDRAKE: Of course not . You had nothing to do with it .
FRAN: Are you sure that 's what you want ?
SHELDRAKE: I 'm sure . If you 'll just tell me that you still love me
FRAN: You know I do .
SHELDRAKE: Fran
FRAN: Jeff darling
SHELDRAKE: It is crowding up . Let 's get out of here .
FRAN: I have that date remember ?
SHELDRAKE: I love you remember ?
FRAN: Where are we going , Jeff ? Not back to that leaky boat
SHELDRAKE: I promise .
BUD: Would you mind ? C. C. Baxter that 's me .
KIRKEBY'S VOICE: Hi , Buddy-boy .
DOBISCH'S VOICE: Congratulations , and all that jazz .
BUD: Hi , fellas .
EICHELBERGER: Well , you made it , kid just like we promised .
VANDERHOF: Quite an office name on the door rug on the floor the whole schmear .
BUD: Yeah .
DOBISCH: Teamwork that 's what counts in an organization like this . All fo one and one for all know what I mean ?
BUD: I have a vague idea .
KIRKEBY: Baxter , we 're a little disappointed in you gratitude-wise .
BUD: Oh , I 'm very grateful .
EIGHELBERGER: Then why are you locking us out , all of a sudden ?
BUD: It 's been sort of rough these last few weeks what with my cold and like that
DOBISCH: We went to bat for you and now you wo n't play ball with us .
BUD: Well , after all , it 's my apartment it 's private property it 's not a public playground .
VANDERHOF: All right , so you got yourself a girl that 's okay with us but not every night of the week .
KIRKEBY: How selfish can you get ? Last week I had to borrow my nephew 's car and take Sylvia to a drive-in in Jersey . I 'm too old fo that sort of thing I mean , in a Volkswagen .
BUD: I sympathize with your problem and believe me , I 'm very sorry
DOBISCH: You 'll be a lot sorrier before we 're through with you .
BUD: You threatening me ?
DOBISCH: Listen , Baxter , we made you and we can break you .
BUD: Good morning , Mr. Sheldrake . The others swivel around .
SHELDRAKE: Morning , gentlemen . Everything satisfactory ? You like your office ?
BUD: Oh , yes , sir . Very much . And I want to thank you
SHELDRAKE: Do n't thank me thank you friends here they 're the ones who recommended you .
DOBISCH: We just dropped in to wish him the est .
KIRKEBY: So long , Baxter . We know you wo n't let us down .
BUD: So long , fellas . Drop in any time . The door is always open to my office . They leave . Sheldrake and Bud are alone .
SHELDRAKE: I like the way you handled that . Well , how does it feel to be an executive ?
BUD: Fine . And I want you to know I 'll work very hard to justify you confidence in me
SHELDRAKE: Sure you will . Say , Baxter , about the apartment - now that you got a raise , do n't you think we can afford a second key ?
BUD: Well I guess so .
SHELDRAKE: You know my secretary Miss Olsen
BUD: Oh , yes . Very attractive . Is she the lucky one ?
SHELDRAKE: No , you do n't understand . She 's a usybody always poking her nose into things and with that key passing back and forth why take chances ?
BUD: Yes , sir . You ca n't be too careful .
SHELDRAKE: To me ?
BUD: I mean the young lady whoeve she may be it was on the couch when I got home last night .
SHELDRAKE: Oh , yes . Thanks .
BUD: The mirror is broken . It was broken when I found it .
SHELDRAKE: So it was . She threw it at me .
BUD: Sir ?
SHELDRAKE: You know how it is sooner o later they all give you a bad time .
BUD: I know how it is .
SHELDRAKE: You see a girl a couple of times a week just for laughs and ight away she thinks you 're going to divorce your wife . I ask you is that fair ?
BUD: No , sir . That 's very unfair especially to your wife .
SHELDRAKE: Yeah . You know , Baxter , I envy you . Bachelor all the dames you want no headaches , no complications
BUD: Yes , sir . That 's the life , all right .
SHELDRAKE: Put me down for Thursday again .
BUD: Roger . And I 'll get that other key .
OPERATORS: Consolidated Life Merry Christmas I 'll connect you Consolidated Life Merry Christmas I 'm ringing
SYLVIA: Yeah ? YEAH ? Where ? You et
BUD: Miss Kubelik .
FRAN: Thank you . I thought you were avoiding me .
BUD: What gave you that idea ?
FRAN: In the last six weeks you 've only een in my elevator once and then you did n't take your hat off .
BUD: Well , as a matter of fact , I was ather hurt when you stood me up that night
FRAN: I do n't blame you . It was unforgivable .
BUD: I forgive you .
FRAN: You should n't .
BUD: You could n't help yourself . I mean , when you 're having a drink with one man , you ca n't just suddenly walk out on him because you have anothe date with another man . You did the only decent thing .
FRAN: Do n't be too sure . Just because I wear a uniform that does n't make me a Girl Scout .
BUD: Miss Kubelik , one does n't get to be a second administrative assistant around here unless he 's a pretty good judge of character and as far as I 'm concerned , you 're tops . I mean , decency-wise and otherwise-wise . Cheers .
FRAN: Cheers .
BUD: One more ?
FRAN: I should n't drink when I 'm driving .
BUD: You 're so right .
FRAN: Why not ? They seem friendly enough .
BUD: Do n't you believe it . Later on there will be human sacrifices white collar workers tossed into the computing machines , and punched full of those little square holes .
FRAN: How many of those drinks did you have ?
BUD: Three .
FRAN: I thought so .
BUD: You wait here . I think I hear the sound of running water .
MISS OLSEN: Hi . How 's the branch manager from Kansas City ?
FRAN: I beg your pardon ?
MISS OLSEN: I 'm Miss Olsen Mr. Sheldrake 's secretary .
FRAN: Yes , I know .
MISS OLSEN: So you do n't have to play innocent with me . He used to tell his wife that I was the branch manager from Seattle four years ago when we were having a little ring-a-ding- ding .
FRAN: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
MISS OLSEN: And before me there was Miss Rossi in Auditing and after me there was Miss Koch in Disability and just before you there was Miss What's-Her-Name , on the twenty- fifth floor
FRAN: Will you excuse me ?
MISS OLSEN: What for ? You have n't done anything it 's him what a salesman always the last booth in the Chinese restaurant and the same pitch about divorcing his wife and in the end you wind up with egg foo yong on your face .
BUD: Miss Kubelik . Fran turns away from Miss Olsen .
FRAN: Well thank you .
MISS OLSEN: Always happy to do something fo our girls in uniform .
BUD: You all right ? What 's the matter ?
FRAN: Nothing . There are just too many people here .
BUD: Why do n't we step into any office ? There 's something I want you advice about , anyway . I have my own office now , naturally . And you may be interested to know I 'm the second youngest executive in the company the only one younger is a grandson of the chairman of the board .
FRAN: No I like it .
BUD: Really ? You mean you would n't be ashamed to be seen with somebody in a hat like this ?
FRAN: Of course not .
BUD: Maybe if I wore it a little more to the side is that better ?
FRAN: Much better .
BUD: Well , as long as you would n't be ashamed to be seen with me how about the three of us going out this evening you and me and the owler stroll down Fifth Avenue sort of break it in
FRAN: This is a bad day for me .
BUD: I understand . Christmas family and all that
FRAN: I 'd better get back to my elevator . I do n't want to be fired .
BUD: Oh , you do n't have to worry about that . I have quite a bit of influence in Personnel . You know Mr. Sheldrake ?
FRAN: Why ?
BUD: He and I are like this . Sent me a Christmas card . See ?
SEASON'S GREETINGS: from the SHELDRAKES Emily , Jeff , Tommy , Jeff Jr. , and Figaro .
FRAN: Makes a cute picture .
BUD: I thought maybe I could put in a word for you with Mr. Sheldrake get you a little promotion how would you like to be an elevato starter ?
FRAN: I 'm afraid there are too many othe girls around here with seniority over me .
BUD: No problem . Why do n't we discuss it sometime over the holidays I could call you and pick you up and we 'll have the big unveiling you sure this is the right way to wear it ?
FRAN: I think so .
BUD: You do n't think it 's tilted a little too much
FRAN: Here .
BUD: After all , this is a conservative firm I do n't want people to think I 'm an entertainer
FRAN: What is it ?
BUD: The mirror it 's broken .
FRAN: I know . I like it this way makes me look the way I feel .
BUD: Oh . Yes ? Just a minute . If you do n't mind this is sort of personal
FRAN: All right . Have a nice Christmas .
BUD: Yes , Mr. Sheldrake no , I did n't forget the tree is up and the Tom and Jerry mix is in the efrigerator yes , sir same to you .
KIRKEBY: Where you going , Buddy-boy ? The party 's just starting . Listen , kid give me a break , will you how about tomorrow afternoon ? I ca n't take her to that drive-in again the car does n't even have a heater four o'clock okay ?
SANTA CLAUS: Hey , Charlie give me a shot of ourbon and step on it my sleigh is double parked .
MARGIE: You buy me a drink , I 'll buy you some music . Rum Collins .
BUD: Rum Collins . And another one of these little mothers .
MARGIE: You like Castro ? I mean how do you feel about Castro ?
BUD: What is Castro ?
MARGIE: You know , that big-shot down in Cuba with the crazy beard .
BUD: What about him ?
MARGIE: Because as far as I 'm concerned , he 's a no good fink . Two weeks ago I wrote him a letter never even answered me .
BUD: That so .
MARGIE: All I wanted him to do was let Mickey out for Christmas .
BUD: Who is Mickey ?
MARGIE: My husband . He 's in Havana in jail .
BUD: Oh . Mixed up in that revolution ?
MARGIE: Mickey ? He would n't do nothing like that . He 's a jockey . They caught him doping a horse .
BUD: Well , you ca n't win 'em all .
MARGIE: 'T was the night before Christmas And all through the house Not a creature was stirring Nothing No action Dullsville ! You married ?
BUD: No .
MARGIE: Family ?
BUD: No .
MARGIE: A night like this , it sort of spooks you to walk into an empty apartment .
BUD: I said I had no family I did n't say I had an empty apartment . They both drink .
SHELDRAKE: Come on , Fran do n't be like that . You just going to sit there and keep bawling ? You wo n't talk to me , you wo n't tell me what 's wrong Look , I know you think I 'm stalling you . But when you 've been married to a woman for twelve years , you do n't just sit down at the breakfast table and say `` Pass the sugar and I want a divorce . '' It 's not that easy . Anyway , this is the wrong time . The kids are home from school my in- laws are visiting for the holidays I ca n't bring it up now . This is n't like you , Fran you were always such a good sport such fun to be with
FRAN: Yeah that 's me . The Happy Idiot a million laughs .
SHELDRAKE: Well , that 's more like it . At least you 're speaking to me .
FRAN: Funny thing happened to me at the office party today I ran into your secretary Miss Olsen . You know ring-a-ding-ding ? I laughed so much I like to died .
SHELDRAKE: Is that what 's been bothering you Miss Olsen ? That 's ancient history .
FRAN: I was never very good at history . Let me see there was Miss Olsen , and then there was Miss Rossi no , she came before it was Miss Koch who came after Miss Olsen
SHELDRAKE: Now , Fran
FRAN: And just think right now there 's some lucky girl in the building who 's going to come after me
SHELDRAKE: Okay , okay , Fran . I deserve that . But just ask yourself why does a man run around with a lot of girls ? Because he 's unhappy at home ecause he 's lonely , that 's why all that was before you , Fran I 've stopped running .
FRAN: How could I be so stupid ? You 'd think I would have learned by now when you 're in love with a married man , you should n't wea mascara .
SHELDRAKE: It 's Christmas Eve , Fran let 's not fight .
FRAN: Merry Christmas . She hands him a flat , wrapped package .
SHELDRAKE: What is it ?
FRAN: Yeah , we better .
SHELDRAKE: I have a present for you . I did n't quite know what to get you anyway it 's a little awkward fo me , shopping so here 's a hundred dollars go out and buy yourself something .
FRAN: Okay . I just thought as long as it was paid for
SHELDRAKE: Do n't ever talk like that , Fran ! Do n't make yourself out to be cheap .
FRAN: A hundred dollars ? I would n't call that cheap . And you must be paying somebody something for the use of the apartment
SHELDRAKE: Stop that , Fran .
FRAN: You 'll miss your train , Jeff .
SHELDRAKE: Coming ?
FRAN: You run along I want to fix my face .
SHELDRAKE: Do n't forget to kill the lights . See you Monday .
FRAN: Sure . Monday and Thursday and Monday again and Thursday again
SHELDRAKE: It wo n't always be like this . I love you , Fran .
FRAN: Careful lipstick .
BARTENDER: Drink up , Pop . It 's closing time .
SANTA CLAUS: But it 's early , Charlie .
BARTENDER: Do n't you know what night this is ?
SANTA CLAUS: I know , Charlie . I know . I work fo the outfit .
BARTENDER: Hey , knock it off , will you ? Go home .
MARGIE: Where do we go my place or yours ?
BUD: Might as well go to mine everybody else does .
MARGIE: Poor Mickey when I think of him all by himself in that jail in Havana want to see his picture ?
BUD: Not particularly .
MARGIE: He 's so cute five-foot-two ninety-nine poundslike a little chihuahua .
BUD: No .
MARGIE: You got a girl-friend ?
BUD: She may be a girl but she 's no friend of mine .
MARGIE: Still stuck on her , huh .
BUD: Stuck on her ! Obviously , you do n't know me very well .
MARGIE: I do n't know you at all .
BUD: Permit me C.C . Baxter junio executive , Arthur Murray graduate , lover .
MARGIE: I 'm Mrs. MacDougall Margie to you .
BUD: This way , Mrs. MacDougall . He ushers her in .
MARGIE: Say , this is Snugsville .
BUD: Mrs. MacDougall , I think it is only fair to warn you that you are now alone with a notorious sexpot .
MARGIE: No kidding .
BUD: Ask anybody around here . As a matter of fact , when it 's time fo me to go and I may go just like that I have promised my body to the Columbia Medical Center .
MARGIE: Gee . Sort of gives you goose-bumps just to think about it .
BUD: Well , they have n't got me yet , baby . Dig up some ice from the kitchen and let 's not waste any time preliminary-wise .
MARGIE: I 'm with you , lover .
BUD: All right , Miss Kubelik get up . It 's past checking-out time , and the hotel management would appreciate it if you would get the hell out of here . Look , Miss Kubelik , I used to like you I used to like you a lot ut it 's all over between us so eat it O-U-T out ! Come on wake up !
MARGIE: I broke a nail trying to get the ice-tray out . You ought to buy yourself a new refrigerator .
BUD: Dr. Dreyfuss ! Hey , Doc !
DR. DREYFUSS: Let me get my bag . He disappears from the doorway .
BUD: Hurry up , Doc . Bud turns and runs back into his apartment .
MARGIE: Hey over here , lover .
BUD: Good night .
MARGIE: Good night ?
BUD: The party 's over .
MARGIE: What 's the matter ? Did I do something wrong ?
BUD: It 's an emergency see you some other time .
MARGIE: Say , what 's going on here , anyway ?
BUD: Nothing . Just clear out , will you ?
MARGIE: My shoes .
BUD: Here find yourself a phone booth and call your husband in Havana .
MARGIE: You bet I will . And when I tell him how you treated me , he 'll push you face in . You fink !
BUD: She going to be all right , Doc ?
DR. DREYFUSS: How many pills were in that bottle ?
BUD: It was half-full about a dozen or so . You going to have to take her to the hospital ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Help me , will you ?
BUD: What are you going to do , Doc ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Get that stuff out of her stomach if it is n't too late . You bette put some coffee on and pray .
BUD: I do n't know I mean I was n't here you see we had some words earlier nothing serious , eally what you might call a lovers ' quarrel
DR. DREYFUSS: So you went right out and picked yourself up another dame .
BUD: Something like that .
DR. DREYFUSS: You know , Baxter , you 're a real cutie-pie yes , you are .
BUD: Miss Kubelik Fran .
DR. DREYFUSS: Fran , I 'm a doctor . I 'm here ecause you took too many sleeping pills . Do you understand what I 'm saying ? Fran , I 'm Dr. Dreyfuss I 'm here to help you . You took all those sleeping pills remember ?
FRAN: Sleeping pills .
DR. DREYFUSS: That 's right , Fran . And I 'm a doctor .
FRAN: Doctor .
DR. DREYFUSS: Dr. Dreyfuss .
FRAN: Dreyfuss .
DR. DREYFUSS: Get more coffee . Bud picks up the mug , leaves .
FRAN: Dr. Dreyfuss .
DR. DREYFUSS: And what happened to you ?
FRAN: I took sleeping pills .
DR. DREYFUSS: Do you know where you are , Fran ?
FRAN: No .
DR. DREYFUSS: Yes , you do . Now concentrate .
FRAN: I do n't know . Bud is coming back with the coffee .
DR. DREYFUSS: Do you know who this is ? Look at him .
FRAN: Mr. Baxter nineteenth floor .
BUD: Hello , Miss Kubelik .
DR. DREYFUSS: Mister Miss such politeness !
BUD: Well we work in the same uilding and we try to keep it quiet
FRAN: What are you doing here ?
BUD: Do n't you remember ? We were at the office party together
FRAN: Oh , yes office party Miss Olsen
BUD: That 's right . I told you we had a fight that 's what it was about Miss Olsen you know that other girl you saw
FRAN: I do n't understand
BUD: It 's not important , Fran the main thing is that I got here in time and you 're going to be all ight is n't she , Doc ?
FRAN: I 'm so tired
DR. DREYFUSS: Here drink this . He forces her to swallow some coffee .
FRAN: Please just let me sleep .
DR. DREYFUSS: You ca n't sleep . Come on , Fran open your eyes . Let 's get her walking . We 've got to keep her awake for the next couple of hours .
BUD: Just as long as she 's okay .
DR. DREYFUSS: These cases are harder on the doctor than on the patient . I ought to charge you by the mile .
BUD: Sure .
DR. DREYFUSS: How do you spell her last name ?
BUD: Kubelik with two k 's .
DR. DREYFUSS: What 's her address ? Where does she live ?
BUD: Why do you want to know , Doc ? You do n't have to report this , do you ?
DR. DREYFUSS: It 's regulations .
BUD: She did n't mean it , Doc it was an accident she had a little too much to drink and she did n't know what she was doing there was no suicide note or anything elieve me , Doc , I 'm not thinking about myself
DR. DREYFUSS: Are n't you ?
BUD: It 's just that she 's got a family and there 's the people in the office look , Doc , ca n't you forget you 're a doctor let 's just say you 're here as a neighbor
DR. DREYFUSS: Well , as a doctor , I guess I ca n't prove it was n't an accident . But as your neighbor , I 'd like to kick your keester clear around the lock . Mind if I cool this off ?
BUD: Help yourself .
DR. DREYFUSS: I do n't know what you did to that girl in there and do n't tell me but it was bound to happen , the way you carry on . Live now , pay later . Diner 's Club ! Why do n't you grow up , Baxter ? Be a mensch ! You know what that means ?
BUD: I 'm not sure .
DR. DREYFUSS: A mansch a human being ! So you got off easy this time so you were lucky
BUD: Yeah , was n't I ?
DR. DREYFUSS: But you 're not out of the woods yet , Baxter because most of them try it again ! You know where I am if you need me .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Mr. Baxter . Open up already !
BUD: Oh Mrs. Lieberman .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: So who did you think it was Kris Kringle ? What was going on here last night ?
BUD: Last night ?
MRS. LIEBERMAN: All that marching tramp , tramp , tramp you were having army maneuvers maybe ?
BUD: I 'm sorry , Mrs. Lieberman and I 'll never invite those people again .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: What you get from renting to achelors . All night I did n't sleep ten minutes and I 'm sure you woke up Dr. Dreyfuss .
BUD: Do n't worry about Dr. Dreyfuss I happen to know he was out on a case .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: I 'm warning you , Mr. Baxter this is a respectable house , not a honky-tonky . Come on , Oscar .
BUD: Operator , I want White Plains , New York Mr. J. D. Sheldrake make it person to person .
SHELDRAKE: 7-6-5-4-3-2-1 let her rip !
TOMMY: Hey , Dad why do n't we put a fly in the nose cone and see if we can ing it back alive ?
SHELDRAKE: It 's a thought .
TOMMY: Maybe we should send up two flies and see if they 'll propagate in orbit .
SHELDRAKE: See if they 'll what ?
TOMMY: Propagate you know , multiply aby flies ?
SHELDRAKE: Oh oh !
TOMMY: Come on help me round up some flies .
SHELDRAKE: Hello ? yes what 's on you mind , Baxter ?
BUD: I hate to disturb you , but something came up it 's rather important and I think it would be a good idea if you could see me at the apartment as soon as possible .
SHELDRAKE: You 're not making sense , Baxter . What 's this all about ?
BUD: I did n't want to tell you over the phone but that certain party you know who I mean I found her here last night she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills .
SHELDRAKE: What ? From the stairway beyond him comes
BUD: Well , it was touch and go there fo a while but she 's sleeping it off now .
SHELDRAKE: That 's impossible . You 'll have to handle this situation yourself as a matter of fact , I 'm counting on you
BUD: Yes , sir I understand . She left a note you want me to open it and read it to you ? Well , it was just a suggestion no , you do n't have to worry about that , Mr. Sheldrake I kept you name out of it so there 'll be no trouble , police-wise or newspaper- wise
FRAN: I 'm sorry .
BUD: Miss Kubelik you should n't be out of bed .
FRAN: I did n't know I had no idea this was your apartment
BUD: Let me help you . He leads her back into the bedroom .
FRAN: I 'm so ashamed . Why did n't you just let me die ?
BUD: What kind of talk is that ? So you got a little over- emotional but you 're fine now .
FRAN: My head it feels like a big wad of chewing gum . What time is it ?
BUD: Two o'clock .
FRAN: Where 's my dress ? I have to go home . Her knees buckle . Bud catches her .
BUD: You 're in no condition to go anywhere except back to bed .
FRAN: You do n't want me here
BUD: Sure I do . It 's always nice to have company for Christmas .
FRAN: I just want to go brush my teeth
BUD: Oh of course . I think there 's a new toothbrush somewhere .
FRAN: No I do n't want anything .
BUD: I 'll fix you some coffee .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Eggs he asks me for . Oranges . What you need is a good horse-whipping .
BUD: Ma'am ?
MRS. DREYFUSS: From me the doctor has no secrets . Poor girl how could you do a thing like that ?
BUD: I did n't really do anything honest I mean , you take a girl out a couple of times a week just for laughs and right away she thinks you 're serious marriage-wise .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Big shot ! For you , I would n't lift a finger but for her , I 'll fix a little something to eat .
BUD: Who are you calling , Miss Kubelik ?
FRAN: My sister she 'll want to know what happened to me .
BUD: Wait a minute let 's talk this over first . Just what are you going to tell her ?
FRAN: Well , I have n't figured it out , exactly .
BUD: You better figure it out exactly . Suppose she asks you why you did n't come home last night ?
FRAN: I 'll tell her I spent the night with a friend .
BUD: Who ?
FRAN: Someone from the office .
BUD: And where are you now ?
FRAN: In his apartment .
BUD: His apartment ?
FRAN: I mean her apartment .
BUD: What 's your friend 's name ?
FRAN: Baxter .
BUD: What 's her first name ?
FRAN: Miss .
BUD: When are you coming home ?
FRAN: As soon as I can walk .
BUD: Something wrong with your legs ?
FRAN: No it 's my stomach .
BUD: Your stomach ?
FRAN: They had to pump it out .
BUD: Miss Kubelik , I do n't think you ought to call anybody not till that chewing gum is out of you head .
FRAN: But they 'll be worried about me my brother-in-law may be calling the police
BUD: That 's why we have to be careful we do n't want to involve anybody after all , Mr. Sheldrake is a married man
FRAN: Thanks for reminding me .
BUD: I did n't mean it that way I was just talking to him on the phone he 's very concerned about you .
FRAN: He does n't give a damn about me .
BUD: Oh , you 're wrong . He told me
FRAN: He 's a liar . But that 's not the worst part of it the worst part is I still love him . The doorbell rings .
BUD: Must be Mrs. Dreyfuss remember the doctor from last night that 's his wife .
MRS. DREYFUSS: So where is the victim ? Max the Knife !
FRAN: I do n't know kind of dizzy .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Here . The best thing for dizzy is a little noodle soup with chicken white meat and a glass tea . She sets the tray down on Fran 's lap .
FRAN: Thank you . I 'm really not hungry .
MRS. DREYFUSS: Go ahead ! Eat ! Enjoy ! She hands her the soup spoon , turns to Bud .
BUD: Well , I have some paper towels
MRS. DREYFUSS: Beatnik ! Go to my kitchen third drawer , under the good silver , there is napkins .
BUD: Yes , Mrs. Dreyfuss .
MRS. DREYFUSS: So what are you waiting for a singing commercial ?
FRAN: I ca n't eat .
MRS. DREYFUSS: You must eat and you must get healthy and you must forget him . Such a fine boy he seemed when he first moved in here clean and cut a regular Ivy Leaguer . Turns out he is King Farouk . Mit the drinking mit the cha cha mit the no napkins . A girl like you , for the rest of your life you want to cry in your noodle soup ? Who needs it ! You listen to me , you find yourself a nice , substantial man a widower maybe and settle down instead of nashing all those sleeping pills fo what , for whom ? for some Good Time Charlie ? Sssh !
BUD: One napkin , coming up . I wish we had some champagne to wrap it around .
MRS. DREYFUSS: What did I tell you ?
BUD: Look , Mrs. Dreyfuss , you do n't have to wait around . I 'll wash the dishes and
MRS. DREYFUSS: You wash 'em , you break 'em . I 'll come back for them later . If he makes trouble , give me a yell . She exits .
FRAN: She does n't seem to like you very much .
BUD: Oh , I do n't mind . As a matter of fact , I 'm sort of flattered that anybody should think a girl like you would do a thing like this over a guy like me .
FRAN: Oh . Did you find something here an envelope ?
BUD: Yes , I 've got it . Do n't you think we 'd better destroy it ? So it wo n't fall into the wrong hands ?
FRAN: Open it .
BUD: There 's nothing here but a hundred dollar bill .
FRAN: That 's right . Will you see that Mr. Sheldrake gets it ?
BUD: Sure . He puts the money in his pocket .
FRAN: Here take this , will you ? Bud relieves her of the tray , sets it down .
BUD: You want me to move the television set in here ? You play gin rummy ?
FRAN: I 'm not very good at it .
BUD: I am . Let me get the cards .
FRAN: You do n't have to entertain me .
BUD: Nothing I 'd like better you know togetherness . Guess what I did last Christmas . Had an early dinner at the automat , then went to the zoo , then I came home and cleaned up after Mr. Eichelberger he had a little eggnog party here . I 'm way ahead this year .
FRAN: I think I 'm going to give it all up .
BUD: Give what up ?
FRAN: Why do people have to love people , anyway ?
BUD: Yeah I know what you mean . Queen .
FRAN: I do n't want it .
BUD: Pick a card . She does , and they start playing .
FRAN: What do you call it when somebody keeps getting smashed up in automobile accidents ?
BUD: A bad insurance risk ?
FRAN: That 's me with men . I 've been jinxed from the word go first time I was ever kissed was in a cemetery .
BUD: A cemetery ?
FRAN: I was fifteen we used to go there to smoke . His name was George he threw me over for a drum majorette .
BUD: Gin .
FRAN: I just have this talent for falling in love with the wrong guy in the wrong place at the wrong time .
BUD: How many guys were there ?
FRAN: Three . The last one was manager of a finance company , back home in Pittsburgh they found a little shortage in his accounts , but he asked me to wait for him he 'll e out in 1965 .
BUD: Cut .
FRAN: So I came to New York and moved in with my sister and her husband he drives a cab . They sent me to secretarial school , and I applied for a job with Consolidated - but I flunked the typing test
BUD: Too slow ?
FRAN: Oh . I can type up a storm , but I ca n't spell . So they gave me a pai of white gloves and stuck me in an elevator that 's how I met Jeff Oh , God , I 'm so fouled up . What am I going to do now ?
BUD: You better win a hand you 're on a blitz .
FRAN: Was he really upset when you told him ?
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake ? Oh , yes . Very .
FRAN: Maybe he does love me only he does n't have the nerve to tell his wife .
BUD: I 'm sure that 's the explanation .
FRAN: You really think so ?
BUD: No doubt about it .
FRAN: Can I have that pad and the pencil ?
BUD: What for ?
FRAN: I 'm going to write a letter to Mrs. Sheldrake .
BUD: You are ?
FRAN: As one woman to another I 'm sure she 'll understand
BUD: Miss Kubelik , I do n't think that 's such a good idea .
FRAN: Why not ?
BUD: Well , for one thing , you ca n't spell . And secondly if you did something like that you 'd hate yourself .
FRAN: I do n't like myself very much anyway .
BUD: Pick up your cards and let 's go .
FRAN: Do I have to ?
BUD: You bet . I got a terrific hand .
FRAN: Sure .
BUD: Gin .
KIRKEBY: Hi , Baxter .
BUD: What do you want ?
KIRKEBY: What do I ? Just a minute .
BUD: You ca n't come in .
KIRKEBY: What 's the matter with you , Buddy- oy ? I made a reservation for fou o'clock , remember ?
BUD: Look , you ca n't stay here . Just take your champagne and go .
KIRKEBY: Baxter , I do n't want to pull rank on you but I told the lady it was all set you want to make a liar out of me ?
BUD: Are you going to leave , Mr. Kirkeby , or do I have to throw you out ?
KIRKEBY: Buddy-boy , why did n't you say so ? You got yourself a little playmate , huh ?
BUD: Now will you get out ?
SYLVIA: Hey , come on , what are we waiting for ? Open up , will you ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Mildred ! He shuts the door behind him .
SYLVIA: What 's holding things up ?
KIRKEBY: Say , why do n't we have ourselves a party the four of us ?
BUD: No !
KIRKEBY: Well , I do n't blame you . So you hit the jackpot , eh kid I mean , Kubelik-wise ? Do n't worry . I wo n't say a word to anybody .
SYLVIA: What gives ?
KIRKEBY: A little mixup in signals . Let 's go .
SYLVIA: Go where ?
KIRKEBY: What 's your mother doing this afternoon ?
SYLVIA: She 's home stuffing a turkey .
KIRKEBY: Why do n't we send her to a movie like Ben-Hur ?
SYLVIA: That 's fine . But what are we going to do about grandma and Uncle Herman and Aunt Sophie and my two nieces
FRAN: Who was that ?
BUD: Just somebody delivering a bottle of champagne . Like some ?
FRAN: Would you mind opening the window ?
BUD: Now do n't go getting any ideas , Miss Kubelik .
FRAN: I just want some fresh air .
BUD: It 's only one story down the est you can do is break a leg .
FRAN: So they 'll shoot me like a horse .
BUD: Please , Miss Kubelik , you got to promise me you wo n't do anything foolish .
FRAN: Who 'd care ?
BUD: I would .
FRAN: Why ca n't I ever fall in love with somebody nice like you ?
BUD: Yeah . Well that 's the way it crumbles , cookie-wise . Go to sleep .
SECRETARIES: Good morning , Mr. Sheldrake .
SHELDRAKE: Miss Olsen , will you come into my office , please ?
MISS OLSEN: Did you have a nice Christmas ?
SHELDRAKE: Lovely . You were a big help .
MISS OLSEN: Me ?
SHELDRAKE: Thank you for giving that little pep talk to Miss Kubelik at the office party .
MISS OLSEN: I 'm sorry , Jeff . You know I could never hold my liquor
SHELDRAKE: But I thought you could hold you tongue .
MISS OLSEN: It wo n't happen again .
SHELDRAKE: You bet it wo n't . I 'll arrange fo you to get a month 's severance pay That 's right , Miss Olsen . I 'm letting you go .
MISS OLSEN: You let me go four years ago , Jeff . Only you were cruel enough to make me sit out there and watch the new models pass by .
SHELDRAKE: I 'd appreciate it if you 'd be out of here as soon as you can .
MISS OLSEN: Yes , Mr. Sheldrake .
SHELDRAKE: This is Mr. Sheldrake . I 'd like Mr. Baxter 's home telephone number that 's C.C . Baxter , in Ordinary Premium Accounting
BUD: Yes , she 's in the shower she 's coming along fine , considering .
SHELDRAKE: Good . Is there anything you need money ?
BUD: No , thank you , Mr. Sheldrake . As a matter of fact , I 've got some money for you a hundred dollars
SHELDRAKE: Oh . Well , if there 's anything I can do for you
BUD: For me ? I do n't think so . But I was hoping maybe you could do something for her
SHELDRAKE: Like what ? Put yourself in my place , Baxter how can I help her my hands are tied
BUD: Well , at least you can talk to her let me put her on and please be gentle
FRAN: For me ?
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake .
FRAN: I do n't want to talk to him .
BUD: I think you should . I have to run down to the grocery anyway all that 's left around here is one frozen pizza I 'll be right back okay ?
FRAN: Hello , Jeff . Yes , I 'm all right .
SHELDRAKE: Fran , why did you do it ? It 's so childish and it never solves anything I ought to be very angry with you , scaring me like that but let 's forget the whole thing pretend it neve happened what do you say , Fran ? Fran
FRAN: Of course I 'm not here because the whole thing never happened I never took those pills I neve loved you we never even met is n't that the way you want it ?
SHELDRAKE: There you go again you know I did n't mean it that way , Fran . Just get well do what the nurse tells you I mean Baxter and I 'll see you as soon as I can . Bye , Fran .
MISS OLSEN: Hello , Mrs. Sheldrake ? This is Miss Olsen fine , thank you Mrs. Sheldrake , I was wondering if we could have lunch together ? well , I do n't know how important it is , ut I think you might find it educational it concerns you husband all right , one o'clock , at Longchamp 's , Madison and 59th .
MRS. LIEBERMAN: Oh , Mr. Baxter I 'm glad you 're here I was just going to get the passkey .
BUD: What for ?
MRS. LIEBERMAN: I thought I smelled gas coming from your apartment .
BUD: Gas ?
FRAN: Sure . What 's that funny smell ?
BUD: Gas . Did n't you turn it on ?
FRAN: Yes . I was boiling some water to get the coffee stains out of my dress .
BUD: You turned it on but you did n't light it .
FRAN: Are you supposed to ?
BUD: In this house , you 're supposed to .
FRAN: Oh .
BUD: What are you doing with that ?
FRAN: I was washing my stockings , so I decided I might as well do you socks .
BUD: Thank you .
FRAN: It 's very curious I could only find three and a half pair .
BUD: Well , things are a little disorganized around here .
FRAN: I 'd say . What 's a tennis racquet doing in the kitchen ?
BUD: Tennis racquet ? Oh , I remember I was cooking myself an Italian dinner . I used it to strain the spaghetti .
FRAN: Why not ?
BUD: As a matter of fact , I 'm a pretty good cook but I 'm a lousy housekeeper .
FRAN: Yes , you are , When I was straightening up the couch , you know what I found ? Six hairpins , a lipstick , a pair of false eyelashes , and a swizzle stick from the Stork Club .
BUD: It 's just that I 'm the kind of guy who ca n't say no I do n't mean to girls I mean
FRAN: You mean to someone like Mr. Sheldrake .
BUD: I guess so .
FRAN: I know so . He 's a taker .
BUD: A what ?
FRAN: Some people take , some people get took and they know they 're getting took and there 's nothing they can do about it .
BUD: I would n't say that What would you like to have fo diner ? There 's onion soup and canned asparagus
FRAN: I really ought to be getting home . My family will be flipping by now .
BUD: You ca n't leave yet . The docto says it takes forty-eight hours to get the stuff out of your system .
FRAN: I wonder how long it takes to get someone you 're stuck on out of you system ? If they 'd only invent some kind of a pump for that She sits on the arm of a chair .
BUD: I know how you feel , Miss Kubelik . You think it 's the end of the world but it 's not , really . I went through exactly the same thing myself .
FRAN: You did ?
BUD: Well , maybe not exactly I tried to do it with a gun .
FRAN: Over a girl ?
BUD: Worse than that she was the wife of my best friend and I was mad for her . But I knew it was hopeless so I decided to end it all . I went to a pawnshop and ought a forty-five automatic and drove up to Eden Park do you know Cincinnati ?
FRAN: No , I do n't .
BUD: Anyway , I parked the car and loaded the gun well , you read in the papers all the time that people shoot themselves , but believe me , it 's not that easy I mean , how do you do it ? here , or here , o here you know where I finally shot myself ?
FRAN: Where ?
BUD: Here .
FRAN: In the knee ?
BUD: Uh-huh . While I was sitting there , trying to make my mind up , a cop stuck his head in the car , because I was illegally parked so I started to hide the gun under the seat and it went off pow !
FRAN: That 's terrible .
BUD: Yeah . Took me a year before I could end my knee but I got over the girl in three weeks . She still lives in Cincinnati , has four kids , gained twenty pounds she sends me a fruit cake every Christmas .
FRAN: Are you just making that up to make me feel better ?
BUD: Of course not . Here 's the fruit cake . And you want to see my knee ?
FRAN: No , thanks . The fellows in the office may get the wrong idea how I found out .
BUD: So let 'em . Look , I 'm going to cook dinner for us . We 'll have the fruit cake for dessert . You just sit there and rest . You 've done enough for one day .
FRAN: Yes , nurse . Bud starts happily into the kitchen .
ELEVATOR STARTER: Can I help you ?
MATUSCHKA: I 'm looking for one of the elevato girls Miss Kubelik .
ELEVATOR STARTER: So am I . She did n't report this morning .
MATUSCHKA: She did n't . Where can I get some information who 's in charge here ?
ELEVATOR STARTER: That comes under General Office Administration . See Mr. Dobisch , twenty-first floor .
MATUSCHKA: Thanks .
KIRKEBY: so yesterday afternoon I take Sylvia up to the apartment , and guess who he 's got stashed away in the bedroom ?
DOBISCH: Who ?
KIRKEBY: Kubelik .
DOBISCH: No kidding . Buddy-boy and Kubelik having themselves a little toot !
KIRKEBY: Toot ? It 's more like a lost weekend . Neither of them showed up for work today .
DOBISCH: A.W.O.L . ?
KIRKEBY: What gripes me is the two of them were guzzling my champagne while Sylvia and I wound up at the Guggenheim Museum . The glass door opens and Matuschka comes in .
MATUSCHKA: Mr. Dobisch ?
DOBISCH: Yeah .
MATUSCHKA: My name is Karl Matuschka my sister-in-law , she runs one of the elevators here Fran Kubelik .
KIRKEBY: Miss Kubelik ?
MATUSCHKA: You know her ?
DOBISCH: Of course . There may be a lot of employees here but we 're one big happy family .
MATUSCHKA: Well , she lives with us and my wife , she 's getting a little nervous on account of Fran has n't been home for two days .
KIRKEBY: That so .
MATUSCHKA: Anyway , we was wondering if somebody in the office would know what happened to her .
DOBISCH: I see . What do you think , Al ? Can we help the man ?
KIRKEBY: Why not ? We do n't owe Buddy-boy anything .
DOBISCH: Yeah . What 's Buddy-boy done for us lately ?
MATUSCHKA: Who is Buddy-boy ?
FRAN: Are we dressing for dinner ?
BUD: No just come as you are .
FRAN: Say , you 're pretty good with that acquet .
BUD: You ought to see my backhand . And wait till I serve the meatballs .
FRAN: Shall I light the candles ?
BUD: It 's a must gracious-living-wise .
FRAN: I see you bought some napkins .
BUD: Might as well go all the way .
FRAN: You usually eat alone ?
BUD: Oh , no . Sometimes I have dinne with Ed Sullivan , sometimes with Dinah Shore or Perry Como the other night I had dinner with Mae West of course , she was much younger then . Cheers .
FRAN: Cheers . They drink .
BUD: You know what we 're going to do after dinner ?
FRAN: The dishes ?
BUD: I mean , after that ?
FRAN: What ?
BUD: You do n't have to if you do n't want to
FRAN: I do n't ?
BUD: We 're going to finish that gin game .
FRAN: Oh .
BUD: So I want you to keep a clear head .
MATUSCHKA: Baxter ?
BUD: Yes ?
MATUSCHKA: What 's with you , Fran did you forget where you live ?
FRAN: This is my brother-in-law , Karl Matuschka .
BUD: How do you do , Mr. Matuschka ?
MATUSCHKA: Okay , get your clothes on . I got the cab downstairs .
BUD: Now , wait a minute . I know what you 're thinking but it 's not as ad as it looks
MATUSCHKA: It 's none of my business what you do , Fran you 're over twenty- one but your sister happens to think you 're a lady .
BUD: All we were going to do is eat and wash the dishes
MATUSCHKA: Look , Buddy-boy if there was n't a lady present , I 'd clobber you .
FRAN: All right , Karl I 'll get dressed .
BUD: Care for a martini ? Champagne ? How about a little spaghetti with meat sauce ? Made it myself . Your sister-in-law sure is terrific Must be murder driving a cab in New York I mean , with all that cross-town traffic
DR. DREYFUSS: Hi , Baxter .
BUD: Oh , I 'm fine , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: Not you Miss Kubelik .
MATUSCHKA: What 's the matter with Miss Kubelik ?
BUD: Oh , this is Mr. Matuschka he 's Miss Kubelik 's he 's got a ca downstairs
MATUSCHKA: Fran been sick or something ? Dr. Dreyfuss looks at Bud .
BUD: No , no just had a little accident .
MATUSCHKA: What does he mean , accident ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Well , these things happen all the time
MATUSCHKA: What things ? Say , what kind of doctor are you , anyway ?
BUD: Oh , not that kind . He just gave he a shot and pumped her stomach out
MATUSCHKA: What for ?
FRAN: Because I took some sleeping pills . But I 'm all right now so let 's go .
MATUSCHKA: Why did you take sleeping pills ?
BUD: On account of me .
MATUSCHKA: You ?
BUD: Who else ?
FRAN: Leave him alone , Karl . She kneels beside Bud .
MATUSCHKA: Come on , Fran .
FRAN: Goodbye , Mr. Baxter .
DR. DREYFUSS: I do n't want to gloat , but just etween us , you had that coming to you . Tch , tch , tch . Are you going to have a shiner tomorrow . Let me get my bag .
BUD: Do n't bother , Doc . It does n't hurt a bit . He is on Cloud Nine .
KIRKEBY: Hi , Buddy-boy . What happened to you ?
DOBISCH: Hit by a swinging door ? Or maybe a Yellow Cab ?
KIRKEBY: That guy really must 've belted him .
DOBISCH: Yeah , he 's punchy . Talking to himself .
ELEVATOR OPERATOR: Twenty-seven .
BUD: You see , Mr. Sheldrake , those two days she spent in the apartment it made me realize how lonely I 'd een before . But thanks to you , I 'm in a financial position to marry her if I can ever square things with her family . He opens the door to Sheldrake 's anteroom .
SECRETARY'S VOICE: Mr. Baxter is here .
SHELDRAKE: Send him in .
BUD: Mr. Sheldrake , I 've got good news for you
SHELDRAKE: And I 've got good news for you , Baxter . All your troubles are over .
BUD: Sir ?
SHELDRAKE: I know how worried you were about Miss Kubelik well , stop worrying I 'm going to take he off your hands .
BUD: You 're going to take her off my hands ?
SHELDRAKE: That 's right . I 've moved out of my house I 'm going to be staying in town , at the Athletic Club .
BUD: You left your wife ?
SHELDRAKE: Well , if you must know I fired my secretary , my secretary got to my wife , and my wife fired me . Ai n't that a kick in the head ?
BUD: Yeah
SHELDRAKE: Now what was your news , Baxter ?
BUD: It 's about Miss Kubelik she 's all right again so she went back home .
SHELDRAKE: Swell . And do n't think I 've forgotten what you did for me . This way , Baxter . Bud advances slowly toward the door .
BUD: Mine ?
SHELDRAKE: My assistant , Roy Thompson , has een shifted to the Denver office , and you 're taking his place . What 's the matter , Baxter ? You do n't seem very excited .
BUD: Well , it 's just that so many things have been happening so fast I 'm very pleased especially for Miss Kubelik . Now that I 've gotten to know her better , I think she 's the kind of girl that definitely ought to be married to somebody
SHELDRAKE: Oh , sure , sure . But first the property settlement has to be worked out then it takes six weeks in Reno meanwhile , I 'm going to enjoy being a bachelor fo a while . Oh , by the way , you can now have lunch in the executive dining oom
BUD: Yes , sir . He removes his dark glasses reflectively .
SHELDRAKE: That 's just one of the privileges that goes with this job . You also get a nice little expense account , the use of the executive washroom Say , what happened to you , Baxter ?
BUD: I got kicked in the head , too .
SHELDRAKE: Oh ?
FRAN: Good evening , Mr. Baxter .
BUD: Oh , Miss Kubelik . How do you feel ?
FRAN: Fine . How 's your eye ?
BUD: Fine . There is a moment of constraint between them .
FRAN: How 's everything at the apartment ?
BUD: Nothing 's changed . You know , we never finished that gin game
FRAN: I know . I suppose you heard about Mr. Sheldrake ?
BUD: You mean , leaving his wife ? Yeah . I 'm very happy for you .
FRAN: I never thought he 'd do it .
BUD: I told you all along . You see , you were wrong about Mr. Sheldrake .
FRAN: I guess so .
BUD: For that matter , you were wrong about me , too . What you said about those who take and those who get took ? Well , Mr. Sheldrake was n't using me I was using him . See ? Last month I was at desk 861 on the nineteenth floor now I 'm on the twenty-seventh floor , paneled office , three windows so it all worked out fine we 're both getting what we want .
FRAN: Yes . You walking to the subway ?
BUD: No , thank you . I well , to tell you the truth I have this heavy date fo tonight
FRAN: Oh .
BUD: Are n't you meeting Mr. Sheldrake ?
FRAN: No . You know how people talk . So I decided it would be better if we did n't see each other till everything is settled , divorce-wise .
BUD: That 's very wise .
FRAN: Good night , Mr. Baxter .
BUD: Good night , Miss Kubelik .
SHELDRAKE: Baxter would you mind stepping in her for a minute ?
BAXTER'S VOICE: Yes , Mr. Sheldrake .
BOOTBLACK: Much obliged .
BUD: Here 's the breakdown of figures on personnel turnover . Thirty-seven percent of our female employees leave to get married , twenty-two percent quit because
SHELDRAKE: You 're working too hard , Baxter . It 's New Year 's Eve relax .
BUD: Yes , sir .
SHELDRAKE: I suppose you 'll be on the town tonight celebrating ?
BUD: Naturally .
SHELDRAKE: Me , too . I 'm taking Miss Kubelik out I finally talked her into it
BUD: I see .
SHELDRAKE: The only thing is I 'm staying at the Athletic Club and it 's strictly stag so if you do n't mind
BUD: Do n't mind what ?
SHELDRAKE: You know that other key to you apartment well , when we had that little scare about Miss Kubelik , I thought I 'd better get rid of it quick so I threw it out the window of the commuter train .
BUD: Very clever .
SHELDRAKE: Now I 'll have to borrow your key .
BUD: Sorry , Mr. Sheldrake .
SHELDRAKE: What do you mean , sorry ?
BUD: You 're not going to bring anybody up to my apartment .
SHELDRAKE: I 'm not just bringing anybody I 'm bringing Miss Kubelik .
BUD: Especially not Miss Kubelik .
SHELDRAKE: How 's that again ?
BUD: No key !
SHELDRAKE: Baxter , I picked you for my team ecause I thought you were a bright young man . You realize what you 're doing ? Not to me but to yourself . Normally it takes years to work your way up to the twenty-seventh floor but it takes only thirty seconds to be out on the street again . You dig ?
BUD: I dig .
SHELDRAKE: So what 's it going to be ?
BUD: Thank you , sir .
SHELDRAKE: Say , Baxter you gave me the wrong key .
BUD: No I did n't .
SHELDRAKE: But this is the key to the executive washroom .
BUD: That 's right , Mr. Sheldrake . I wo n't be needing it because I 'm all washed up around here .
SHELDRAKE: What 's gotten into you , Baxter ?
BUD: Just following doctor 's orders . I 've decided to become a mensch . You know what that means ? A human eing .
SHELDRAKE: Now hold on , Baxter
BUD: Save it . The old payola wo n't work any more . Goodbye , Mr. Sheldrake .
DR. DREYFUSS: Say , Baxter we 're having a little party and we ran out of ice so I was wondering
BUD: Sure , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: How come you 're alone on New Year 's Eve ?
BUD: Well , I have things to do
DR. DREYFUSS: What 's this you packing ?
BUD: Yeah I 'm giving up the apartment .
DR. DREYFUSS: Where are you moving to ?
BUD: I do n't know . All I know is I got to get out of this place .
DR. DREYFUSS: Sorry to lose you , Baxter .
BUD: Me ? Oh , you mean my body . Do n't worry , Doc it 'll go to the University I 'll put it in writing
DR. DREYFUSS: Booze we do n't need . Why do n't you join us , Baxter ? We got two brain surgeons , an ear , nose and throat specialist , a proctologist , and three nurses from Bellevue .
BUD: No , thanks I do n't feel like it . Look , Doc in case I do n't see you again how much do I owe you for taking care of that girl ?
DR. DREYFUSS: Forget it I did n't do it as a doctor I did it as a neighbor . By the way , whatever happened to her ?
BUD: You know me with girls . Easy come , easy go . Goodbye , Doc .
DR. DREYFUSS: Happy New Year .
SHELDRAKE: Sorry it took me so long on the phone . But we 're all set .
FRAN: All set for what ?
SHELDRAKE: I rented a car it 's going to be here at one o'clock we 're driving to Atlantic City .
FRAN: Atlantic City ?
SHELDRAKE: I know it 's a drag but you ca n't find a hotel room in town not on New Year 's Eve .
FRAN: Ring out the old year , ring in the new . Ring-a-ding-ding .
SHELDRAKE: I did n't plan it this way , Fran actually , it 's all Baxter 's fault .
FRAN: Baxter ?
SHELDRAKE: He would n't give me the key to the apartment .
FRAN: He would n't .
SHELDRAKE: Just walked out on me quit threw that big fat job right in my face .
FRAN: The nerve .
SHELDRAKE: That little punk after all I did for him ! He said I could n't bring anybody to his apartment especially not Miss Kubelik . What 's he got against you , anyway ?
FRAN: I do n't know . I guess that 's the way it crumbles cookie-wise .
SHELDRAKE: What are you talking about ?
FRAN: I 'd spell it out for you only I ca n't spell .
SHELDRAKE: Happy New Year , Fran .
FRAN: Mr. Baxter ! Mr. Baxter ! Mr. Baxter !
BUD: I 'm fine .
FRAN: Are you sure ? How 's your knee ?
BUD: I 'm fine all over .
FRAN: Mind if I come in ?
BUD: Of course not .
FRAN: Where are you going ?
BUD: Who knows ? Another neighborhood another town another job I 'm on my own .
FRAN: That 's funny so am I . What did you do with the cards ?
BUD: In there .
FRAN: I 'm going to send him a fruit cake every Christmas .
BUD: I love you , Miss Kubelik .
FRAN: Seven queen . She hands the deck to Bud .
BUD: Did you hear what I said , Miss Kubelik ? I absolutely adore you .
FRAN: Shut up and deal !
CHARLIE: It 's crazy sugar is up to 200 dollars a ton sugar !
LAWYER: What about oil ?
CHARLIE: Food , oil look , let me show you something . This is the economy of the United States in two years He takes a newspaper , draws a circle .
ACCOUNTANT: What 's to prevent it ?
CHARLIE: Maybe nothing . But I 'll tell you , I did n't build a two-billion-dolla company in the last twenty years y doing nothing . We can protect our interests . We are still the most powerful nation in the world . Militarily .
CAPTAIN: How about a drink ?
WILLARD: Sure , thanks . He sits down at the table with the drinks .
CAPTAIN: Winning the war by yourself .
WILLARD: Part .
CAPTAIN: Which part is that ?
WILLARD: My part .
CAPTAIN: That 's good gin .
WILLARD: I 'm sure it is , but I had hepatitis .
CAPTAIN: Delta ?
WILLARD: No .
CAPTAIN: North ?
WILLARD: Yeah . Way north .
CAPTAIN: What unit were you with ?
WILLARD: None .
CAPTAIN: Rangers , eh ?
WILLARD: Sort of .
CAPTAIN: Were you Longe Range Recon
WILLARD: No I worked too far north fo
CAPTAIN: That 's quite an array of ribbons
WILLARD: Let 's talk about you .
CAPTAIN: I was an FO for the 25th .
WILLARD: Tracks ?
CAPTAIN: Yeah .
WILLARD: Fat . That 's real fat .
CAPTAIN: Sometimes .
WILLARD: At least you always have enough water . How many gallons does each one of those damn things carry ?
CAPTAIN: Thirty sometimes fifty .
WILLARD: You know , I can remember once , getting back below the DMZ and the first Americans we ran into were a track squadron . I just could n't believe how much wate they had . We 'd been chewing amboo shoots for almost a week , and before that , for two weeks , we 'd been drinking anything ain water , river shit , stuff ight out of the paddies . And there were these guys standing y their trucks spilling wate all over . I could 've killed them . I swear to God I would have , too , if
CAPTAIN: I did n't know we had units up there in North Vietnam .
WILLARD: We do .
CAPTAIN: How long were you up there ?
WILLARD: A long time .
CAPTAIN: A year ? Waiter another beer .
WILLARD: I go up on missions . Listen Captain , buy me all the bee you want , but you better tell that asshole over there you 're not going to find out anymore about me .
CIVILIAN: If you 're B.L . Willard , 4th Recon Group , we 'd like you to come with us .
WILLARD: Whose orders ?
CAPTAIN: Headquarters 11 Corps 405th A.S.A Battalion S-2 Com-Sec Intelligence Nha Trang .
WILLARD: Who are you ?
CIVILIAN: The agency .
WILLARD: Captain B.L . Willard , G-4 Headquarters , eporting as ordered , sir .
COLONEL: Have you ever seen this office efore , Captain Willard ? He points to the Major .
WILLARD: No , sir .
COLONEL: This gentleman or myself ?
WILLARD: No , sir .
COLONEL: I believe on your last job you executed a tax collector in Kontum , is that right ?
WILLARD: I am not presently disposed to discuss that , sir .
MAJOR: Very good .
COLONEL: You know much about about Special Forces ; Green Berets , Captain ?
WILLARD: I 've worked with them on occasions and I saw the movie , sir . The officer smiles at this .
COLONEL: Then you can appreciate Command 's concern over their shall we say 'erratic ' methods of operation . I have never favored elite units , Captain , including your paratroopers or whatever . Just because a man jumps out of an airplane or wears a silly hat does n't give him any priviliges in my book not in this man 's army .
MAJOR: We did n't need 'em in Korea no sir , give me an Ohio farm boy and an M-1 Garand , none of this fancy crap no sir .
CIVILIAN: Major .
COLONEL: We have Special Forces A detachments all along the Cambodian border . Two here and another one here twelve o fourteen Americans pretty much on their own ; they train and motivate Montagnard natives ; pick their own operations . If they need something , they call for it , and get it within eason . What we 're concerned with is here .
MAJOR: Communications naturally dwindled with the lack of V.C . activity , this is routine , expected but six months ago communication virtually stopped .
COLONEL: About the same time large numbers of Montagnards of the M'Nong descent egan leaving the area this in itself is not unusual since these people have fought with the Rhade Tribe that lived in the area fo centuries . But what is unusual is that we began to find Rhade refugees too in the same sampans as the M'Nongs . These people are n't afraid of V.C . They 've put up with wa for twenty years but something is driving them out .
MAJOR: We communicate with the base infrequently . What they call fo are air strikes , immediate always at night . And we do n't know what or who the air strikes are called on .
WILLARD: Who ?
MAJOR: You see , no one has really gone into this area and come back alive .
WILLARD: Why me ?
MAJOR: Walter Kurtz , Lieutenant Colonel , Special Forces . We understand you knew him . He puts Kurtz ' dossier in Willard 's hand .
WILLARD: Yeah .
COLONEL: He 's commanding the detachment at Nu Mung Ba .
SECOND VOICE: Blue Delta five This Big Rhine three Need that ordinance immediately Goddamn give it to me immediate Christ Big Rhino Blue God Delta damn goddamn .
THIRD VOICE: This is Big Rhino six Blue Delta .
MAJOR: That 's Colonel Kurtz .
STATIC: We 'd also like some white phosporous , Blue Delta . White phosporous , give it to me .
WILLARD: I only met Kurtz once .
CIVILIAN: Would he remember you ?
WILLARD: Maybe .
COLONEL: What was your impression of him ? Willard shrugs .
CIVILIAN: You did n't like him .
WILLARD: Anyone got a cigarette .
COLONEL: A lame ?
WILLARD: This is years ago , before he joined Special Forces , I guess . We had an argument .
COLONEL: About what ?
WILLARD: I do n't know . He was a lame , that 's all .
COLONEL: But why ?
WILLARD: He could n't get through a sentence without all these ig words ; about why we kill .
COLONEL: Well , he 's killing now .
WILLARD: Maybe .
CIVILIAN: What does that mean ?
WILLARD: Maybe it 's not Kurtz . I do n't elieve he 's capable of that . I just do n't believe it .
COLONEL: It 's got to be Kurtz .
CIVILIAN: The point is that Kurtz o somebody attacked a South Vietnamese Ranger Platoon three days ago . Last week a Recon helicopter was lost in the area another took heavy damage direct fire from their base camp .
WILLARD: Our Recon flight ?
CIVILIAN: Ours .
WILLARD: Touchy .
CIVILIAN: You can see , of course , the implications , if any of this even rumours leaked out .
WILLARD: You want me to clean it up simple and quiet .
CIVILIAN: Exactly you 'll go up the Nung River in a Navy P.B.R . appear at Nu Mung Ba as if by accident , re-establish you acquintance with Colonel Kurtz , find out what 's happened and why . Then terminate his command .
WILLARD: Terminate ?
CIVILIAN: Terminate with extreme prejudice .
WILLARD: Chief , try to keep out of where we 're going Why we 're goin ' and what 's gon na be the big surprise .
CHIEF: All right with me , I used to drive a taxi .
WILLARD: Let 's go .
CHIEF: The Delta closes off to us about ten miles out of Hau Fat . We 'll e able to pick up some supplies it I think there are only two points we can draw enough wate to get into the Nung River . It 's all Charlie 's turf from there on out .
WILLARD: We 're gon na have some help to get in the river . You know these waters , Chief ?
CHIEF: 'Bout six months ago I took a man up to Lo Mung Bridge . He was egular Army too . Shot himself in the head . I brought his body ack down .
WILLARD: Shot himself . What for ?
CHIEF: Beats me the sun was too much for him , or the mud . Who knows ? Pause , looking at Willard .
WILLARD: Arch light .
CHEF: I hate that Every time I hea that noise something terrible happens .
CHIEF: Anybody see some smoke ?
CLEAN: Too far inland .
LANCE: There they are . He points up to the sky .
CLEAN: Charlie do n't ever hear 'em . Not till it 's too late do n't have to hit you neither , concussion 'll do it for a quarter mile or better . Burst your ears suck the ai outta your lungs .
LANCE: Hey .
CHIEF: Lance I want you to go with the Captain an ' get three extra drums of fuel and maybe scrounge some more 50 caliber .
LANCE: Yeah look at those uniforms .
CHIEF: Poor bastards , have a long yea to go .
SERGEANT: I do n't know anything about these papers , sir .
WILLARD: They 're in order it 's perfectly clean just check with ComSec- Intel like I said .
SERGEANT: Well , you know I do n't have the priority to do that , sir . It says here not to contact Com-Sec- Int . Who 's your commanding officer ?
WILLARD: Right now I am .
SERGEANT: Well who the hell verifies that ?
WILLARD: I do .
CHIEF: No shit what 's all the activity for around here ?
SERGEANT: The show
WILLARD: What show ?
SERGEANT: Big show in the parade grounds this noon some boss stuff
WILLARD: This Bob Hope or the like
SERGEANT: No sir , I think this 'll be a little bit different
CHIEF: Where 's it gon na be ? He points
CHEF: It 's really too much I mean I 've collected every picture of her since she was Miss December .
CLEAN: Yeah you can really get hung up on them like the cat in the Delta .
CHIEF: What cat ?
CLEAN: One that went up for murder he was an Army Sergeant .
CHIEF: I never heard about that .
CLEAN: Yeah he really dug his Playboy mag , man I mean like he was there when it arrived He just knew .
CHEF: So what happened ?
CLEAN: He was working A.R.V.N . patrols and had one a them little cocky gook asshole Lieutenants anyhow , the Lieutenant took his new Playboy one day , sat on the end of the dock , and would n't give it back .
CHEF: Yeah typical A.R.V.N .
CLEAN: Then went too far he sat there and starts mutilating the centerfold . Poking pins in her an ' all that . Sergeant says , do n't do her like that . You leave you shitty little hands off that girl . Gook Lieutenant says Fuck you in Vietnamese Sergeant says , do n't do that again . You 'll wish you had n't . Then he stood up , flicked his iron to rock and roll and gave the little zero a long burst through the Playboy mag . Man , it lew him clean off the dock Hell , just the magazine was floatin ' there all full of holes .
CHIEF: They nail him for it bad ?
CLEAN: He 's in the L.B.J . did n't give him no medals or nothing
AGENT: I 'd like to say hello from all of us up here , to all of you out there . All of you who 've worked so hard during Operation Brute Force Paratroopers Infantry Airmen Medics Marines and Sailors . And I want you to know that we feel proud of you and know how hard you job is . To prove it we 've brought some entertainment we think you 're gon na like The Playmate of the Yea and her two runners up !
CHIEF: Smoke !
WILLARD: Where ? They all turn . Chief points up the coast .
CHIEF: Yeah fishing village helicopters over there . Hueys , lots of 'em .
WILLARD: First Air Cavalry . They 're the ones gon na get us into the River .
KILGORE: Lieutenant Bomb that tree line ack about a hundred yards give me some room to breathe . A Lieutenant and radio man nod and rush off .
GUARD: Sir ?
KILGORE: Body cards , you damn fool cards !
WILLARD: Captain B-L. Willard , sir 4th Recon Group I carry priority papers from Com-Sec Intelligence 11 Corp I believe you understand the nature of my mission .
KILGORE: Yeah Na Trang told me to expect you we 'll see what we can do . Just stay out of my way till this is done , Captain .
LANCE: Gunner 's Mate , Third Class L. Johnson , sir .
KILGORE: Lance Johnson ? The surfer ?
LANCE: That 's right , sir . Kilgore smiles sticks out his hand .
KILGORE: It 's an honor to meet you Lance . I 've admired your nose-riding fo years I like your cutback , too . I think you have the best cutback there is .
LANCE: Thank you , sir .
KILGORE: You can cut out the sir , Lance I 'm Bill kilgore I 'm a goofy foot .
WILLARD: My orders are from Com-Sec Intel B.L . Willard , 4th Recon
KILGORE: Just hold up a second , Captain I 'll get to you soon enough We 've got things to do here .
LANCE: I have n't surfed since I got here .
KILGORE: That 's terrible we 'll change that I 'd like to see you work I 've always liked your cutback ; got a hell of a left turn , too .
WILLARD: I got bored in Saigon .
KILGORE: What 's the furthest you been in ?
WILLARD: Haiphong .
KILGORE: Haiphong ? Shit , you jump in ?
WILLARD: No . Walked .
KILGORE: What 'd you do for supplies ?
WILLARD: Mercenaries agents , traitors they put out caches .
KILGORE: Can you trust them ?
WILLARD: No . They put out two or three for every one I needed . When you get to the one you 'll use , you just stake it out . If something feels wrong , you just pass it up . On one mission , I had to pass up three and ended up living on rats and chocolate ars .
KILGORE: Nu Mung Ba . Last I heard , Walte Kurtz commanded a Green Beret detachment at Nu Mung Ba .
WILLARD: When did you hear ?
KILGORE: 'Bout a year ago ? Is Kurtz still alive ?
WILLARD: Who knows .
KILGORE: Seems to me he got himself fragged . i heard some grunt olled a grenade in his tent . Maybe a rumor . Helluva man emarkable officer . Walte Kurtz woulda been a General some day . General of the Army . Shit , Head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff . Did you knew Kurtz ?
WILLARD: I met him .
KILGORE: Do n't you agree ?
WILLARD: He musta changed ! I got to get into the Nung River , here or here .
KILGORE: That village you 're pointing at is kinda hairy .
WILLARD: Hairy ?
KILGORE: I mean it 's hairy they got some pretty heavy ordnance , boy I 've lost a few recon ships in there now and again .
WILLARD: So ? I heard you had a good bunch of killers here .
KILGORE: And I do n't intend to get some of them chewed up just to get you tub put in the mouth of the goddman Nung River . You say you do n't know Kurtz ?
WILLARD: I met him .
KILGORE: You talk like him . I do n't mind taking casualties , Captain , but I like to keep my ratio ten to one in this unit ten Cong to one .
WILLARD: You 'll find enough Cong up there .
KILGORE: What about this point here ? He puts his finger on the map .
MIKE: Boss left .
KILGORE: What do you mean ?
MIKE: It 's really long left slide , eaks on the short side of the point catches a south swell .
LANCE: Nice . Willard looks at Lance then at Kilgore .
KILGORE: Why the hell did n't you tell me about that place a good left . There are n't any good left slides in this whole , shitty country . It 's all goddamn beach break .
MIKE: It 's hairy , though . That 's where we lost McDonnel they shot the hell out of us . It 's Charlie 's point .
KILGORE: How big it is ?
MIKE: Six to eight feet .
KILGORE: A six-foot left . Willard nudges Lance who gets the idea .
LANCE: Boss . What 's the wind like .
MIKE: Light off shore really hollow .
WILLARD: We could go in tomorrow at dawn there 's always off-shore wind in the morning .
CHIEF: The draft of that river might be too shallow on the point .
KILGORE: Hell , we 'll pick your boat up and lay it down like a baby , right where you want it . This is the Cav boy airmobile . I can take that point and hold it as long as I like and you can get anywhere you want up that iver that suits you , Captain . Hell , a six foot left . You take a gunship back to division Mike , take Lance with you let him pick out a board , and bring me my Yater Spoon the eight six .
TOM: I do n't know , sir it 's it 's
KILGORE: What is it ?
TOM: Well , I mean it 's hairy in there it 's Charlie 's point .
WILLARD: Charlie do n't surf .
KILGORE: How do you feel , boy ?
GUNNER: Like a mean motherfucker , sir . He turns to his R.T. man .
KILGORE: Let 's go .
KILGORE: We 'll come in low out of the rising sun We 'll put on the music about a mile out .
WILLARD: Music ?
KILGORE: Yeah . Classical stuff scares the hell out of the slopes the oys love it .
PILOT: Big Duke six to Eagle Thrust turn on coordinates 1-0 niner , assume attack formation .
KILGORE: Big Duke Six to Hell 's Angels Fou bring it in on along tree line and huts .
WILLARD: Who ?
KILGORE: The enemy . Who else ?
LIEUTENANT: You did n't tell me to , sir .
KILGORE: You shoulda known .
WILLARD: Automatic weapons flashes along those trees probably eleven millimeter guns and AK-47 's .
KILGORE: The trees , eh He grabs the R.T .
WILLARD: Anyone got a card ?
KILGORE: The L.Z . 's cooling off fast we 'll move in another company an ' then we 'll own it . Charlie 's point . He looks out toward the ocean .
LANCE: What , sir ?
KILGORE: I said it 's a good swell hell of a good swell 'bout six feet . Let 's get a look at it . Lance looks at Willard and then agrees .
SOLDIER: Incoming !
KILGORE: Look at that . They look .
LANCE: This L.Z . is still pretty hot , sir , maybe we oughta stand somewhere else . Kilgore pays him no mention .
WILLARD: I 'm waiting for the fucking boat , Colonel .
KILGORE: It 'll get here , soldier .
MIKE: Wh what ?
KILGORE: Change get out there I want ' a see if it 's ridable change .
MIKE: It 's still pretty hairy , sir .
KILGORE: You want ' a surf , soldier ? He nods yes meakly .
LANCE: I think we ought to wait fo the tide to come in .
KILGORE: Does n't happen for six hours . Lance looks up at him terrified , holding onto his helmet .
LANCE: Sure fine
KILGORE: That 's far enough pick one up and come on in
LANCE: Maybe he 'll get tubed .
WILLARD: What ?
LANCE: Maybe he 'll get inside the tube where where they ca n't see him . A SERIES of SHELLS ROAR in .
WILLARD: Incoming !
KILGORE: Son of a bitch .
LANCE: The tragedy of this war is a dead surfer .
WILLARD: What 's that ?
LANCE: Just something I read in the Free Press .
KILGORE: They just missed a good set the chicken shits ! Lance looks up .
CHIEF: Forget that extra drum it 's too damn hot .
CLEAN: Clear on starboard Where 's Lance an ' the Captain ?
CHIEF: I saw that Colonel 's Huey on the point Two HELICOPTERS SCREAM over FIRING ROCKETS .
WILLARD: Look . There it is ; the boat .
LANCE: He 'll kill us .
WILLARD: He ca n't kill us . We 're on his side .
KILGORE: You smell that . You smell that ?
LANCE: What ?
KILGORE: Napalm , boy nothing else in the world smells like that They reflect the glow from the burning trees .
WILLARD: You know , some day this war 's gon na end..
KILGORE: Yes , I know .
LANCE: What ?
KILGORE: Feel it it 's the wind it 's lowing on shore It 's on shore ! He leans down and practically grabs Lance .
WILLARD: The kid ca n't ride sloppy waves . They turn and stare out to sea .
LANCE: Yeah , I 'm an artist , goddamit !
KILGORE: Yeah yeah , I can understand how you feel . He turns toward the trees .
WILLARD: Are you finished surfing ?
LANCE: Yeah thanks .
WILLARD: Want to say goodbye to the Colonel ?
LANCE: Nah .
WILLARD: Then let 's get the hell out of here .
LANCE: No no , Captain .
WILLARD: Which one 's the Colonel 's ?
LANCE: The Yater the clear one with the thin stringer .
WILLARD: This one , Lance ?
LANCE: Yeah , Jesus Christ !
CLEAN: What 'd you that for ?
WILLARD: When I was a kid I , never had a Yater spoon .
LANCE: Maybe we better stay in unde the trees till dark we got his Yater .
WILLARD: He did n't look like he 'd take that sitting down .
CHIEF: Lance -
LANCE: Yeah .
CHIEF: Why do n't you roll us a big joint ? I think the Captain 'd like that .
WILLARD: Take one a mine
LANCE: You hear it again ?
WILLARD: No I do n't think so . But it 'll be back . They were circling . It 'll be back .
LANCE: You think he 'd of shot us ?
WILLARD: When ?
LANCE: Any time us Americans . Lance looks over at Willard .
WILLARD: I do n't think hed of shot us on the beach but he 'd of shot us if he saw me taking the board
LANCE: A Yater spoon is hard to get especially here .
WILLARD: He 's a man who knows what he wants he does know what he wants .
CHEF: Can I go get those mangos now ?
CHIEF: I 'll go with you in a while judt hold tight awhile
LANCE: Captain that was all true about the rats and chocolate and stuff ?
WILLARD: Sure .
LANCE: And you could just tell when the supplies were booby trapped ?
WILLARD: It 's a feeling you get in the jungle . When you get good , you can find a track and tell not only how many they are , but their morale , how far they 're going , whether they 're nea their camp , the weapons they 're carrying .
CLEAN: How can you tell their weapons.. an ' how far they 're going ? Willard smiles .
WILLARD: Mostly from the imprints when they put them down to rest . their morale from the way they drag their feet , or the joints that may be lying around . If they 're near a base camp , they would n't be conserving food ; they 'll be throwing it away half-eaten . If the branches are n't oken , their weapons are slung . But all this is just technique.. There 's a feeling you get after a while , that 's what 's important . I was going through a village once . I was looking for a certain party . I took off my boots , and walked into each hut . It was midnight . I went into three like that and suddenly I realized Id gone into each hut the same way standing up so the next one I went in on my belly . An RPD burst took out the door a bit above my head . Things like that .
CLEAN: Jesus that guy 's too damn much .
CHIEF: I wonder if that was the same copter .
WILLARD: He 's probably got 'em all ove the river with that recording . We better move now while it 's dark . Chef steps forward with a plastic basket .
CHIEF: Yeah , Chef go ahead take Lance with you
WILLARD: I 'll go with him They all look at him .
CHEF: Yes , sir
WILLARD: Why they call you that ?
CHEF: Call me what , sir ?
WILLARD: Chef is that 'cause you like mangoes an ' stuff ?
CHEF: No , sir I 'm a real chef , si I 'm a sauciere
WILLARD: A sauciere
CHEF: That 's right , sir I come from New Orleans I was raised to e a sauciere.. a great sauciere . We specialize in sauces ; my whole family . It 's what we do . I was supposed to go to Paris and study at the Escoffier School ; I was saving the money . They called me for my physical so I figured the Navy had better food .
WILLARD: What are you doing out here ?
CHEF: Cook school that did it .
WILLARD: How ?
CHEF: They lined us all up in front of a hundred yards of prime rib magnificent meat , beautifully marbled.. Then they started throwing it in these big cauldrons , all of it boiling . I looked in , an ' it was turning gray . I could n't stand it . I went into radio school . They move into a slight clearing .
WILLARD: quiet
CHEF: It 's a motherfucking tiger goddamn
LANCE: What 's this tiger shit ?
WILLARD: No shit I think I shot the hell out of him .
LANCE: You think ?
WILLARD: I wasnt looking.. I was running .
CLEAN: Was a big tiger no shit ?
WILLARD: Who stopped to measure him let 's get the hell out of here .
CHEF: A motherfucking tiger I could 've een killed .
CHIEF: You forgot the mangoes , did n't you ?
CHEF: Mangoes ? There as a fucking tiger in the woods I could 've een eaten alive . I 'm neve going into that jungle again . I got ta remember never get out of the boat ; never get outta the boat .
RADIO: must remember that we owe our thanks for these to the wonderful services of the U.S.O . here 's another oldie this one dedicated
CHEF: Outa sight . The SONG BLARES ON they all dig it .
WILLARD: Soldier where's your C.O . ?
SOLDIER: Stepped on a booby trap , sir got blown all to hell
WILLARD: Well , who 's in command here ?
SOLDIER: I do n't know do n't have any idea I 'm just the night man
WILLARD: What about you , soldier ?
AGENT: You came in on that boat , did n't you ?
WILLARD: Yeah
AGENT: Where are you headed ?
WILLARD: What 's it matter ? Get to the point .
AGENT: Look you know the girls Thta 's Terri she was playmate of
WILLARD: Yeah , I caught your show at Hau Fat . They all look over .
AGENT: Oh I see Well , girls , this is Captain eh
WILLARD: Captain Willard go ahead .
AGENT: Look we got in a little trouble they rudely took our helicopte for MedEvac work on this uh Operation Brute Force They just ought it back this morning .
WILLARD: Yeah .
AGENT: Well I mean like they also took our fuel We 've been here two days .
WILLARD: Dreadful .
AGENT: Look the girls could get killed we 're not supposed to e this close combat , I mean eal combat .
WILLARD: Well
AGENT: We could use some fuel just a half drum just enough to get us out a here .
WILLARD: We need all our fuel . He turns and starts to leave .
AGENT: But , Captain , think what these girls have done for the boys think of how they 've risked Willard is almost out of the tent .
TERRI: Captain He turns around .
PILOT: That 's rich
TERRI: Do us a favor I 'd do one fo you if I could
AGENT: Look you know who that is , Captain you know what she 's saying you 'll never see stuff that good outside of a magazine for the rest of your life .
WILLARD: I 'm not that fond of blondes maybe I like brunettes
AGENT: Take your pick they all like you I can tell
WILLARD: I like all of them
AGENT: Good like I said , take you pick .
WILLARD: I said I like all of them .
AGENT: Now just a second I 'm doing you a favor , buddy what 're you trying to pull ? Willard turns to leave again .
WILLARD: We need all our fuel anyway .
AGENT: Wait wait do n't get up tight what I meant was we 'd need a whole drum for that
WILLARD: Sit down we 'll talk about it .
AGENT: What 's there to talk about this whole thing disgusts me .
WILLARD: My men
AGENT: What !
WILLARD: That 's what there is to talk about my man I take a good care of my men
AGENT: You 're out of your skull
WILLARD: We have a lot of pride in ou unit
AGENT: How far do you think you can push what kind of people do you think
WILLARD: Esprit de corps
AGENT: No absolutely not
WILLARD: One for all all for one
AGENT: You can keep your fucking fuel Willard gets up .
WILLARD: You make some of your closest friends in the army war has a way of bringing men together .
AGENT: Get out
WILLARD: Men of all races nationalities He gets up and starts out .
AGENT: Two drums Willard turns around slowly .
WILLARD: We can use some fifty caliber and a 16 too
AGENT: I do n't know what you 're talking about Get fucked
WILLARD: I will I assure you that You got a fifty on that H-34 leave the ammo in boxes I 'll get my men to bring the first drum with 'em He turns to go under the tent flap .
CLEAN: You keep this thing in this condition an ' it 's gon na jam , Lance mark my words .
LANCE: Why do n't you go pet the wate uffaloes get off my back .
CHIEF: Careful , Captain , they 've been known to charge .
WILLARD: All right I got a little surprise for you They all look up .
CHEF: No shit .
WILLARD: Chef since you 're such a fan of Miss December 's I think you should be detailed with Lance and Clean to take the first drum up there .
CHEF: I do n't believe you
CHIEF: What 're you trying to say , Captain
WILLARD: You 'll see soon enough get going , sailor
CHIEF: No shit hot damn
CHEF: I 've got every one of you pictures I 've got the centerfold the Playmate 's eview the Playmate of the Year run-off everything , even the calender
LYNDA: Well , get undressed and let 's get it over with
CHEF: I ca n't believe it I 'd a never even got to see you if it was n't for this war She lies down on the cot in only her panties .
LYNDA: Come on cut this crap I got ta get back to Saigon
CHEF: Just let me look awhile I just do n't believe
LANCE: Well uh thanks see you around .
CATHY: Yeah .
CLEAN: I 'm next She shrugs .
WILLARD: Ma'am I 'd like to thank you fo what you an ' all your friends have done for us I want you to know that me an ' the men appreciate you coming all this way riskin ' your lives living uncomfortably an ' doing all you can to entertain us . I want you to know personally , Miss , that for the past few minutes you have made me feel at home .
SOLDIER: I got ta get out a here Ill pay I got money .
CHIEF: Get away from this boat .
WILLARD: Who 's your C.O. , soldier ? The Soldier ducks back and runs away .
SOLDIER: Fuck you , you 'll get what 's coming to you .
LIEUTENANT: Captain Willard ?
WILLARD: That 's me .
LIEUTENANT: Captain Willard we got these from Nha Thrang two days ago they expected you here then
WILLARD: Why ?
LIEUTENANT: Now I can get out a here if I can find a way out .
WILLARD: We 'll be needing some supplies and fuel do you know anybody who can give me a hand ?
LIEUTENANT: I 'd just clear out as soon as I could if I were you , sir . They 're gon na start working on the bridge with torches again . Charlie will start throwing it in hard
WILLARD: What is this bridge ?
LIEUTENANT: It 's of strategic importance fo keeping the highway into Bat Shan open the generals do n't like to admit that Bat Shan is surrounded . He points to the men getting ready to work .
CHIEF: All right Lance , go with the Captain an ' see what you can scrounge Willard climbs out with Lance .
VOICE: Straight ahead , son of a bitch . They dive towards the voice .
SOLDIER: You came right to it , son of a bitch
WILLARD: Son of a bitch , sir . The Soldier does n't respond .
SOLDIER: Beverly Hills
WILLARD: What ?
SOLDIER: Straight up the road a concrete unker Beverly Hills where else you think he 'd be ?
WILLARD: C'mon
VOICE: Watch your feet , asshole Willard looks down .
LANCE: We thought you were dead .
VOICE: The whole world loves a smart ass .
WILLARD: What 're you shooting at , soldier ?
GUNNER: Gooks . He turns and sees it 's an officer .
WILLARD: It 's all right , sergeant what 's out there ?
GUNNER: They were tryin ' to cut through the wire I got 'em all I think .
OTHER SOLDIER: Oh yeah listen .
GUNNER: He 's trying to call his friends send up a flare .
SPOTTER: Those are all dead , stupid , he 's obviously underneath 'em
GUNNER: Wake up the Roach .
ROACH: Yeah , man .
SPOTTER: Slope in the wire hear him . He listens , he does , he nods .
GUNNER: Hear him ?
ROACH: Sure , yeah .
GUNNER: You need a flare
ROACH: No , its cool .
CHEF: Geez , I wish they 'd hurry .
SOLDIER: Hey , buddy , that boat still runs , eh ?
CLEAN: Yeah , it still runs .
SOLDIER: Do me a favor buddy , please .
CLEAN: What is it ? He takes out a handful of crumpled envelopes .
SOLDIER: Send these out when you get back to the world . He puts them in Clean 's hand .
CLEAN: What 're you askin ' me for put 'em in the first helicopter comes in tomorrow .
SOLDIER: Nobody comes in here . He points up at the mountain ridges .
CLEAN: We ai n't goin ' down the river . The Soldier looks at him as if he is joking .
SOLDIER: Spooky .
CLEAN: Charlie ?
SOLDIER: No , it 'd be spooky without the wa give 'em back .
CHIEF: Wow , you must a found the C.O. , eh ?
WILLARD: We found some bodies let 's get out a here .
CHIEF: I ca n't see a fucking thing .
WILLARD: What about ducking into one of those tributaries till this rive slows down ?
CHIEF: Who knows what 's up there ?
WILLARD: Ca n't be any worse than this . What do you think ?
CHIEF: I think this river wants to take us home fast . I 'm practically goin ' in reverse .
WILLARD: Well , get in there .
CHIEF: This whole area is lousy with V.C . We do n't stand a chance . Lem me turn around and we 'll be in Hau Fat in six minutes .
WILLARD: Get in there !
CHIEF: This is my crew and my fucking oat , and I 'm the responsible party .
WILLARD: Get in there now or I 'll bury you in this river .
CHIEF: You 're fucking crazy . You 're going to get us all killed .
LANCE: It breaks through in about twenty feet .
WILLARD: What do you see ?
CHEF: I do n't know .
WILLARD: Keep cutting .
CHEF: I know it sounds stupid , but I feel like the goddamn jungle 's watching us .
WILLARD: Probably is .
CHEF: Whatdoya think it thinks .
WILLARD: That we 're dumber than we look .
CHIEF: Lance 'bout twenty meters starboard .
CHEF: There in the trees !
CHIEF: Elevate Lance , in the tree . No , I saw another .
CHEF: Thirty meters up , Lance ; I saw the fucking flash . Lance grits his teeth , FIRING
CLEAN: I 'm ripping 'em , man , son-of-a- itch , it 's jammed , oh God , it 's jammed . Clean is riddled by MACHINE GUN FIRE .
WILLARD: Throw me that ordnance .
CHEF: We 're through . He climbs aboard and collapses .
LANCE: I ai n't finished ! I ai n't finished !
WILLARD: Bring that bow ordnance into those trees .
CHEF: There 's some bad holes , man , and the cracks water 's coming through the cracks . Food 's shot to hell .
WILLARD: How much is left ?
CHEF: Less than half sure is a mess down there .
WILLARD: And the grass ?
CHEF: Still got a lot of that stuff from Nha Trang . But we 're unning low on the other . Chief pushes Clean 's body into the river .
WILLARD: Hey . They all look over .
CHEF: Yeah , it is .
CHIEF: What the hell is it ?
WILLARD: In the middle of the jungle a goddamn light .
CHIEF: We 're Americans . Another BURST , closer .
CHEF: Maybe you should n't say we 're Americans ?
WILLARD: Chef , try your French .
CHEF: Nous sommes Americains Silence .
FRENCHMAN: Vous parlez Francais comme une vache espanole .
CHEF: I thought it was pretty good , myself .
CHIEF: What 'd he say ?
CHEF: Said I speak French like a Spanish cow .
WILLARD: Do it . They do .
CHEF: Take her in slow .
PHILIPPE: Hands on the heads .
CHIEF: I ca n't steer with my goddamn feet .
CHEF: Hey , they speak American .
GASTON: Who is the commanding officer ?
WILLARD: I am I 'm Captain B.L . Willard . This is Chief Warrant Office Phillips it 's his boat . We were shot up bad downriver and need repairs and food we can pay you in gold .
GASTON: Philippe
LANCE: I 'll help you with
PHILIPPE: Do not move
GASTON: Fifty calibers , eh , Captain
WILLARD: As I said , we can pay you in gold .
GASTON: Entirely unnecessary , Captain .
WILLARD: American weapons ?
GASTON: We took them from the dead . Now I assume you want to rest , to shower . We 'll attend to you epairs after dinner .
CHEF: Shower . Willard 's men look at one another , dazed .
WILLARD: We do n't want to bother you any , we
GASTON: A man of war is never bothered to aid an ally you will follow me , Captain .
WILLARD: A habit of men of war , sir you understand .
GASTON: Of course , Captain an unfortunate necessity .
CHIEF: What about the boat ?
PHILIPPE: My men will keep it for you
CHIEF: Yeah well , I 'll stay with the oat .
WILLARD: Chief . Come with us .
GASTON: A suitable accomodation fo your men , captain you will , of course , be quartered with us
WILLARD: Go ahead Philippe leads them on , muttering .
GASTON: Captain , this way .
WILLARD: Looks like a two thousand pound to me . Yeah , a two thousand pound bomb .
GASTON: No , I 've seen those in Normandy . This is much better . My country my country could never originate this . Magnificent .
CHEF: A hot shower , hot damn .
LANCE: Huh ? Oh . Um , wouldya .. wouldya pass me the Rice-a-roni , please .
GASTON: Roxanne , I hope you are feeling etter .
ROXANNE: Je vais bien maintenant .
GASTON: May I present Captain Willard ? He is of a paratroop regiment . You know the difference between a paratrooper and a regular soldier , do n't you , my dear ?
ROXANNE: Yes , they come from the sky . She sits there 's an uneasy silence .
WILLARD: I would like to know more about the .. uh , plaque
GASTON: Attacks repulsed , as I was saying . This is only for this war , Captain . Viet Cong 54 ; North Vietnamese egular forces 15 ; South Vietnamese 28 regula forces and otherwise . Americain 6 . Of course , they were , perhaps , mistakes , Captain .
WILLARD: Of course . I Once we make our repairs , we could send word , we could have you evacuated from here .
GASTON: Captain ?
WILLARD: You 'll get blown outta here some day .
GASTON: We will never 'evacuate ' , Captain this is our home . Indochina is ours ; it has been so for a hundred and twenty-one years , there is something to say for that .
WILLARD: The Vietnamese think it 's theirs I guess the Americans do , too .
GASTON: But we civilized it . A place elongs to those who bring light to it , do n't you agree .
WILLARD: I always thought the French came here to get the rubber .
PHILIPPE: Excuse me , I must attend to my men .
ROXANNE: May I ask where the Captain is going in his little boat ?
WILLARD: We were going upriver when we got caught in a storm , ma'am .
GASTON: Upriver ? Why upriver ? There is nothing there , only jungle .
WILLARD: Do you know that jungle ?
GASTON: When I was a boy , my father would take me there , to hunt . There are a few savages , but no man can live there , no white man .
WILLARD: What about an American named Kurtz ? There is a pause .
GASTON: We have never heard of him . Gaston rises , and takes Roxanne 's hand .
WILLARD: Good night .
ROXANNE: You must realize , Captain we have lost much here I , my husband . Gaston his wife and son .
WILLARD: I 'm sorry to hear that .
ROXANNE: Cognac ?
WILLARD: I should be checking on the oat .
ROXANNE: The war will still be here tomorrow . She walks out of the room .
WILLARD: I guess so . He follows .
ROXANNE: Do you miss your home , Captain ? Have you someone there ?
WILLARD: No . Not really .
ROXANNE: Then you are like us .
WILLARD: I just follow my footsteps , one at a time , trying to answer the little questions and staying away from the big ones .
ROXANNE: What 's a big question ?
WILLARD: Kurtz . I know you 've heard of him .
ROXANNE: Yes .
WILLARD: What did you hear ?
ROXANNE: That strange things.. terrible things have occured around this American , Kurtz .
WILLARD: What things ?
ROXANNE: Gaston would never tell me . It was asubject not to be spoken of , Captain .
WILLARD: Yes .
ROXANNE: Did you know deeper in the jungle , upriver there are savages ?
WILLARD: I know .
ROXANNE: But Captain , I mean cannibals .
WILLARD: The river is beautiful .
ROXANNE: I spend hours watching that iver from my bedroom window . It fascinates me .
WILLARD: I 'm afraid I wo n't have time I got ta
ROXANNE: Whe you reach the boat you will find that half your fifty calibre stores a case of grenades , a mortar and two M-16 's and a case of clips are being transfered to us by your order . He stops seemingly stunned .
WILLARD: So that 's it .
ROXANNE: You may think what you wish , Captain , but I like you very much . She turns to go .
WILLARD: What if I say no .
ROXANNE: Then Philippe will have to kill all of you . She leaves .
GASTON: Two of my men deserted last night . It happens from time to time . I assume my daughte told you of our conditions .
WILLARD: Your daughter .
CHIEF: They taking half our ammo , Captain said it was your orders . He pauses for a second .
WILLARD: That 's right I did .
GASTON: We endure , captain you can low up the house and we will live in the cellar destroy that and we 'll dig a hole in the jungle and sleep on it . Burn the forest and we 'll hide in the swamp . all the while , we do but one thing clean the lood off our bayonets . Au revoir , Captain .
CHIEF: Next time we get in a good fire fight I 'd like to know how she was , Captain .
CHEF: Holy shit .
CLEAN: What did you put in all those ammo boxes ?
WILLARD: Rocks , sand those two men who deserted .
CHIEF: When 'd you do it ?
WILLARD: While you were sleeping . He lets the board drop . Willard moves to the back of the boat .
CHIEF: All right , Lance
LANCE: The other one
WILLARD: No leave it
CHIEF: Why Charlie put it there to kill
WILLARD: Thta 's not Charlie 's work There is silence .
CHIEF: Signs ?
WILLARD: Yeah like keep out
CHIEF: What is it ?
WILLARD: Listen .
CHIEF: They 're on the banks of the iver .
LANCE: Jesus !
CHIEF: No , Lance . Not while you ca n't see .
WILLARD: If they have boats o canoes they 'd get lost in the fog . We ca n't move either we 'll end up on the shore .
CHEF: God
LANCE: Sounds like hundreds of them .
WILLARD: Shhhhhh .
CHIEF: Which way ? Right or left ?
WILLARD: Who knows ? Right .
CHIEF: Looks pretty shallow .
WILLARD: Upon reaching objective . Target key personnel and commence operation . Should difficulty arise from which extraction is impossible , break radio silence Com-Sec Command code Strong Arm indicate purgative air strike code Street Gang . Purgative air strike ! Purgative ! They 'd kill me too !
CHIEF: Shit ! Fucking arrows ! They 're shooting fucking arrows at us .
WILLARD: Steer her right .
CHIEF: A spear ? He dies .
WILLARD: Stop it . Stop it !
LANCE: Chief 's dead .
WILLARD: Just stand here with me where they can see us . Do nothing .
AUSTRALIAN: I know , I know , it 's all right . Come in this way . It 's mined over there . This way . It 's all right .
CHEF: Charlie ?
WILLARD: Looks that way .
CHEF: Who 's he ?
WILLARD: God knows .
AUSTRALIAN: Moonby . Got any Winstons ?
WILLARD: Moonby what ?
AUSTRALIAN: Moonby , 4th battalion , Royal Australian Regiment , Task Force . Ex-Corporal Moonby , deserted .
WILLARD: What is this ?
MOONBY: Oh , they 're simple enough people . It 's good to see you , baby . Nobody has any Winstons ? Chef automatically offers Moonby a Winston .
WILLARD: Where 's Kurtz ? I want to talk to him .
MOONBY: Oh , you do n't talk to Colonel Kurtz . You listen to him . God , these are good . I kept these people off you , you know . It was n't easy .
WILLARD: Why did they attack us ?
MOONBY: Simple . They do n't want him to go .
WILLARD: You 're Australian ?
MOONBY: Pre-Australian , actually . But I 'd dig goin ' to California . I 'm California dreamin ' .
WILLARD: So Kurtz is alive .
MOONBY: Kurtz . I tell you , that man has enlarged my mind .
WILLARD: Why did n't he shoot you ?
MOONBY: I 've asked myself that question . I said to myself , why did n't he shoot me ? He did n't shoot me , ecause I had a stash like you would n't believe . I hid it in the jungle ; the wealth of the Orient Marijuana Hashish Opium cocaine uncut Heroin ; the Gold of the Golden Triangle . and Acid I make Koolaid that makes purple Owsley come on like piss . Now I 'm Kurtz ' own Disciple I listen he talks . About everything ! Everything . I forgot there 's such a thing as sleep . Everything . Of love , too .
CHEF: Love ?
MOONBY: Oh , no , not what you think Cosmic love . He made me see things things , you know .
WILLARD: Sounds like he 's gone crazy .
MOONBY: No , Colonel Kurtz could n't be crazy if you heard him talk , just last week , you 'd never think he was crazy .
WILLARD: Is that where he is ? By the shrunken heads .
MOONBY: Those heads , yes . Well , the ebels
WILLARD: We 're going ashore . Tie her up and leave your guns up , Lance .
LANCE: What ?
WILLARD: Bring your rifles , that 's all . Take us to him .
MOONBY: Right on he 's been waiting for
WILLARD: And shut up .
MOONBY: His name is
WILLARD: I 'm not ever goin ' to tell you to shut up again .
MAN: Colby . Exec . officer , A-Team Special Forces . F-82 Col. Walter Kurtz , commanding .
WILLARD: What happened here ?
COLBY: What happened here .
WILLARD: Charlie ?
COLBY: NVA regulars . They 're coming again tonight . Tet thei ig assault .
WILLARD: I 'm taking you back .
MOONBY: Oh , no , dont say that .
COLBY: Take us back . Take us back ! But , the operation the team . Colonel Kurtz has such plans fo the team .
WILLARD: Take me to him , Major .
COLBY: I had nothing to do with these operations I did not do the planning none of us did . It was all Colonel Kurtz he was the genius . You 'll see the genius of our Colonel . He should be made a General , do n't you think ? A General ? It 's
WILLARD: Colonel Kurtz , I guess .
KURTZ: I 'm Kurtz .
WILLARD: Captain B.L . Willard reporting his presence , sir .
KURTZ: At ease Sit down .
WILLARD: We were attacked down river . We need supplies and medical help .
KURTZ: You were not coming here , to see me ?
WILLARD: No no , sir .
KURTZ: You came up my river in that small boat . So simple . I always thought the final justice would come from the sky , like we did . You are the final justice , are n't you ?
WILLARD: What do you mean , Colonel ?
KURTZ: What other reason could you have come ? A Captain . Ranger . Paratrooper . Graduate of the Recondo School . Am I right about these things ?
WILLARD: You know you 're right .
KURTZ: Then the Agency approached you . Maybe in a bar in Quinon o Pleiku . Simple . A year 's pay for one life . Perhaps a village elder , or a tax collector . Nobody 's orders but your own . Exciting work .
WILLARD: Do you know me ?
KURTZ: Yes .
CHEF: Holy shit .
WILLARD: I know . Lance stirs ; starts to wake up .
CHEF: What are we doing here ?
WILLARD: Kurtz . I 'm supposed to kill him , just like he said .
KURTZ: Yeah , I can see that . He 's fuckin nuts
WILLARD: Yeah .
CHEF: He killed that guy without feeling anything .
WILLARD: Not a thing .
CHEF: When you kill Cong , do n't you feel something .
WILLARD: Sure . Recoil I feel the recoil of my rifle .
CHEF: This is evil evil , Captain . We 're all gon na die here .
WILLARD: Yeah , I know .
CHEF: I do n't get it You said you mission was to kill him . Let 's do it , an ' get our asses outta here . This Kurtz is ruining the war ; I mean , this do n't look good for America !
WILLARD: he 's an amazing officer .
CHEF: You got to kill this sonuvabitch Lance and me , we don't understand none of this Jesus , Captain I do n't wan na die here Do it quick .
WILLARD: Yeah . I know . He thinks .
MOONBY: He 's asleep do n't bother him .
KURTZ: I 'm awake .
WILLARD: You 're gon na get hit tonight , ad a whole regiment of NVA egulars .
KURTZ: That 's right , the little gook- pricks . But they are noble little gook-pricks , noble . Because they fight with thei guts , like animals . And for an u > idea ! That 's rich . We fight with ingenious machines and fire , like Gods , and for nothing . But I 'll call in a major blotto airstrike tonight . We 'll have ourselves a helluva airstrike tonight , a lightshow . How do you like The Doors ' ' C'mon Baby Light My Fire ' Willard shrugs .
WILLARD: Yeah , I like it
KURTZ: I love it . He rests back , grinning .
WILLARD: You 've gone crazy .
KURTZ: No . My thinking is clear . But my soul has gone mad .
CHEF: Kill him come on , why do n't you kill him
KURTZ: Oh shit on the table ; morphine .
WILLARD: You ca n't have water afte morphine .
KURTZ: Still playing by the rules . You 're a damn good kiler .
WILLARD: How 's the pain ?
KURTZ: How 's yours ?
WILLARD: I can handle it .
KURTZ: Pain is easy to handle but nobility.. the nobility of a man is judged by how much Truth he can handle .
WILLARD: What Truth ?
KURTZ: The truth that you were sent here to murder me , ans so fa you have n't done it . And do you know why ? Yes , you know why . Your mission makes about as much sense as those idiots who sent you on it . Asshole ! Schmuck ! How long does it take you to figure out that nobody knows what they 're doing here . Except me .
WILLARD: No water .
KURTZ: You know what you 're doing ? u > You are interfering with myplans !
CHEF: Lance the fucker 's not gon na do it .
KURTZ: Goddamn You 've got ta dig napalm on Speed , too . It 's spectacular , you 'll see .
WILLARD: How did we get here ?
KURTZ: Because of all the things we do , the thing we do best is lie .
WILLARD: I think think a lie stinks .
KURTZ: Oh Captain , that is so true .
WILLARD: Stinks . I could never figure I could never figure how they can teach boys how to bomb villages with napalm and not let them write the word 'fuck ' on thei airplanes . Willard drinks more of the LSD water .
KURTZ: You could never figure it because it does n't make sense .
WILLARD: Fuck no .
KURTZ: I 'll tell you what makes sense ! u > Air strikes ! White Phosphorus ! u > Napalm ! We 'll bomb the shit out of them if they do n't do what we want .
WILLARD: We 'll exterminate the fuckers !
CHEF: Captain kill him .
KURTZ: Think of it for years , millions of years , savages with pathetic painted faces were scared shitless that fire would rain down from the sky . And goddamn , we made
CHEF: Kill him !
LANCE: Hot damn !
SOLDIER: Wow
KURTZ: Mini-gun . Colby . Sergeant . Mini-gun .
WILLARD: Napalm .
KURTZ: Claymores , claymores .
WILLARD: Code Street Gang Street Gang ! Purgative air strike ; Street Gang !
KURTZ: Charles !
WILLARD: What are you doing ?
KURTZ: Going back - to the jungle to die .
WILLARD: I 'm taking you back . You can still live .
KURTZ: I had immense plans .
WILLARD: I 'm gon na get you out of here .
KURTZ: I was on threshold of great things .
COLBY: Who is he ?
WILLARD: He was the tragedy the tragedy of this war .
KURTZ: Do n't . Do n't frighten them away . Willard looks down at him .
WILLARD: So you understand this ?
KURTZ: Do I not ?
WILLARD: You had immense plans immense plans
KURTZ: Yes
WILLARD: I 'm taking you back .
KURTZ: The horror , the horror .
COLBY: There .
WILLARD: They must have seen the fire .
COLBY: They 're coming to rescue us . They 're Medevac .
WILLARD: They 're coming to take us back . Copters directly overhead .
COLBY: Colonel Kurtz , he 's dead .
WILLARD: Yeah .
KURTZ'S WIFE: Come in , Captain Willard . He enters .
WILLARD: You get to know each other pretty well out there .
KURTZ'S WIFE: And you admired him ?
WILLARD: He was a remarkable man . It was impossible not to
KURTZ'S WIFE: Love him Yes , it is true . That 's the hard part for me I knew him better than anyone I knew him best .
WILLARD: You knew him best .
KURTZ'S WIFE: You were his friend You must have been , if he had given you this If he sent you to his home . He was the best this country had he was
WILLARD: Yes , I know
KURTZ'S WIFE: I 'll never get over it But I 'll always remember him
WILLARD: Both of us
KURTZ'S WIFE: Men looked up to him He died as he lived
WILLARD: His death was yes , he died as he lived .
KURTZ'S WIFE: Were you with him , when
WILLARD: Yes I was He said his last words to me . Pause .
KURTZ'S WIFE: What were they ?
WILLARD: He spoke of you , ma'am . He sits there looking at her .
KIT: Pass .
CHAZ'S VOICE: C'mon , Arch ? Skip ?
ARCH: Yeah , sure I fuck on the first date Skip cracks up . Arch 's laughter follows .
CHAZ'S VOICE: Yeah , Kit , where is he ?
MORE TEASING: Oh , Kit
KIT: Oh , c'mon , Chaz , give me some room , will you ?
NIKKI: Well ?
ROB: Here 'll be fine , thanks
SUBURBAN LADY: It was a real lift for me , too , hon .
MUFFY: Shit .
CLARA'S VOICE: Need any help down there ?
CLARA: All right , then . Have a nice party .
CLARA: Good luck .
CHAZ: Here she comes
NIKKI I: Any second now .
KIT: Hi . Kit Graham Nikki Brashears .
NAN: Nan Youngblood .
NIKKI: Planning on staying a while ?
CHAZ: Chaz Vyshinsky . You got great legs .
NIKKI: Chaz , Arch already has her bag .
SKIP: Congratulations , on finding your way .
FERRYMAN: Stand clear !
GROWLS: Ok , let 's go .
ARCH: Try to control yourself , Sister O'Toole .
NIKKI: You could tie me in chains Chaz boards , passing Buck , the assistant .
BUCK: Sh -i-i-t Kit is hanging back on the dock .
FERRYMAN: Come on if you 're coming .
HARVEY: Wait up !
ROB: Sorry Nik , Chaz Rob Ferris They return greetings .
CHAZ: You 're friends with Muffy St. John ?
NIKKI: I get it . That 's a joke . Preppy Skip adds his greeting .
SKIP: Harve .
HARVEY: Hal Springsteen , he 's still the Boss !
FERRYMAN: Ok , c'mon , I do n't have all day .
HARVEY: YOU all buddies ?
NIKKI: Except for Skip and Nan . Them we just met .
KIT: But we will be .
HARVEY: No kiddin ' ?
SKIP: Distant . Over the horizon . Otherwise , I would n't be invited Old money never mixes family with friends .
NIKKI: This is true . For as long as I 've known her .
KIT: To protect her family , I guess .
SKIP: To keep her friends .
ARCH: Hey , what 's this ?
SKIP: You up for a game of stretch ?
CHAZ: Your fly 's open .
SKIP: Eat it .
CHAZ: Your fly 's open .
SHRUGS: Ok , so do n't believe me .
ROB: We 're off ! They are indeed .
SKIP: First round , the champ !
HARVEY: I bet you 're her oldest friend .
NIKKI: Actually , she 's three months older than I am .
HARVEY: You know what I mean .
HARVEY: I 've given it some thought . Why ?
NIKKI: Oh , just a hunch .
SKIP: Go for it , big fella .
CHAZ: Suck and fuck .
SMILES: Besides , it 's research I can do by myself .
KIT: That 's not my point
KIT: Oh , c'mon , do n't pull that . Rob just drops his arms in frustration . KIT
ROB: Kit Arch 's voice interrupts .
SKIP: C'mon , just one more The others look up at the interruption .
ARCH: I said , enough 's enough
SKIP: One more try , double or nothing . He flips the knife to Arch , handle first .
ARCH: C'mon , give it a fuckin ' rest !
SKIP: Oh , fuck .
ARCH: I 'll get him , I 'll get him !
SKIP'S VOICE: Hi , this what you 're looking for ?
ARCH: We got 'em ! Whoo-ee , did we nail 'em !
BUCK: SH-I-I-I-T
ROB: I owe you one .
SKIP: How 's it goin ' out there ?
BUCK: That was great !
CHAZ: Oh , too bad . Skip extends a hand to Buck to help him out .
SKIP: Sorry about that .
FERRYMAN: Ok , c'mon , get out .
ROB: Oh , shit
FERRYMAN: Buck ! The ferryman rushes forward to help .
KIT: Oh , god !
FERRYMAN: Get away from him !
BUCK: They did it them !
FERRYMAN: Easy Buck it 's OK OK There 's time fo Later easy
CONSTABLE POTTER: Get him to the hospital , Cal ! Take my boat !
MUFFY: What 's going on ? Sam what 's wrong ?
MUFFY: No , he 's in Sutton Place . Why ?
CONSTABLE POTTER: No word from him , or anybody else ?
MUFFY: No He tries the engine . Nothing .
SKIP: These goddamn windows !
SKIP: Sure . He leaves off his banging . Pause .
ROB: What a way to start a weekend , huh .
SKIP: Muffy . Nothing bad ever happens to her .
NAN: Oh ; Muffy Rob pulls the pick-up right behind them .
ARCH: You sound as if you own it .
HARVEY: First stage ? What 's your second ?
CHAZ: Mom , I am home !
ARCH: Yeah , I could get real used to this .
BEAT: This is a very special place to me .
NAN: It 's like a dream .
NIKKI: On a clear day you can see the Kennedys .
CHAZ'S VOICE: Wow , look at this !
NAN: Just like in Agatha Cristie .
ARCH: And sporks
HARVEY: Sporks ?
NIKKI: The old-fashioned way . He inherited it .
NAN: I used to have all her outfits .
CHAZ: Do n't anybody move !
KIT: Muffy !
MUFFY: Add about thirty years .
NIKKI: I do n't believe you , St. John !
KIT: I do n't want to hear about this .
NIKKI: Come on ! 
MUFFY: It was only a weekend . It 's over now . I was curious .
KIT: He was n't married ?
MUFFY: How should I know ?
NIKKI: Come to daddy .
KIT: My goodness , daddy , what big
BREAKING UP: what big teeth you have .
ALL: The better to eat you with , my dear .
NAN: His father 's love .
ARCH: Please , God , let it be ding dongs .
NIKKI: St. John hospitality taken to the extreme .
NAN: You guys ! Everybody laughs .
ROB: I wonder how Buck is doing ?
NAN: Do you think we should call or something ?
MUFFY: I 'll call later .
KIT: I think we should change the subject .
NIKKI: Good choice , Arch .
KIT: Rob knows . He 's going to medical school . Rob looks up from his plate .
ROB: Kit
CHAZ: Hey , no shit ? You got early acceptance ?
ROB: We can talk about it some other time .
ROB: No , I do n't mind .
KIT: Why not ? We 're all friends .
NIKKI: Well , sorta
ROB: He said to forget it .
ROB: He 's right . That 's bullshit on parade .
ARCH: Well fuck you . It sounded good at the time .
CHAZ: What is this ? Dom Perignon sparkling rose ?
HARVEY: It smells like Ripple .
NIKKI: You 've outdone yourself again , St. John .
ARCH: Who was that ?
MUFFY: Skip .
NAN: Can I make a toast ?
ARCH: I cherish all the friends I make .
KIT: Muffy , anything you want to add to that ?
MUFFY: Why me ?
NIKKI: Because you 're the hostess . Muffy thinks for a moment , then adds
GRINNING MISCHIEVOUSLY: April Fool .
NAN: Goodnight .
MUFFY: Goodnight .
NIKKI: Oh , great . Quarantine .
MUFFY: Just holler if you need anything .
NIKKI: Another room .
TURNS: Muffy Muffy turns back to her . NIKKI
NIKKI: I found that out
MUFFY: What about Hal ?
NIKKI ': Harvey ? Mr . Junior Achievement ? Oh please
CHAZ: Wrong room .
ARCH: Jesus
MUFFY: Goodnight .
KIT: G'night .
KIT: Rob ? No answer .
COLLECTS HERSELF: Arch do you know what time it is ?
ARCH: Um-hmm .
MUFFY: Goodnight , Arch .
SKIP: Hello ?
ROB: Muffy ?
CONCERNED: Muffy ?
MUFFY'S VOICE: Yes ?
ROB: You OK ?
MUFFY'S VOICE: Yes Thank you He pulls back from the door .
ROB: OK well , goodnight
KIT: Good morning !
MUFFY: I I was hungry
ARCH: Morning !
MUFFY: I forgot to get dressed
ARCH: Who made her night ?
CHAZ: That depends on what he 's on .
NIKKI: You got ta be kidding
ARCH: Nan ? What about it ? Nan watches from the porch , book in hand .
NAN: Oh , no , thanks .
KIT: Rob ? What 's wrong ? Pause .
ROB: I swear it was n't this cold yesterday . This is n't what she meant , and he knows it .
KIT: Are you giving up ?
ROB: You 've got a great mind
KIT: only it 's not made up .
KIT: It 's made up about one thing though .
ROB: Yeah ? What 's that ? She looks up and kisses him softly .
ARCH: Well , how was it ?
ROB: Where 's Skip ? Anybody seen him ?
NIKKI: Who wants to know ?
CHAZ: Well , if it was Skip
KIT: I saw his face !
ROB: Has anybody seen him since last night ? They all realize they have n't . ROB Jesus Christ Rob turns , rushing into the house .
MUFFY: Something wrong ? Rob rushes by her .
ARCH: Wait ! I 'll go with you !
CHAZ: Me too !
ARCH: Hey , asshole !
CHAZ: Wait a minute ! Look at this !
ARCH: What do you think ? That guy on the ferry ?
ROB: I do n't know . I do n't know what to think .
CHAZ: You mean split up ?
ARCH: No sucker 's taken me yet .
NAN: I know why you 're avoiding me
MUFFY: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
NIKKI: Harvey ? No kidding ' ? Maybe that explains your clothes .
MUFFY: What d'you , mean ?
NIKKI: Oh , c'mon . Muffy exits hurriedly , upset .
LOW ANGLE: ARCH Skip !
ARCH: Skip ?
ARCH: Skip ?
KIT: No Skip ?
CHAZ: No luck .
ROB: Where 's Arch ?
CHAZ: He is n't with you ?
KIT: I think it 's about time we called the police .
KIT: I do n't think we should wait any longer
BEAT: It 'll calm our nerves
KIT: Let me help .
MUFFY: Has he reached the Constable ?
L1UFFY: Oh the main it 's probably broken .
KIT: No water ?
NIKKI: What 's happening .
KIT: No water .
NIKKI: What !
HARVEY: Not without me .
HARVEY: I do n't think you should really do that .
NIKKI: Is that it ? The well is the old-fashioned kind . NIKKI
NIKKI: You mean , back home on the farm ?
NIKKI: Why ?
HARVEY: Because , I 'd really like to plow your field .
SMILES" IMPRESSED: Draw me some water .
HARVEY: Aw , crap
NIKKI: What happened ?
HARVEY: I lost the bucket .
NIKKI: Harve .
NIKKI: You did n't .
NIKKI: ( STARTLED } what
HARVEY: Stay back ! Do n't look !
HARVEY: NIKKI
ROB: What is it ?
KIT: You do n't want to know .
NIKKI: In the well ! Oh , God , the well !
JUMPING DOWN: Let 's go !
HIMSELF UNNERVED: It was an accident . Do n't they know that ?
HARVEY: Muffy , where do you keep your guns ?
MUFFY: Guns ? We do n't keep guns in this house .
NIKKI ,: Oh , God ! Not the water !
MUFFY: It 's all right . It 's Perrier .
ROB: Hello !
POTTER: What are you talking about ?
LISTENS: That ai n't possible .
ROB: Constable ?
LISTENS: Here . She 's all right .
ROB: Yes , all right Please Please hurry . He hangs up . Pause .
CHAZ: What about the ferryman ?
ROB: It is n't him . They 've been together all day .
CHAZ: What ?
KIT: I do n't understand . They look at each other ominously .
ROB: I do n't either .
MOVING AWAY: In the meantime we just wait . He goes out of the living room .
UNNATURALLY COMPOSED: It 's my father 's study .
HARVEY: What 's taking him so long ?
KIT: It could be the tides .
KIT: Rob 's checking the back of the house .
CHAZ: And Muffy ?
NIKKI: She 's been acting less than normal anyway .
KIT: What do you mean ?
NIKKI: You mean all day and you have n't noticed ?
HARVEY: Well , who is n't ?
NIKKI: and those nurse 's shoes .
CHAZ: What nurse 's shoes ?
CHAZ: What ?
HARVEY: Something about an abortion . They all pause .
NIKKI: I found somethin '' g in my room , too
CHAZ: Oh , really ?
HARVEY: And What did you find ?
CHAZ: I did n't find anything .
HARVEY: We 're supposed to believe that ?
CHAZ: That 's right .
TRUMPING HIM: I spent the night with Nikki .
BEAT: What about you ?
HARVEY: What about me ?
CHAZ: What 's your little secret ?
HARVEY: I do n't know What you 're talking about .
CHAZ: Nothing personal in that , I suppose ?
CHAZ: I have n't .
KIT: Stop it ! Just stop it all of you !
MUFFY: I 'm going upstairs .
ROB: Muffy ? We should all stay together .
MUFFY: This is my house .
BEAT: I 'll be in my room . She turns and heads up the stairs . Pause .
NIKKI: She 's got a point .
STANDING: We 're starting to get on each other 's nerves .
NIKKI: You coming ?
ROB: I 'm goinq to find the way up to the attic .
KIT: Why ?
CHAZ: Nikki , come on
CHAZ: What are you doing ?
CHAZ: We 're all supposed to stay together here .
NIKKI: Yeah , that 's been real effective She goes into
NIKKI,: I ca n't stay here any longer .
CHAZ: What if the Constable never even comes ?
CHAZ: Look , just relax
NIKKI: Nice image .
CHAZ: No .
MUFFLED: Look at this . What , me worry ?
NIKKI: Very funny , Chaz .
NIKKI: Do n't be a jerk .
CHAZ: Oh . Now I 'm turning you on . Right ?
NIKKI,: Take that thing off .
CHAZ: Why ? I kind of like it in here . Kiss me , you savage she-devil .
NIKKI: Get out of here .
BEAT: Nikki ?
NIKKI: Real subtle , Chaz .
BEAT: I 'll show you mine if you show me yours ?
NO ANSWER: Say something , goddammit !
KIT: No one 's been up here in years .
ROB: NO . There must not be a light on the boat .
KIT: Or he 's chosen not to use it .
KIT: What ?
KIT: So that 's why you let her go upstairs ?
ROB: That 's why I let her go .
KIT: What did he mean by that ?
ROB: I do n't know . He would n't explain it .
KIT: But that 's ridiculous
ROB: Is it ? He 's known her longer than we have .
KIT: Rob , wait a minute . What 's that ?
ROB: Where ?
KIT: She 's been up here .
ROB: So ?
KIT: Rob ? Rob comes over to join her as we CUT TO
ROB: Jesus
KIT: Rob ? . . .
ROB: It 's Arch and Skip and Nan .
KIT: Rob ? ?
ROB: Wait
KIT: Nikki ? She is n't there .
ROB: I ca n't find Hal
KIT: Rob , what about Muffy ?
ROB: Forget her !
KIT: She 's my friend !
ROB: Let 's go .
KIT: This way ! And they head back toward the main staircase .
ROB: Forget the doors !
KIT: Maybe he went on to the house .
ROB: Shit no key !
KIT: Rob ! He turns . KIT Look !
KIT: How ?
KIT: Oh , no
ROB: We 've got no choice .
KIT: I know .
ROB: Shit .
KIT: Rob ?
ROB: Huh ?
KIT: Rob , I really do n't want to go back there .
ROB: I know .
KIT: Shit .
ROB: I 'd have you stay here , but
KIT: No .
KIT: Okay . He kisses her . Pause .
ROB: Well
KIT: Yeah
ROB: Let 's go .
KIT: Let 's go .
ROB: Let 's go . Brief pause , then he turns to go .
KIT: Rob , look ! The doors . They 've been closed .
ROB: Come on .
KIT: What 's that ? They pause , hearing
KIT: Rob
ROB: I do n't get it .
KIT: Rob !
BEAT: Rob ?
KIT: Rob !
ROB: Pull it away
KIT: Rob ?
ROB: Pull it away !
ROB: The boat key it 's got ta be here
ROB: Kit I
ROB: Kit ! Let me out ! Let me out of here ! Kit ! !
POUNDING FUTILELY: Kit ! Run , Kit , run !
ROB: Kit ! I love you !
ROB: Kit ! I love you ! I love you , Kit !
BUCK: I love you too , babe .
KIT: No Oh , God
ROB: Kit ! !
ROB: Oh , sure . Quite welcome . Any time .
ROB: What clues ?
ROB: And you guys played along ?
ARCH: Do n't look at me !
NIKKI: We all got sucked in just as bad as you !
NIKKI: His name ?
CHAZ: Skip ? !
KIT: He 's your brother ? !
BUCK: Here , catch .
NIKKI: It sure fooled me .
ARCH: So what castle are you going to inherit ?
NIKKI: We have been had .
ROB: You 're lucky you did n't get yourself killed .
CHAZ: Arch ? You browned your trousers ?
BEAT; STAMMERING: Well I
ARCH: Great ham .
BUCK: Great eggs .
CHAZ: Just what we need . Another country inn .
SKIP: Pass the toxic wastes , please . Uncle Frank frowns at Skip as Cal enters .
ROB: Boy , what a difference being alive makes .
KIT: I do n't care what Columbia says about you .
ROB: I do .
KIT: Is this the road to med school ?
ROB: I think it is . I 'm going to try . He takes her by the hand and gazes at her .
KIT: If that 's what you want .
ROB: That 's what I want .
MUFFY: Where 's Nikki ?
KIT: I do n't know . Too much champagne ? o.s . they hear a muffled cry .
UNCLE FRANK: I 've already spoken with him .
ROB: Excuse me . He turns and walks back into the house . O.S . a horn honking .
UNCLE FRANK: Come on ! Let 's go ! Cal is alone behind the wheel of the pickup .
THEY HUG: See you back there .
MUFFY: Nan ! She hurries to catch up with her .
CAL: Aw , it was fun .
CAL: It 's still in the family .
UNCLE FRANK: Yes , that 's the way .
CHAZ: This time , no funny business .
NIKKI: I 'm okay now , thanks . Pause .
CHAZ: Why ? What do we mean to each other anyway ?
NIKKI: More than this a couple of days ago .
NIKKI: Do n't be down .
CHAZ: Sure . Pause .
BEAT: Chaz ? Will you be my boyfriend ?
ROB: Some party , huh ?
SKIP: What 're you talking about ?
NIKKI: When anything g.oes , everything goes .
CHAZ: Yeah .
CHAZ: Yeah , she really got us good .
SKIP: Did I say anything ?
ARCH: Hey
NIKKI: She sure would n't be expecting it !
ROB: Harvey 's right .
CHAZ: Pussies .
ROB: Kit
KIT: ( DECIDEDLYL
CHAZ: All right ! A real catfight !
ROB: I do n't believe you
KIT: So how many does that make us ?
EXCLUDING HIMSELF: Much as I 'd like to
NAN: No , I do n't think so , thank you .
ROB: Four .
CHAZ: Outasight !
KIT: Cal , we want to get back to the island .
FERRYMAN: Now ? You just left
KIT: I know .
FERRYMAN: [ PONDERING ) Well , not in this
MUFFY: H'lo ?
SKIP: Hi , it 's me . Surprise .
MUFFY: What 'd you forget now ?
MUFFY: You 're kidding .
SKIP: Does a bear shit in the woods ?
MUFFY: Those bastards
SKIP: Hey , they 're your friends .
MUFFY: Which ones ?
MUFFY: Skip
SKIP: Rob and Kit and Nikki and Chaz .
MUFFY: Figures Thanks .
SKIP: Yeah
BEAT: Anyway , do n't let the bastards eat you up .
SKIP: I love you , Sis .
MUFFY: You too , goofball . Skip hangs up .
SKIP: I beg your pardon ?
ARCH: It was even your idea .
ARCHLY SARCASTIC: Do n't you know ? Old money sticks together . Arch goes to his car and drives away .
UNCLE FRANK: Sure , sure . Here 's my card .
CHAZ: Oh .
ROB: Swell .
CHAZ: It 's getting late .
ROB: What a great idea this was . They round a bend and stop dead .
NIKKI: ( CALLING } We got one ! Rob and Chaz .
ROB: I thought we looked there an hour ago .
CHAZ: Who cares ? Let 's get this show on the road !
NIKKI: Muffy , hi ! Surprise !
MUFFY: Oh , great . Where is Chaz ? Nikki is already moving into the living room .
NIKKI: Still I 'm beginning to not like this .
NIKKI: The boat ? Oh , Cal gave us one .
MUFFY: I see .
NIKKI: Listen , I need a drink of water .
RISING: You just stay here . I can get it myself .
MUFFY: What about your water ?
NIKKL: Oh ' , uh , I drank 'it in there .
MUFFY: That 's okay . You go . I 'll wait here .
BEAT: Do you want a flashlight ?
NIKKI: No , that 's okay . I 'll be fine . She strides out of the living room .
NIKKI: A lot goddamn , fucking better than I do !
NIKKI ,: Muffy ! Muffy ! Come quick ! It 's Chaz
NIKKI: he 's hurt ! Oh , Godl !
HYSTERICAL: Chaz ! ! Chaz ! !
NIKKI: Chaz , get up ! Hurry , Chaz ! come on ! He does n't move .
CHAZ: Will you quit kicking me ? It hurts .
NIKKI: Muffy IS dead ! ! ! In the house ! ! !
WHIMPERING: Oh , God
CHAZ: What ?
NIKKI: Kit ! Kit , come out !
KIT: What 's going on ?
NIKKI: She 's gone !
KIT: What ?
CHAZ: Look , she 's been dragged away .
NIKKI: Chaz ! somebody 's still in this house !
CHAZ: We could follow the trail .
KIT: Oh , no what about Rob ?
HALF BEAT: Rob ! ! She races out of the study .
KIT: Rob ? They run over to him .
CHAZ: What the fuck is going on here ? !
NIKKI: Chaz , look !
CHAZ: This was Nan 's
NIKKI: Nan
MUFFY: Good job , you guys . I 'm really scared .
LOOKING DOWN: The fun 's over , Rob .
KIT: Muffy , he 's dead !
NIKKI: Somebody else is here ! In this house !
MUFFY: Sure . Sure .
BENDING OVER: Let 's see if the dead are ticklish , shall we ?
KIT: Do n't you touch him ! !
MUFFY: Okay , okay , take it easy .
NIKKI: Muffy , it 's not a game anymore !
MUFFY: What the ?
SKIP: It 's all over , Muffy ! Everything 'll be mine !
MUFFY: Skip ! No ! ! !
DUSSANDER: A boy . I do n't need anything , boy . Ca n't you read ? I thought all American boys could ead . Do n't be a nuisance , now . Good day .
TODD: Do n't forget your paper , Mr. Dussander .
DUSSANDER: Give me my newspaper .
TODD: Sure thing , Mr. Dussander .
DUSSANDER: My name is Denker . See ? Denker . Perhaps you can not read after all . What a pity . Good day .
TODD: Bergen-Belsen , January '43 to June '43 . Auschwitz , June '43 to June '44 . Then you went to Patin . The door stops , still partly open .
DUSSANDER: Listen , boy . I do n't know what is the matte with you . But I do n't have time for this game . Now , get out of here before I call the police .
TODD: Call them if you want .
DUSSANDER: Fine . The heavy door slams shut .
TODD: It 's okay by me Herr Kommandant . I 'm sure the police would love to meet the `` Blood- fiend of Patin . ''
DUSSANDER: You get away from this house , God damn you ! I 'll beat you all the way home .
TODD: After 1965 , no one saw you again Until I did . Three weeks ago on the downtown bus . If you want to call the cops , go right ahead . I'II wait on the steps .
DUSSANDER: You 'll do no such thing .
TODD: I wo n't ? Listen , old man , if I want to start screaming right here , I will . If I want to ide down to the police station and bring the cops back myself , then I will . I will do what ever I want . Do you understand ? But if you like , I could come in for a minute . We could talk . Pause .
DUSSANDER: I 'd be out of my mind to let an insane boy like you into my home . Pause .
TODD: Tell me , was n't it Ilse Koch who made the lampshades out of human skin ?
DUSSANDER: Now I do n't know what you 're talking about .
TODD: Sure you do , Mr. Dussander .
DUSSANDER: Denker . Denker . Denker . You do n't listen , oy . The television has fried your brain . Pause .
TODD: Your hands are shaking .
DUSSANDER: Yes , they 're shaking . I 'm old . We all shake . You are most tiresome , and rude . Now if you have a point I wish you 'd come to it .
TODD: We 're in no rush . If I thought you had plans , I 'd say cancel them , but since I know you do n't
DUSSANDER: You know nothing of my business
TODD: What business ? You sit in that ugly chai and watch soap operas all day . Except on Friday afternoons when you walk down to the movie theater . And twice a week you take the us downtown to do your shopping . You always use the express lane because you never have more than ten items .
DUSSANDER: You have been following me ?
TODD: Of course , I followed you . You think I normally go around to peoples ' houses and accuse them of being Nazi fugitives ?
DUSSANDER: Perhaps for me you made an exception .
TODD: No , for you I had to be sure . For Kurt Dussander I had to be absolutely certain . Now , I am , and that 's why I 'm here . Todd sits on the sofa .
DUSSANDER: Oh , yes , I see now . As I am this ex-Nazi fellow , as you say , then this must be the part where I offer you my hidden stash of gold , taken from the mouths of old Jewish men , of course , which I keep buried in the asement . Is n't that right , boy ? Well , I 'm afraid you 're wasting your time . I have no money . If I did I might even give you some just to be done with this nonsense .
TODD: I do n't need money . You do n't have any anyway . At least , I do n't think so . You probably had to spend it all to sneak in the country . A good American passport is expensive on the black market , that I know .
DUSSANDER: Do you ? Good for you .
TODD: Yes , I do . I know it all , Dussander . You 're my One Great Interest .
DUSSANDER: Your what ?
TODD: My One Great Interest . Well , not you personally , but , well , it 's something I learned back in eighth grade . Our teacher , Miss Harmon , she said we 'd have to find ou One Great Interest in life . You know , the thing that would really grab us . Once we did that , everything would fall into place . Like hers , she said , was n't teaching , but collecting nineteenth-century postcards . I guess there 's no money in that , so she has to e a teacher . Anyway , she told us to start thinking about it . So I did , but nothing happened . Until the following summer , in Ronny Pegler 's garage . That 's where I found it .
TODD: Hang on a sec .
DUSSANDER: Yes , what are you telling me for ?
TODD: Then last year I wrote my big term paper on Dachau . I got an A+ . It was the only A+ she gave . I mean I always do real well . A 's on everything . That 's why I 'm accelerated .
DUSSANDER: Accelerated ?
TODD: You know , accelerated . I skipped two grades , second and ninth . I did n't need them . That 's why I 'm already a junior . Dussander sits .
DUSSANDER: I see
TODD: Some kids resent me for it . That 's not important . Anyway , my paper really floored my history teacher . I guess because I got through all those books without throwing up . But I learned something . I learned that when you talk about the camps now , you have to emember to sound really disgusted . I mean , you ca n't just say what happened like the magazines did and leave it at that . If I tried that the teacher would have freaked and called my parents in .
RONNY: Todd , your mom 's on the phone . She says you have to come home for dinner . Todd ?
TODD: What ?
RONNY: Your mom 's on the phone . ANGLE on Todd .
TODD: Nowadays you have to soften it .
DUSSANDER: Why do I care about this ?
TODD: Because , I do n't want it softened .
DUSSANDER: I am sure you trouble your parents to no end .
TODD: Actually , I 'm pretty low maintenance . That 's what my dad says .
DUSSANDER: You told your parents about me , then ?
TODD: You think I 'm crazy ?
DUSSANDER: I think you 're crackers , but go on . I 'm iveted .
TODD: And then it happened I was on my way to the library . It was raining u > FLASHBACK INT . CITY BUS - DAY
DUSSANDER: All of this because of a rain coat ?
DUSSANDER: You took photographs of me ?
TODD: Yeah , I got this little camera . Fits right in the palm of my hand .
DUSSANDER: Clever boy .
TODD: But even then I could n't be sure . I needed eal proof . So I went to the mall and bought a fingerprint kit from the hobby shop and a ook that tells you what you 're supposed to look for and then dusted your mailbox while you were at the movies . Pretty smart , huh ?
DUSSANDER: You put dust on my mailbox ? Fo fingerprints ? You took photographs of me ? What else did you do ? I do n't believe any of this .
TODD: I already had a copy of your fingerprints . They 're on your want sheet from the Israeli government . It 's on database at UC Irvine . Can you believe that ?
DUSSANDER: Bourbon . He storms toward the kitchen and stops .
TODD: Sure , you got a Coke ?
DUSSANDER: No Kok .
TODD: Milk ?
DUSSANDER: Milk .
TODD: It takes eight good matches , they 're called compares , actually , for a fingerprint to get accepted in court .
DUSSANDER: Good Gott . He snatches the cup and swallows twice .
TODD: A violation ?
DUSSANDER: Yes .
TODD: Kind of like those experiments with the decompression chamber . Now , that was a violation , Dussander .
DUSSANDER: That fucking name . Enough of that . I demand it .
TODD: You what ?
DUSSANDER: I demand
TODD: You demand nothing from me . Ever . Get it ? Pause .
DUSSANDER: Boy , I will tell you this once more , and fo the last time . My name is Arthur Denker . It has never been anything else . It has neve even been Americanized . If you must know , and apparently you must , I was named by my father who greatly admired the stories of Arthur Conan Doyle . I did serve in the eserves , I admit , and in the late thirties , when I was first married , I supported Hitler . I supported him most , I suppose , because fo the first time in years there was work and there was tobacco . Would you like a cigarette ?
TODD: No . My dad used to smoke . Mom made him quit . Now he 's addicted to Nicorette that 's nicotine gum .
DUSSANDER: Nicotine gum .
TODD: That was pretty good . So much to remember . But I guess it helps when you have forty years to practice your story .
DUSSANDER: Oh , to hell with this and to hell with you . I 'm calling the police . Your father is going to beat your behind when he picks you up at the police station .
TODD: No . My parents do n't believe in violence .
DUSSANDER: Well , they should start . I 'm calling .
TODD: Hang up the phone .
DUSSANDER: This is unforgivable . Do you know the things you 're accusing me of ?
TODD: Do it .
DUSSANDER: If you do n't want money , what do you want ?
TODD: I want to hear about it .
DUSSANDER: Hear about what ?
TODD: The camps . Everything . The experiments . The examinations . All the stuff the writers are scared to put in their books because people will think they 're sick . That 's what I want , everything .
DUSSANDER: Everything ?
TODD: Exactly . And you 're going to tell it to me .
DUSSANDER: You 're a monster .
TODD: According to history you 're the monster .
DUSSANDER: How could you ask me to remember such things ? I can barely remember to take my heart medicine .
TODD: You were there . You did those things . No one can tell it better than you can . And you will tell it , starting today . Right now . If you do n't , I 'll tell everyone who you are . I swear it .
DUSSANDER: Why should I ? Why should I do any of it ?
TODD: Because you hung up the phone . That 's why . And just so you know , just so there is no misunderstanding whatsoever . Everything I have on you , the compares , the want sheet , all the photographs , are all in an envelope under my mattress . I 'm going to put it there every time I come to see you . If anything happens to me , if I should suddenly disappear , some one will find it . Believe me
DUSSANDER: That 's a foolish thing to do . What if you mother goes in your room anyway ? What if she hires a maid ?
TODD: You better hope she does n't . We 're wasting time . Let 's get started . I have to be home for dinner . Today I want to hear about the ovens . How you baked them after they were dead and before . Pause .
DUSSANDER: A boy a boy
TODD: But before we start , put your teeth in . You look better with your teeth .
PROXMIRE: But in 1902 , Panama did n't exist . The country we know as Panama was part of Columbia .
JOEY: Take it easy , Jesus . It 's just me , flinch- man .
TODD: Do n't do that .
JOEY: I got news for you . You 're gon na like it .
TODD: Walk with me to French . The two walk down the corridor .
JOEY: Someone likes you . Someone good .
TODD: Who ?
JOEY: Well , I heard my sister talking on the phone with Lisa Herman , and well
TODD: You going to tell me who it is ? Two CHEERLEADERS pass them .
JOEY: You did n't hear it from me .
TODD: Fine .
JOEY: Becky Trask .
TODD: Was that so hard ?
JOEY: So ask her out and the weekend after next you can double with me and Vanessa .
TODD: What about this weekend ?
JOEY: I 'm already planning on being grounded .
TODD: Grounded ? What for ?
JOEY: Where the hell you been ? Report cards were sent out today . I know that never affects you
TODD: I 've never seen anyone drink bourbon with McDonald 's before . So , How did the stuff get to Patin ?
DUSSANDER: In railroad cars marked `` Medical Supplies . ''
TODD: That 's fitting . Was it always Zyklon-B ?
DUSSANDER: No , from time to time we would be sent something else . Experimental gases . The High Command was always interested in improving efficiency . Once they sent us a gas code-named `` Pegasus . '' A nerve gas . Thank God they never sent it again . It Todd sits up a little , leaning in .
TODD: It what ?
TODD: Bullshit . You 're lying . What did it do ?
DUSSANDER: It killed them . What do you think it did , made them walk on water ? It killed them .
TODD: Tell me . Tell me .
DUSSANDER: I wo n't . I refuse . Where are my cigarettes ?
TODD: What did it do ?
DUSSANDER: It made them dance .
TODD: Dance ?
DUSSANDER: Like Zyklon-B , it came in through the showe heads . After a few seconds the prisoners egan to leap about . Some were screaming . Most of them were laughing . They began to vomit and to to defecate helplessly .
TODD: You mean they they shit themselves ? Woah .
DUSSANDER: They began to twitch all over and make high , strange sounds in their throats . At last they collapsed and just lay there on the concrete , twitching and yodeling , with blood streaming from their noses . But I lied to you , boy . It did n't kill them . Eithe ecause it was n't strong enough or because we could n't bring ourselves to wait that long . I suppose it was that . I sent five men in with rifles to end their agonies . These were five men I trusted . It would have looked bad on my record to have wasted so many cartridges at a time when the Fuehrer had declared every cartridge a national resource . I was always given high marks for efficiency .
TODD: Yeah , I bet .
DUSSANDER: How do you eat this crap everyday ?
TODD: Why did n't you just do the job yourself ? You carried a gun , did n't you ?
DUSSANDER: I was the commandant of the camp .
TODD: So you never killed anybody ?
TODD: That 's not a real answer . I 'm asking about i > you .
DUSSANDER: Boy , I was a soldier in a position of power . You do n't get to be there by selling girl scout 's cookies .
TODD: I know what the SS was , Dussander . Who are you talking to ? It was a bunch of dumb , rich kids who bought their way into the service so they would n't have to go fight on the front .
DUSSANDER: That 's enough for today , boy . I beg you . I 'm tired .
TODD: Yeah , fine . That was good story though . You
TODD: Forget it . I ca n't concentrate .
DICK: I know your upset . So am I . So is you mother .
TODD: These honors classes they are n't as easy as I thought they 'd be . I totally admit it , I did n't prepare enough . I 'm sorry .
DICK: Well , fine , but now is not the time to slack
TODD: Nobody wants that more than I do , Dad .
DICK: Well you have n't been hitting the books very much .
TODD: I know
DICK: And seeing as you 're not playing soccer this year it 's not like you do n't have enough time
TODD: That still bothers you , does n't it ?
DICK: No , son . If you were n't enjoying it , then you should n't play .
TODD: I think it bothers you and you 're not telling me .
DICK: That was lousy . Here . I want to see your grades come up , buddy . That 's all that bothers me . And if you say you need more time to study , then that 's what we 'll do . The first thing is to cut out all the time you spend reading to Mr. Denker . It 's a nice thing to do , but it 's not helping our school work a bit .
TODD: Yeah no . Dad , do n't do that . Please . Do n't punish Mr. Denker for something that 's my fault . I mean , he 'd be lost without me
DICK: He 'll be fine without you . He was fine before and he 'll be fine after . There 's nothing wrong with wanting to help people , but you got ta make sure you got yourself squared away first . That 's what matters .
TODD: Dad , am I like other kids ?
DICK: Not by a long shot .
TODD: Then trust me on this . Do n't lose faith in
DICK: Did you practice that in front of a mirror o something ?
TODD: No .
DICK: Just checking . All right We 'll give your way a shot . If you think you can do it , if you really do , and your serious , then okay . You really like the old guy , do n't you ?
TODD: I 'm making a difference in somebody 's life . It 's that simple .
DICK: Okay , okay . Do n't ever force it . Watch . Dick begins to methodically unjam the gun .
DUSSANDER: You do n't have to do that , you know .
TODD: Screw you . I 'm doing this for me . This place is freezing .
DUSSANDER: Yes , it must be fifty degrees outside . I 'm
TODD: Why did n't you pay your gas bill ?
DUSSANDER: It slipped my mind . I will attend to it tomorrow .
TODD: Slipped your mind . I noticed it did n't slip your mind to stock up on a new case of ourbon .
DUSSANDER: Leave me alone .
TODD: All right , so finish your story , because I 'm still not clear . You cook up this stew , and you bring the prisoner in , and you let them smell it , and suddenly they tell you everything ?
DUSSANDER: Oh , do n't misunderstand me . Certainly with a pistol pressed to their head , a prisone would tell us everything we wanted to know , sometimes more . But mine was a much more elegant method . Remember , it had been months since they had smelled real potatoes simmering over an open flame , and boy , when that delicious odor hit their noses thei mouths would drop and out would pour an account of every minor infraction thei friends had committed , I mean it was magnificent
TODD: And you let them eat the soup ?
DUSSANDER: Oh , we never promised them the soup in exchange for information . We never mentioned it at all . Pause . Todd is impressed .
TODD: Wow , that 's really good , Dussander . I mean that 's i > that 's thinking .
DUSSANDER: But , as the war pressed on , the time fo such civilized measures became a luxury . I emember by April of '45 , we had barely enough food to feed ourselves . The sound of the Russian mortars grew louder everyday , but still , the train cars from France and Poland kept coming . This was a time of desperation .
BECKY: Is everything all right ?
TODD: Yeah , I 'm fine . Becky smiles to herself , unconvinced .
BECKY: You 're nervous . I think it 's sweet .
TODD: No No , I 'm cool .
BECKY: Do you want me to do something else ?
DUSSANDER: Here kitty-kitty . Here kitty-kitty .
TODD: I 'm sorry .
BECKY: It 's all right . Maybe you 'll be more in the mood later .
TODD: I do n't know . That 's never happened before .
BECKY: Maybe you do n't like me .
TODD: No , I do .
BECKY: Maybe you do n't like girls .
TODD: Let 's just go home .
DUSSANDER: Oww , you mother-fucker .
MONICA: Todd loved that dog . A lot more than Dick did .
DICK: We all loved that dog .
AGNES: I remember when you had to put it down , Todd cried for two weeks . Just about broke my heart .
DUSSANDER: Excuse , me , Mrs. Bowden . Put it down ? I 've een here over twenty years but that 's a new one .
VICTOR: Means put it to sleep , Victor .
MONICA: It 's very humane .
DUSSANDER: I see .
MONICA: Some more pie ?
DUSSANDER: As my departed wife used to say , 'One must never overdo the sublime . '
AGNES: It was delicious , Monica .
VICTOR: Tell me , Arthur , if you do n't mind me asking . What did you do during the war ?
AGNES: Now do n't get too personal , Victor . A quick moment between Todd and Dussander .
DUSSANDER: I was a student at the University until my eserve unit was called in 1943 . But we were not a combat unit , thank God . Mechanical engineers . Help me find my cigarettes , Todd . Would you ? In those days , not even the call of higher learning could exempt an able body from military service .
MONICA: Todd Bowden !
DUSSANDER: My dear , I do apologize . My hands are too arthritic to strike a match , I 'm afraid . Your son has been good enough to help an old man with his filthy habits .
MONICA: Wellas long as you do n't inhale .
TODD: Cigarettes are gross , Mom .
VICTOR: Well , Victor , you were doing your part like we all were , I suppose . Of course , if you were in the Pacific Fleet I 'd have to shoot you . Everyone laughs , except Todd .
DICK: My dad is very proud of the fact that the Bowden men have hit every major conflict since the Civil War .
VICTOR: That 's right . Dickie served two tours in Vietnam . Earned a bronze star and a purple heart .
DICK: It 's one family tradition I 'd like to put an end to . Todd and I blow a few caps down at the range every week . That 's all the combat he needs .
TODD: What 's that supposed to mean ?
DICK: Forget it .
DUSSANDER: Perhaps your son would excel in combat .
MONICA: Todd could excel at anything . Right , honey ?
AGNES: Oh , let 's do n't even talk about this . I ca n't stand to think of you boys fighting anothe war .
DUSSANDER: The Purple Heart . You were injured ?
TODD: He was knocked unconscious and woke up in a hospital .
DICK: Mom , let me get that for you .
DUSSANDER: You should n't be so hard on your father .
TODD: Why do n't you mind your own business .
DUSSANDER: Boy , It 's not so easy to raise children . You father does the best he can , I 'm sure . Having his own father there is bound to cause some anxiety on his part
TODD: Oh , give me a frigging break , will you ? Look who 's talking to me , for Christ 's sake . And what was that crap about the dog ? If you were any more charming I was going to puke .
DUSSANDER: Heavens , boy , was n't that precisely the
TODD: Our advantage ? Our advantage ?
DUSSANDER: Certainly now they will offer no objections if you continue to come over and read to me .
TODD: You sure take a lot for granted . Do you think there 's anybody forcing me to come ove to your scuzzy house and watch you slop up ooze all day ? Do you ?
DUSSANDER: Lower your voice . People will hear .
TODD: So what ? Dussander stops .
DUSSANDER: No , nobody forces you to come . In fact , you are welcome to stay away . Believe me , boy , I have no scruples about drinking alone . None at all .
TODD: You know , if they found out what you are , they 'd spit on you .
DUSSANDER: I am sure they would have nothing but evulsion for me . But what would they say about you , boy , when I told them you had known about me for nine months and said nothing ? Dussander unlocks his door and steps in .
TODD: Go ahead , open it . Wait , I better pull down the shades , first .
DUSSANDER: What for ?
TODD: Just to be safe .
DUSSANDER: To hell with this . You open it .
TODD: Oh , relax , old man . Sit down and open it .
DUSSANDER: You wrapped it yourself , I see .
TODD: Merry Christmas !
DUSSANDER: Pete 's Quality Costume Clothiers - Serving You Since 1976 .
TODD: Go ahead , try it on .
DUSSANDER: Are you out of your mind , boy ? What makes you think I would put something like that on ?
TODD: I thought you 'd like it
DUSSANDER: Like it ? My God , you 're a bigger fool than I thought . Maybe I 'll put it on and do a little shopping downtown . Is that what you thought ? You stupid , boy .
TODD: Do n't call me stupid .
TODD: That 's enough . You do n't get to talk to me like that . Dussander bangs the table .
DUSSANDER: I should smash you .
TODD: Do it . Please . Indignities ? What you 've suffered with me is nothing compared to what the Israelis would do to you . Remember what happened to Eichmann ? You forget that , I think . And , you know , that 's my fault . I have let you forget . You have gotten comfortable with this situation . Well , do n't you for one minute ever forget who holds the cards here . Do n't you ever forget that envelope under my mattress . I tried to do this the nice way , I tried to do something to please you , but you do n't want it . So fine , we 'll do it the hard way . You will put this on because I want to see you in it . Now strip .
DUSSANDER: I hope you go to hell
TODD: That suit cost me over eighty bucks with the boots .
DUSSANDER: And this material what ? Polyester ?
TODD: Quiet . Straighten that hat . Dussander ignores him .
DUSSANDER: Good Gott . Dussander does what he is told .
TODD: Actung ! < /i Slowly Dussander straightens up .
DUSSANDER: Boy be careful . You play with fire .
JOEY: So what are you going to do ?
TODD: Fuck if I know . Todd throws up a clumsy shot . It misses .
JOEY: You 're throwing it flat . Let it roll off your fingers more .
TODD: I do n't need a lesson .
JOEY: Your dad , man . I do n't know . I mean , I 'm a fuck up . My dad is used to this crap from me .
TODD: What ?
JOEY: You said something ?
TODD: No .
JOEY: You 're talking to yourself , Bowden . It 's not the first time I 've noticed it . What is going on with you ?
TODD: Nothing , Joey . I fucked up . I'II fix it . I'II fix it .
JOEY: All right , man . Whatever you say . Look , I got to get to practice . No response from Todd .
TODD: You 're talking to yourself , Bowden . You 're talking to yourself , Bowden . He throws up a shot . It is good .
TODD: Something 's come up . Sit down .
DUSSANDER: I see . What seems to be the trouble ?
TODD: This is n't a joke , Dussander . I ca n't blame this on teachers or honors classes anymore .
DUSSANDER: Looks like you have a problem then .
TODD: I have a problem ? You still do n't get it . I 'm out of excuses . Do you know what 's going to happen when my dad sees that ? He 's going to hit the fucking roof . He 'll get it all out of me . The truth , youeverything .
DUSSANDER: Boy , it 's not my fault your grades have fallen .
TODD: Do n't be so sure .
DUSSANDER: Please , you do n't spend that much time here . I hardly think
TODD: I ca n't study anymore .
DUSSANDER: 'Dear Mr. and Mrs. Bowden , this note is to suggest that we have a group conference concerning Todd 's first semester grades . In light of his previous good work in this school , the sudden deterioration in his grades suggest a specific problem which should be addressed before his academic advancement is jeopardized permanently . Such a problem can often be solved by a frank and open discussion . I am ready to work out a time for us to meet . In a case such as this , earlier is usually better . Sincerely yours , Edward French . ' Who is this Edward French , the headmaster ?
TODD: French ? Fuck no . He 's a stupid guidance counselor .
DUSSANDER: Guidance counselor ? What is that ?
TODD: He guides and he counsels . You read the fucking note . Do you realize I could have to go to summer school ? Me , in there with all those fuck-ups . I do not want to go to summer school .
DUSSANDER: Or to the reformatory .
TODD: What did you say ?
DUSSANDER: Boy , you have a far greater problem than
TODD: They 'd never believe you .
DUSSANDER: Perhaps , perhaps not . It 's a gamble . How would you explain all those books you were eading to me ? My eyes are not what they were but I can still read fine print . I can prove it .
TODD: So what ? I 'd say you tricked me .
DUSSANDER: Why would I do that ?
TODD: For friendship , because you 're lonely and had no one in your life . No jury would take you word over mine . A Nazi ? Forget it . Just get it out of your head . You ca n't threaten me and you ca n't scare me . What you can do is find me a pencil .
DUSSANDER: A pencil , what for ?
TODD: That will take care of the report card , I think . About that fucking letter , I do n't know .
DUSSANDER: Will this do ?
TODD: Him ? Fuck , no . They would n't mix with a geek like him .
DUSSANDER: How about professionally ? Has he ever called them before ?
TODD: No . I 've never needed it . Why ?
DUSSANDER: I have an idea . It will require you to make one phone call .
FRENCH: Mr. Bowden ?
DUSSANDER: Mr. French , a pleasure .
FRENCH: To you , sir , I 'm sure they seem quite out of the ordinary . But when it is your job to get confused sixteen year-olds to open up to you , you take whatever steps you need . Please have a seat . They both sit .
DUSSANDER: And the shoes work ?
FRENCH: They seem to help , believe it or not . Well , I thank you for coming down , Mr. Bowden , but I 'll be frank with you
DUSSANDER: Yes , please do .
FRENCH: The fact that you 're here and not Todd 's parents tells me a great deal .
DUSSANDER: I 'm sure . My son and his wife asked me to come in and discuss this sorry business with
FRENCH: It 's all right . There 's no smoking on school grounds , but if it will make you more comfortable , I 'll neve tell .
DUSSANDER: A terrible habit , but thank you . I suppose I should begin by informing you that my son and my daughter-in-law are having troubles at home . Rather bad troubles , I should think .
FRENCH: I appreciate your candor .
DUSSANDER: The mother drinks .
FRENCH: Oh .
DUSSANDER: Yes . The boy has told me that he has come home on two occasions and has found he sprawled out on the kitchen table . He knows how my son feels about her drinking and so on these occasions he has put dinner in the oven himself and forced enough black coffee down his mother 's throat so that she will at least e awake when Richard gets home .
FRENCH: That 's bad . Has Mrs. Bowden thought about getting professional help for her problem ?
DUSSANDER: The boy has tried to persuade her , but she is far too ashamed , I think . If she was given a little time You understand ?
FRENCH: Of course . Your son Todd 's father
DUSSANDER: He is not without blame , believe me . The hours he works . The meals he has missed . They take a toll on a family . I was raised to believe that a man 's family came before his work or anything else . I tried to teach my son that but
FRENCH: There 's only so much we can teach our kids , Mr. Bowden . What about Monica 's mother o father ? Could n't they talk to her ?
DUSSANDER: Her mother , Sabrina , lives in a nursing home in Florida . I 'm afraid after her husband died she lost her will to live .
FRENCH: Probably not the best person for Monica to speak to .
DUSSANDER: Indeed .
FRENCH: Mr. Bowden , I do n't have to remind you , I 'm sure , of Todd 's stellar academic record . National Merit Scholar finalist , Academic All-Stars .
DUSSANDER: Yes . I keep his certificates on the wall of my store . I run a small bookstore in San Remo . A hint of skepticism crosses French 's eyes .
FRENCH: Yes , I see that . Anyway , Todd is , and I hate to phrase it this way , but he 's one of the ones worth fighting for . He 's a special kid , we both know that . But If Todd 's grades do n't improve drastically and quickly he 'll be opening a real nasty can of worms . Summer school would just be the beginning . His whole college acceptance schedule would e thrown way off course . The good schools wo n't know what to make of him . I 'm sure he 'd hate that and so would you .
DUSSANDER: Of course .
FRENCH: So let 's get to the bottom line , shall we ? What I 'm proposing is some family counselling at the Counselling Center downtown . Everything is in confidence , of course . A man in charge down there , Harry Shumacher , is a good friend of mine . I think Todd and his parents should go see him together . It might e difficult for Todd to go to his parents with this ; I think you should do it . Maybe we can get everybody on track by the end of the next quarter . It will be tough , but not impossible .
DUSSANDER: I 'm not sure that would be the best thing fo the boy . The parents might resent him if I took them that proposal right now . Things are very delicate . To swing the scale too far in the wrong direction might cause more harm than good . The boy has promised to work harder in his studies . He is most concerned y the drop in his grades , more alarmed than you might expect . He has his mind set on attending Stanford or Berkeley next fall and does not wish to see his plans altered .
FRENCH: Yes , well
DUSSANDER: Also , the parents would resent me . Monica already thinks I meddle too much in he affairs .
FRENCH: I have a great deal of experience in these matters , Mr. Bowden . And please understand that my interest in your son 's marital problems begins and ends with the effect they are having on Todd . And right now I think they are having quite an effect . I really think counselling is in order here .
DUSSANDER: Allow me to make a counter proposal . You have , I believe , a system for warning parents of poor grades ?
FRENCH: Yes , Interpretation of Progress cards . IOP cards . The kids call them flunk card . They only get them when their grades in a class fall below the seventy percent . That means a `` D '' or an `` F '' . Why ?
DUSSANDER: And they are sent out when ?
FRENCH: Mid-quarter . That 's about three weeks into the new marking period .
DUSSANDER: Allowing for Christmas break , the next time they are sent out will be in late January , correct ?
FRENCH: Yes , that 's right .
DUSSANDER: Good . Then what I suggest is this
TODD: You what ?
DUSSANDER: I told him you were getting back on track by your own accord . I gave him my word . If you get even one flunk card
TODD: Are you out of your fucking mind ? I 'm going to get three or four flunk cards . I failed an economics test today , so there 's anothe one .
DUSSANDER: Boy , it was the best I could do without arousing suspicion .
TODD: I could have done better myself
DUSSANDER: Well you did n't , did you ? This is the way it is and now you are upset because the only way you can make things right is to work .
DUSSANDER: It can . And it will . You will work .
TODD: I do n't take orders from you . Maybe you 've forgotten
DUSSANDER: Listen , boy . Before today it was possible , just barely possible , that you could have denounced me and come out clean yourself . The way your nerves have been lately I do n't think so , but never mind that . It was - at least technically possible . But now things have changed . Today I impersonated you grandfather , one Victor Bowden . And it was you who arranged the meeting . What would people make of that ? If things come out now perhaps you were right , your age and a good attorney might keep you out of jail , but you would be humiliated , boy , publicly . You would be infamous . Your parents too . Do you know what such a scandal would do to them ? To you ? Think about that .
TODD: You fucker .
DUSSANDER: It 's a done deal , boy . If you do n't like it , you can discuss it at family counselling .
TODD: God ! I wish I wish
DUSSANDER: Never mind your wishes . Your wishes make me sick . All I want to hear is that you understand the situation .
TODD: Look , you got ta believe me . There is no way in hell that I can pull myself out of a half year slide in a couple of weeks . I wish I could , but we 're just going to have to think of something else .
DUSSANDER: Boy , the time for discussion is over . This is the way it is . You are going to work . And I am going to be right here with you .
TODD: What are you talking about ?
ARCHIE: That case maybe you could loan me a dollar . Help out a Vietnam vet ? How 'bout it ?
TODD: I I do n't know I do n't think so .
ARCHIE: C'mon , you got something for me . I know you do .
TODD: Well , maybe I have to check .
ARCHIE: See , I got to get up to L.A. Got a jo waiting for me up there .
TODD: I thought I did have a couple of quarters
ARCHIE: You know , For a dollar I 'll give you a blow job . Take you right up there where it 's still dry . You never had so good , kid . You 'll come you ains out .
PROXMIRE: Our illustrious administration , in its quest to make my job as difficult as possible , has decided that home room teachers are now esponsible for handing IOP cards for all your classes . So for those of you getting flunk cards , you 'll find them attached to last week 's exam .
DUSSANDER: Well , this calls for a celebration , no ?
TODD: Look , I guess I owe a lot of this to you . I 'm not proud of it , but it 's true .
DUSSANDER: Your gratitude humbles me . How about some Ritz crackers and Velveeta ?
TODD: Sure , what the hell .
DUSSANDER: I would have expected you to be doing back flips down the hallway after such good news . You are so quiet . Todd does not respond .
TODD: I do n't care . Whatever you want .
DUSSANDER: Let 's see . I could tell you about the special soap we made . Or there is always the story of how I escaped from Berlin after I was foolish enough to go back . That was a close one , I promise you .
TODD: Anything , really .
DUSSANDER: No , none of these I think . You do n't seem to e in the mood .
TODD: Then what ?
DUSSANDER: Then the box is opened in the presence of a ank official and a representative of the Internal Revenue Service . The contents of the box are inventoried . In this case they will find only a twelve-page document . Non- taxable but highly interesting .
TODD: You ca n't you ca n't do that .
DUSSANDER: My boy , it is already done .
TODD: But Christ ! Look at you . You could go at any time .
DUSSANDER: But there is . As the years go by , as I get closer to the grave , your hold on me will ecome worth less and less . A man five , ten years older than I worries more about his ailing heart than being extradited to Israel . And there will come a day - if I live long enough - when I decide what you know no longer matters . Then , and only then , I will destroy my document .
TODD: But but so many things can happen to you in between . Accidents . Sickness . You could slip in the shower , for Christ 's sake
DUSSANDER: Que sera , sera Whatever will be , will e The future 's not ours to see Que sera , sera
TODD: You know this means we 're through . You wo n't e seeing me around here anymore .
DUSSANDER: No , I suppose I wo n't .
TODD: I 'm never coming here again .
DUSSANDER: And so it comes to an end . Here .
TODD: What are you doing ?
DUSSANDER: A drink . To our lives together , the eginning and the end . Todd picks up his glass .
TODD: I think you should fuck yourself . He CLICKS his glass against Dussander 's .
DUSSANDER: My boy , do n't you see that we are fucking each other ? He drinks . Todd , reluctantly , does the same .
ARCHIE: I notice the kid do n't come around no more .
DUSSANDER: What ?
ARCHIE: Little blond-hair boy . What 's the matter , you ai n't his friend no more ?
DUSSANDER: You mistake me for somebody else . Pardon me , my bus is coming .
ARCHIE: Damn Cuban high heels . Nice ones , too .
SECRETARY: Go in , Todd . They 're waiting for you .
MORGAN: Have a seat , Todd . Todd does as Morgan pours over Todd 's files .
FRENCH: A good break for you , Todd .
MORGAN: Looks like that little talk with your grandfather really helped . Well , we do n't want to keep you too long . You tell him .
FRENCH: Well , it seems Sally Chong did n't do to well in A.P . biology .
MORGAN: She failed it .
FRENCH: I 'm afraid so . She refused to take part in the fetal pig dissection . The teacher begged her to drop the class , but Sally thought she could pass anyway .
MORGAN: Stubborn girl What we 're telling you , son , is that because Sally Chang -
FRENCH: Chong .
MORGAN: Because Sally Chong would n't hack up a baby pig , you snuck by her in the rankings . So if you can keep your grades up for two more months any reason that should n't happen ?
TODD: No .
MORGAN: Then you 'll make valedictorian , Todd . Congratulations .
FRENCH: Congratulations , Todd .
TODD: Thanks , I guess . He starts to walk away .
FRENCH: I was glad to hear you made varsity baseball . I spoke to the coach . He says your coming along real well .
TODD: Thanks .
FRENCH: It 's turning out to be a good year for you .
TODD: Yeah . He turns to go , but French stops him again .
FRENCH: Todd , wait .
TODD: I am . French 's looks says , `` No , you 're not . ''
FRENCH: How are things at home ?
TODD: Look , things with my parents were bad for a while . But they 're doing a lot better . Thanks for your concern , really . I should get back to class . He is pulling away from French as he speaks .
FRENCH: Okay , Todd . I know this is n't the place to
TODD: I know . Thanks . Todd walks away .
FRENCH: And it 's going to stay open .
JOEY: Hey there .
TODD: Hey .
JOEY: I ah , I heard about Stanford . I heard a couple of weeks ago actually . Congrats .
TODD: Thanks .
JOEY: I got into school to . Long Beach . It 's no Stanford , but
TODD: No , no that 's good , Joe .
JOEY: Well , I just wanted to say hi . Here let me get that .
TODD: You busy now ?
JOEY: Uhh
TODD: Come with me . Hop on .
JOEY: Hop on ? I have a car now , Todd .
TODD: You ca n't drive where we 're going .
JOEY: This is so cool .
TODD: Point it over here . That 's the middle school . You can see right into our old class oom .
JOEY: Oh yeah But I still do n't see what you need the rest of it for . Does n't your Dad notice ?
TODD: He has n't yet .
JOEY: Yet ? Jesus , Todd .
TODD: And over here , that 's your dad 's office . And there 's the old drive-in .
JOEY: Here . Take it .
TODD: It 's such a rush , you know ? To be up here . Do n't you feel it ? So high above them they never know we 're here . It 's like an ant farm . We 're the gods on Mt . Olympus , Joey . They ca n't see us , they ca n't hear us , but every so often we can make them feel us . Just so they never forget . Look
JOEY: Todd , I 'm gon na go . I 'm gon na walk home .
ARCHIE: I can do that . I can help you carry those . Dussander jumps back . Archie stops .
DUSSANDER: I do n't need any help . Excuse me . He starts off again . Archie follows .
ARCHIE: Hey , I ai n't a bad guy . You do n't got ta worry . I 'm a veteran . I just want
ARCHIE: You got a nice face .
DUSSANDER: No I do n't .
ARCHIE: Look , we 're practically neighbors . I stay ight over there most nights . I see you walking down the street . I come up
DUSSANDER: Piss off .
ARCHIE: Ai n't no reason to be rude . You see , I know something about you . I know your a nice guy . I 'm nice too , just like the kid .
DUSSANDER: I see .
ARCHIE: And I know you got some bourbon in these ags . I ai n't ashamed to say I could use a
DUSSANDER: A drink .
ARCHIE: That 's what I 'm saying . Long pause .
DUSSANDER: You smell like a toilet .
ARCHIE: Maybe you let me use your shower . But first
DUSSANDER: Let me take those . Right this way .
MONICA: I guess your parents do n't need a graduation announcement .
DICK: No .
TODD: Grandma and Grandpa are n't coming ?
MONICA: I thought you told him .
DICK: Christ , I forgot . Todd , my aunt Patty , Dad 's sister , died on Wednesday . Mom and Dad have to drive up to Fresno to settle her estate . We ca n't ask Dad to drive six hours each way for graduation .
MONICA: If we ask them , they 'll do it .
DICK: That 's why . You understand , do n't you , Todd ? Todd thinks for a moment , realizes something .
TODD: Of course , Dad . It 's all right . Tell Grandpa I 'll spend the week with him and Grandma when they get back .
MONICA: What about Mr. Denker ? I almost forgot about him .
TODD: No , He wo n't want to come .
ARCHIE: Well if you 're offering , I 'm accepting .
DUSSANDER: No trouble at all . Now where is my bottle opener ? Ah , here it is .
ARCHIE: No . I do n't mind . Maybe in the morning - everything goes okay - you could let me have ten dollars .
DUSSANDER: Perhaps .
ARCHIE: Maybe even twenty .
DUSSANDER: Perhaps . We shall see . Pause .
DUSSANDER: It 's all right . So have I .
DICK: Monica how long did we rent those jet skis in Hawaii ?
MONICA: About two hours . Why ?
DICK: This receipt says we had two jet skis fo twenty-three hours a piece . The bill is fifteen hundred dollars . Did n't you look at the receipt before you signed it ? Todd does n't look up from his textbook .
TODD: Way to go , Mom .
MONICA: That bill was written in Japanese . I told you that .
DICK: Numbers are numbers , Monica , in any language .
MONICA: That guy did n't speak a word of English . I told you not to rent from him . The PHONE RINGS . Monica gets up to get it .
DICK: That 's not the point . You should always read the bill before you sign . I 've told you that a hundred times . Fifteen hundred dollars .
TODD: Maybe it 's in yen . Pause . Dick looks at the bill .
DICK: Hey , maybe you 're right . Monica comes back into the room .
MONICA: Todd , it 's Mr. Denker . He sounds excited about something . You better speak to him .
TODD: Mr. Denker ?
DUSSANDER: Come over right away , boy . I 'm having a heart attack , a bad one , I think .
TODD: Gee , that sounds exciting , Mr. Denker , but I was studying for my trig final
DUSSANDER: I understand that you can not talk , but you can listen . I can not call 911 at least not yet . There is quite a mess here . I need help and that means you need help .
TODD: Well if you put it that way
DUSSANDER: Tell your parents I 've had a letter , an important letter , and I need you to read it to me .
TODD: Yeah , sure . I 'll be right there .
DUSSANDER: Now we see what you are made of , boy .
TODD: Bye . I 've got to run over to Mr. Denker 's for a minute .
MONICA: Is everything all right ?
TODD: Oh , he just got a letter from a nephew in Hamburg or Dusseldorf or one of those places .
DICK: I thought his family was killed in the war . Todd zips up his jacket .
TODD: So did he . That 's why he sounded excited . I should n't be too long . I 'll take your car , Mom ?
MONICA: I do n't know , you have a final tomorrow .
DICK: Do n't be gone too long , Todd .
TODD: See you in a bit .
DUSSANDER: It 's not my blood , for Christ 's sake . Pause .
TODD: What did you say ?
DUSSANDER: It was self-defense , boy . Go downstairs . You 'll see what needs to be done . Dussander points to the open cellar door .
TODD: Fuck you . I 'm not going down there . What happened ? What did you do ?
DUSSANDER: You give me no choice , boy .
TODD: What are you doing ? Open the door .
DUSSANDER: If you wo n't help me , then I 'll make you help me . If you do n't , we are finished .
TODD: Fuck you , old man . This is your problem . I did n't do this . Open the door !
DUSSANDER: Enough . Enough . Enough ! If you do n't stop screaming like a fucking school girl I 'm going to
TODD: Fuck your document . I got nothing to do with this . Do n't make it sound like I do . I came here , I saw this shit , and now I 'm getting the fuck out of here . That 's what I 'm gon na tell the police .
DUSSANDER: Why not tell them the truth ? Tell them I locked you in the cellar . Tell them I would n't let you out until you buried the ody .
TODD: I 'm not listening to this .
DUSSANDER: You must be at the window , yes ? As you can see I had it barred a few years ago . A bad element started to move into the neighborhood , you know how it is .
TODD: Oh really ?
DUSSANDER: What are you doing , boy ? It 's not going to work , whatever it is .
TODD: Fuck this .
DUSSANDER: Hello ?
TODD: Where 's the fucking pinesol ?
DUSSANDER: Cellar . Under the stairs .
TODD: I ought to run this through your chest , you know that ?
DUSSANDER: It could n't hurt more than a heart attack . He looks at the clock - 10 15 .
TODD: Christ , my parents are going to freak .
DUSSANDER: Stay calm , boy . You are doing fine .
TODD: Fuck off .
DUSSANDER: Is that my undershirt ?
TODD: Do n't you die on me , you old bastard . Not now .
DUSSANDER: I think we 're okay .
TODD: Me too .
DUSSANDER: Call an ambulance .
TODD: The key .
DUSSANDER: What are you talking about ?
TODD: The safety deposit box . I want the key
DUSSANDER: For God 's sake , boy
TODD: I want the key and I want to know where the ank is . Dussander can not argue .
DUSSANDER: Hillcrest Savings on Domingo Avenue . The key is behind the clock on the mantle piece .
TODD: Sign this .
DUSSANDER: What for ?
TODD: Sign it .
DUSSANDER: What ? What is it ?
TODD: The letter . Where is the goddamn letter ? I told my parents I came over to read you a letter from Germany .
DUSSANDER: A letter . Yes , we 'll say it 's from Willi Frankel
TODD: We need a letter . I told them it was you nephew , I think .
DUSSANDER: My bedroom . Look in the dresser . Second , no third , drawer from the top . There is a small wooden box . You will have to break it open . I lost the key . There are letters , very old ones . From a friend . All in German . None of them are signed or dated . A page or two will be fine . Todd turns to go and stops .
TODD: Are you crazy ? I do n't read German , you num fuck .
DUSSANDER: Why would Willi write me in English ? If you were to read me the letter in German , I would understand even though you would not . You pronunciation would be terrible , but I could manage
TODD: All right . All right . Todd dashes out of the room .
PARAMEDIC: Well , we 'll take care of him now . We 're going to take him to St. Luke 's . It 's a good thing you called when you did . You saved his life . The medics wheel Dussander out .
DICK: You did real good , son . You did real good
TODD: C'mon . Let 's make sure he gets checked in all right .
NURSE: He needs to rest now . You can come back tomorrow after ten .
DAVID: I 'll be back in the morning with the girls .
BEN: I ca n't wait to see them . The orderlies lift Ben onto his bed .
NURSE: The doctor will be in to see you in a few minutes .
BEN: Thank you .
DUSSANDER: I see .
BEN: David is very protective of me . Of course , I do n't mind . I enjoy his company . A few years ago he started working with me at the university . I teach chemistry . My name is Ben , by the way .
DUSSANDER: Arthur .
BEN: A pleasure , Arthur . What do you do ?
DUSSANDER: I 'm retired . Pause .
BEN: These tubes in my arm . No one said they would itch like this .
DUSSANDER: You will find , in time , you do n't notice .
BEN: Well , we 'll see . Looks like I 'll be here fo a while . I did n't want to alarm my nephew just yet , but this break in my leg well , we 'll see what the doctor says .
DUSSANDER: Yes , of course . But for now , you must forgive me , my medication has made me drowsy . Do not be offended if I fall asleep .
BEN: Do n't be offended if I keep talking anyway . It beats wondering if I 'm ever going to walk again . I tell you , my friend , the ways of God are not meant to be understood .
TODD: He 's really sick . Please .
BANK CLERK: I sure hope your granddaddy feels better . You can bring that in here .
TODD: Son of a bitch .
DUSSANDER: You should n't have .
TODD: They 're from my mother .
DUSSANDER: I had to protect myself from you , boy .
TODD: No , I do n't think we will .
DUSSANDER: Wait , boy There is something I want to ask you .
TODD: What ?
DUSSANDER: Was it like you thought ?
TODD: I should go . He turns for the door .
DUSSANDER: Perhaps perhaps I could persuade you to wait here just until I fall asleep . This medicine makes me quite woozy please .
BEN: Excuse me , young man . Todd is startled .
TODD: Thanks . But he 's just a friend .
BEN: Is that right ? Well , you are a good friend to him . Tell me , is he bad off ? He does n't talk much .
TODD: The doctors say he 'll be out soon .
BEN: That is good news , indeed . Tell me , from the way he speaks I 'd guess he 's been naturalized , like me . Is he ?
TODD: He 's from Germany From Essen . Do you know that town ?
BEN: I was only in Germany once . I 'm Polish . Originally , I mean , I 'm from Radom . I wonde if he was in the war .
TODD: I really could n't say .
BEN: It does n't matter , I suppose . It was a long time ago , the war . Soon in this country we may have a president born after the war was over . How about that ? Todd starts to leave .
TODD: I 'm sure you 're right .
BEN: Your friend is lucky to have you . A great man once said , 'No man is an island entire of itself . '
TODD: John Donne . Take care , sir .
BEN: Good-bye .
DUSSANDER: Where 's the nurse ?
DARREN: My name is Darren . I 'll be taking care of you from now on . I 'll tell the doctor you 've woken up .
DUSSANDER: What is going on here ? Where is Ben ?
DARREN: Mr. Krauss has been moved . I 'm going to give you something . It will help you sleep .
DUSSANDER: I do n't want it . Who is that man ?
DARREN: Your surgery was a success . Just try to elax .
WEISKOPF: No one else is here . Dussander looks over at Ben 's former bed .
DUSSANDER: Yes , of course , but you seem to have me confused with someone else . My name is Arthur Denker . Perhaps you want a different oom
WEISKOPF: My name is Weiskopf . You are Kurt Dussander .
DUSSANDER: I know no one by that name . Shall I ring fo the nurse ?
WEISKOPF: The man in the next bed was Benjamin Krauss . He was imprisoned for ten months at Patin . You were responsible for the death of his wife and two daughters . His identification of you was quite specific . I 'm sure his eward from my government will help offset the burden of his broken leg .
DUSSANDER: My name is Arthur Denker . I am an American
WEISKOPF: Please do n't bother . Your papers will not stand up to serious examination and you know it .
RICHLER: We have all we need here , Isaac .
DUSSANDER: Who are you men ? What are your names ?
RICHLER: My name is Richler , FBI . This is Detective Getty from the Orange County Sheriff 's Department .
WEISKOPF: And I think you know who I work for . When you get your strength back , you will be moved . Until then , this entire ward will be under surveillance . You can expect to be in Tel Aviv by the end of the summer . The three men are out the door .
TODD: The road ahead reveals itself , uh , God , no . The road ahead grrrr , The fucking road ahead . Monica appears in the doorway .
MONICA: Todd ?
TODD: Huh ?
MONICA: What are you doing there in the dark ?
TODD: Oh , working .
FRENCH: Hello , Todd . It 's your big day , is n't it ?
DICK: Dick Bowden , nice to meet you . This is my wife , Monica .
MONICA: Are you one of Todd 's teachers ? French is a bit puzzled .
FRENCH: No . I 'm his guidance counsellor .
WOMAN: Monica , I thought that was you .
TODD: That 's our cue .
FRENCH: It was nice meeting you .
DICK: You too . Good luck , son .
FRENCH: I 'll talk to you and your wife after the ceremony .
TASHA: Thy sacred emblems to partake - Thy consecrated bread to take And thine immortal wine !
MORGAN: Thank you , Miss Little for that supe invocation . Pause . More applause .
TODD: We all have dreams that we carry with us . Perhaps it is a dream of prosperity , o happiness . But now , so early in our lives , it seems that all we should ask for is to be at peace with the world , because only then can we be at peace with ourselves .
RICHLER: What about this ?
WEISKOPF: Yes . All photographs . Detective Getty comes in .
GETTY: You boys better come down to the cellar . You 're not going to believe this .
MORGAN: Andrew Woodman Donald Young Karmisha Youngblood David Zedek Kyle Zuckerman . The graduating class of 1985 .
MONICA: Honey .
TODD: Mom , I do n't feel so good .
MONICA: What 's wrong ?
TODD: I do n't know , I feel like I 'm going to pass out . Can we go home ?
AGNES: You looked real good up there , Todd . Todd ignores her .
DICK: Do n't you want to see your buddies ?
TODD: I want to go , Dad . Right now .
RICHLER: Todd , my name is Dan Richler . I 'm a special
WEISKOPF: Hello .
DICK: What kind of doctor are you ?
WEISKOPF: I 'm a school teacher .
RICHLER: Dr. Weiskopf is a professor at the Judaic Institute in Munich . He is assisting the Israeli government in certain matters . He is here today , only as an observer . A moment passes between Weiskopf and Todd .
DICK: Actually , it was Todd 's idea to call . He thought we thought there might be some way we could help your investigation .
RICHLER: Todd , if you would n't mind , I 'd like to hea about your involvement with Dussander but you knew him as Arthur Denker , right ?
TODD: Yeah . I never knew of that other name till I saw it in the paper .
RICHLER: How did you know him ? Todd starts to rub his stomach .
TODD: I met him at the movies . Last summer . He asked me where to pick up the number seven us . He said his eyes were n't too good . Will you excuse me for a minute ?
MONICA: You okay , honey ?
TODD: I just got ta use the bathroom . I 'll be right ack .
MONICA: He 's not feeling well . ANGLE on Dick .
RICHLER: Todd , let me tell you what we 're really interested in here . You told the admitting nurse that Denker had a heart attack while you were reading him a letter .
TODD: That 's right . I was . That 's what I was doing there . It was in German but he insisted I try to read it anyway . Once o twice he got pissy about the pronunciation ut I asked him what did he want from me . I do n't speak German . Mr. Denker Dussander got really excited at one point . He yelled out , `` Yes , that 's what you would do all right . '' but I did n't know what he was talking about . Then he grabbed his chest .
RICHLER: And that 's when you called the ambulance , ight ?
TODD: That 's right .
RICHLER: Well , this is the part we ca n't figure out . The letter itself , Todd do you remembe what happened to it ?
TODD: I guess it was still on the table . I could n't swear to it , but
DICK: Wait , I saw a letter . It was in German . I did n't think anything of it at the time . But , yeah , it was on Airmail stationery .
RICHLER: Then it should still be there . This is ou problem .
DICK: It is n't ?
RICHLER: No .
MONICA: Maybe somebody broke in .
RICHLER: Why would somebody break into his house simply to steal a letter ? Unless there was someone someone right here in Santo Donato who would want to protect him for some eason . Maybe a close friend , or even another fugitive . I know it sounds like a unch of Robert Ludlum stuff , but when Dussander was taken to the hospital , we think our Mr. X scooted over to the house and swiped the letter .
TODD: That does n't make sense .
RICHLER: Why not , Todd ?
TODD: Well , if Denk if he had an old Nazi buddy in town , why did n't he come over himself and ead the letter to him ? If you could have heard the way he corrected me at every word
RICHLER: A good point . Except maybe this other fellow is in a wheelchair , or blind .
TODD: Guys that are blind do n't normally go scooting out to steal letters .
RICHLER: True . Did Dussander have any friends that you knew of ?
TODD: No , not really .
RICHLER: How about phone calls ? Pause .
TODD: No , I heard his phone ring maybe five or six times in all the time I knew him . It was never anything out of the ordinary . Salesmen . Wrong numbers .
RICHLER: Did you ever hear him speak German on those occasions ?
TODD: No . He hardly ever spoke German . He always said he would teach me someday , but he neve got around to it .
WEISKOPF: Did he ever talk about his past ?
TODD: Not really . Little bits , I guess .
MONICA: Well , do n't you remember what he told us at Thanksgiving ? Todd looks at her .
DICK: Monica . They do n't care what we know , they care what Todd knows .
RICHLER: Look , I 'm sure this whole thing has come as a terrible shock . I think we 've done enough for the day .
WEISKOPF: Thank you , Todd . Mr. and Mrs. Bowden . Weiskopf nods good-bye .
DICK: Wait a minute Agent Richler , before you go Todd 's not a suspect in this , is he ? I mean he 's just talking to you , right ?
RICHLER: That 's right .
DICK: Because Todd always thought he was helping that old man . We did n't know any of this efore today .
RICHLER: Mr. Bowden , you and Todd have nothing to worry about . I assure you . Your son has een a great service to us . Thank you , Todd . For now that 's all we need . Our next step is to turn that house upside down . We 're inging in some special teams to look through everything . We may come up with something . We 'll be in touch if we need you .
TODD: No .
RICHLER: Okay , thanks .
TODD: You 'll be back , wo n't you boys ? Wo n't you ,
DICK: Everything all right , son ?
TODD: Yeah fine .
DICK: You sure ?
TODD: I 'm fine , Dad .
DICK: Your mother and I feel terrible like we
TODD: It 's not your fault .
DICK: You know we love you , do n't you ?
TODD: I know , Dad .
DICK: Look , ahh , your mother and I are going to go down and talk to our lawyer . I do n't want you to worry about a thing . It 's just a precaution . I do n't trust these cops . We 're not going to be gone long .
TODD: Do n't worry about me , I 'll be fine .
DICK: Your old man is on top of things , all right ? I am going to take care of this .
TODD: I know , Dad .
DICK: This afternoon , if you 're up for it , we 'll go do something . How 'bout it ?
TODD: Sure .
FRENCH: Hello , Todd .
TODD: Mr. French , what brings you to the wild side of town ?
FRENCH: Todd I found something troubling in the morning news . Are your parents home ?
TODD: No .
FRENCH: I know the man in this picture is the man who came to see me .
TODD: It 's sort of a bad time right now . Why do n't you go home ?
FRENCH: I will . But first I need a couple of things explained to me .
TODD: You know , Mr. French , sometimes one thing just leads to another and before you know it things get out of control .
FRENCH: I 'm afraid that 's not much of an answer , Todd . When do you expect your parents home ?
TODD: I do n't know , Ed . You want to come in and wait ? I 'll put on a pot of tea . We 'll talk about old times .
FRENCH: I think you might need some help , Todd . That 's why I 'm here .
TODD: Can I ask you something , Ed ? You do n't mind if I call you Ed , now that I 'm out of you fucking school , do you ?
FRENCH: What ?
TODD: You know all this crap you see on TV about forensics hairs and fibers , that stuff ? How much of it do think is true and how much is just bullshit ?
FRENCH: Todd , this is silly . Why do n't we go inside ?
TODD: Here 's a little factoid for ya . I 'll bet you did n't know this one . Hairs fall out of you head all the time . But it 's even worse when you 're nervous . And you know what ? I 've een real fucking high-strung lately .
FRENCH: Listen , Todd Please .
TODD: That 's how it all happened , you know . One thing lead to another and before I knew it
FRENCH: Whoa . To
ROBERT: They lived through the Depression , Pearl Harbor , and the Bomb . And they did n't think bad things might happen ; they knew they would happen .
MARIA: Is that what 's happening now ?
ROBERT: When I was a kid my favorite teacher was Mr. James . Mr. James said that world events always evolve around five things ( extending his fingers one-
MARIA: Was this freshman econ ?
ROBERT: This was fifth-grade econ . But this is something we 've seen over and over again , time and time again , that competition for this limited amount of dollars out there , can make even the best of us manic . So it 's not surprising that we see these asset bubbles , but when reality sets in of course , they burst .
GAVIN: Here you go Robert sips it . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 3 .
SITTING: You 're disappointed .
ROBERT: Quants ? Derivatives structures ? What was that about ?
GAVIN: It makes no sense .
ROBERT: That 's what you said last week . Why 'd we go down there ?
GAVIN: To sign .
ROBERT: And did we sign ?
GAVIN: No .
ROBERT: No . We did not . Instead I fly two thousand miles for a marketing meeting And where was Mayfield ? What was this `` emergency '' ? What was that about ?
GAVIN: Did you speak to the auditors ?
ROBERT: Why ?
GAVIN: What if we do n't do n't close this week
ELLEN: Look , your grandfather 's here !
ROBERT: Hi , guys ! Goldenrod - 4.17.11 5 .
GRANDCHILD: Hi Grampi ! What did you bring us ?
BROOKE: It 's your birthday , Dad , not theirs . You 're spoiling them rotten .
ROBERT: It 's my job ! It 's my job . You guys turned out fine !
BROOKE: Debatable .
ROBERT: ( to Peter , as they hug and
SMILE: How you doin ' , son ? Good ?
ELLEN: We had to eat . The kids were starving
ROBERT: No , no that 's okay . Where 's my drink , is this mine , here ?
ALL: HEY ! HAPPY BIRTHDAY ! YAY !
ROBERT: Thank you , thank you , thank you all very much , it 's such a surprise , I did n't even know it was my birthday ! Everyone laughs a little . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 6 .
MORE LAUGHTER: I 've done a lot of things in my life , worked very hard , but being here , looking around at all these shining , adiant faces , I know that my best work is right here in this room , right now I 'm deeply proud of all of you . That 's the best gift your mother and I could have hoped for ,
KISSES ELLEN: so , thank you
PETER: and to have sold the company to Standard this morning ! They all LAUGH .
ROBERT: That , too , Peter , but- no business tonight no business !
ELLEN: Oh , here we go ! More group LAUGHTER .
ROBERT: Although your one-track mind assures me you 've got not only your mother 's genes , but you 've got mine , too !
ALL: Hear , hear ! Goldenrod - 4.17.11 7 .
ROBERT: Kids are wild .
BROOKE: I do n't know about me as a mom .
ROBERT: No , no no , you should have I want more `` you 's '' around .
BROOKE: It 's all about you , is n't it .
ROBERT: Yeah , yeah yeah Brooke nods , tries to smile .
BROOKE: So what was that all about ?
ROBERT: What ?
BROOKE: The last time you made a speech like that we lost the Firestone bid .
ROBERT: Yeah , well I just wanted it to be about the family tonight .
BROOKE: You see this ?
ROBERT: Yeah Oy . You know how I feel about that . Trash can .
BROOKE: Peter 's got a copy pinned up in the conference room .
ROBERT: Well , you gon na keep skirting around it ? Brooke leans back and stares at him .
BROOKE: Why sell our company ? We make a great return , we give money to the causes we believe in
ROBERT: My darling , you are still in your 20 's . I am 60 . That 's a big difference in point of view .
BROOKE: Dad , you 're not that old .
ROBERT: It catches up alright . And maybe there 's some other things I 'd like to do . Maybe I would like to spend a little more time with you guys outside the office . Brooke shoots him a look .
GROWING IMPATIENT: What ? Staring at him , then
BROOKE: I 'm just trying to imagine what we would do .
ELLEN: Where are you going ?
ROBERT: Office .
ELLEN: Now ?
ROBERT: Yeah I got ta finish up that thing .
ELLEN: But , I have n't given you you irthday present yet
ROBERT: I 'll be back as soon as I can .
JULIE: Okay
ROBERT: Alright , I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry I 'm late . I 'm always late you know that and I 'm sorry . And I 'm always saying I 'm sorry about being late . It does n't mean I would n't rathe e here with you .
JULIE: You gon na be there ?
ROBERT: ( slight beat , then
DEFINITIVE: I will be there .
LAUGHING: Oh wow , that 's great . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 11 .
JULIE: I made this for you .
ROBERT: You made this ? This is amazing . One candle , thank you very
JEFFREY: Thank you , Diane . She exits . Robert sits . A moment of silence .
ROBERT: I 'm here .
JEFFREY: Guess what 's not ?
ROBERT: Jeffrey , I told you , I 'm
JEFFREY: `` working on it , '' yeah . Well , while you 're doing that , lem me tell you what 's not working
LEANING FORWARD: Jeffrey Goldenrod - 4.17.11 12 .
JEFFREY: what 's not working is my fou hundred twelve million dollars that 's sitting in your account so you can pass your audit , the four hundred twelve million that you needed , you said , for two weeks , and which has een languishing now fo thirty-two days , while it could be elsewhere invested , earning an actual eturn , instead of couching the absurd lie that you 're spinning .
ROBERT: What do you want me to say ?
JEFFREY: That you 're gon na get a signature from Mayfield , and that my hostage money and my fee are going to be sent to me promptly , say by tomorrow ? A beat .
ROBERT: I am solving the problem . I am getting you your money and your fee . You will have them very shortly .
JEFFREY: When ?
ROBERT: As soon as they sign the contract .
JEFFREY: You know , I 'm not the one with the liability , pal . I just made a loan . You 're looking at jail for a thousand years for fraudulent conveyance and
ROBERT: Stop it ! You do n't have to talk to me like that !
JEFFREY: I did n't get you into this mess !
ROBERT: You were a friend of mine ! Goldenrod - 4.17.11 13 .
JEFFREY: remember when you asked me if it was a good idea to divert half you liquid assets into a fucking coppe mine ? What did I tell you ?
ROBERT: ( stands , heading to doo
WITH COAT: Are we done here ? I think we 're done here .
JEFFREY: Friday morning I take my money back .
ROBERT: You ca n't do that
JEFFREY: the fuck I ca n't , it 's in an escrow bill with one-day call rights
ROBERT: I need the money there until they sign , Jeffrey . What if they check again ?
JEFFREY: That 's really not my problem , is it ?
ROBERT: Not your fuckin problem
CNBC ANNOUNCER: The DOW continues its uptick this morning on new housing starts to ise 132 points . Asian markets fared less well , especially in Russia , where further nationalization plans caused foreign investment to sputter , leading to various
ROBERT: What ?
ELLEN: It 's the third one you 've tried .
ROBERT: Ay , yay yay . I look old .
ELLEN: You look regal , and wise , and granted a little worried . What is going on ? Are you afraid of this meeting ?
ROBERT: They have n't signed the papers .
ELLEN: I thought that 's why you flew down there . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 15 .
ROBERT: So did I , but for some reason they 're stalling . I did n't get any sleep on the plane and
ELLEN: Now come on . It will all work out . Just follow the plan .
ROBERT: What plan is that ?
ELLEN: `` Confidence equals contract . ''
ROBERT: You sound like a fortune cookie .
ELLEN: They 're your words , actually .
ROBERT: Then you married an idiot .
ELLEN: Okay , but I was thinking , idiot , that , after the deal is done , which it definitely will be , why do n't we just take off ? Pete 's in the best place he 's ever been , your daughte is always as brilliant , right ? So , I wan na have some fun . I wan na have fun with you ! He stares at her softly , but stays silent .
GROWING UNCOMFORTABLE: There has n't been time .
ELLEN: We have to make time . We go for a year . Let 's take a year and get fat and have fun and go on an adventure . I mean seriously how much money do we need ? . Do you wan na be the richest guy in the cemetery ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 16 . He straightens his jacket , laughs .
ROBERT: I do n't wan na be in the cemetery !
ELLEN: Oh , by the way , Mary called from St. Victor 's Hospital , again , she said they still have n't gotten the check yet
ROBERT: I 'm taking care of it .
ELLEN: The gala is Friday . Should I be selling my ring ? What 's going on ?
ROBERT: I 've had to move some things around for the merger .
ELLEN: It 's only two million .
ROBERT: Only two million ?
ELLEN: Yeah !
ROBERT: You remember Riccio 's ? Full meals two bucks all you can eat three ucks
ELLEN: I do remember . But I do not emember you being so sentimental unless you were trying to change the subject . A KNOCK at the door .
ROBERT: I do n't know what you 're talking about Ellen slaps his behind . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 17 .
MAITRE'D: Mr. Miller , good to see you , sir . Your party has already arrived . He leads Robert and Gavin into the
ROBERT: Where the hell is Mayfield ?
BARNES: Mr. Miller , thank you for coming . We were just getting acquainted with Brooke and Peter here .
ROBERT: I hope they did n't beat you up too much .
AIMES: They 've been terrific .
PETER: Dad , we 've been talking about operations . Tim thinks once we consolidate we can save about fifty percent on our back-office .
ROBERT: I 'd love to hear about that , but
A BEAT: I had thought Mr. Mayfield planned to join us tonight .
AIMES: Jim should be here in twenty minutes ; he suggested we get right into details .
BARNES: I was just telling Brooke now that we can market your quants ' track ecords , we have access to a host of new capital that Robert drifts as the suits prattle on .
ROBERT: I 'm sorry , gentlemen , we 've been here nearly two hours now . Where is Mr. Mayfield ?
AIMES: He just texted me . He 's very sorry , ut he 's been detained .
ROBERT: Detained where ? Silence .
RISING: Alright , I think I can leave you with my family ?
BARNES: Of course . Again , Mr. Miller , a privilege . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 19 .
ROBERT: Yeah , yeah yeah .
BROOKE: Dad They move off to the side .
GAVIN: This is the bullshit way you try to close a deal ?
AIMES: Port ? Would you like to have some port ?
BROOKE: Did you get my message ?
ROBERT: No . What 's up ?
BROOKE: We need to sit down .
ROBERT: What is it ?
BROOKE: I do n't want to talk about it here .
ROBERT: BROOKE
BROOKE: I found some strange entries in the `` Old Hill '' books .
ROBERT: What kind of entries ?
BROOKE: I 'm not sure yet , but there 's definitely something off . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 20 .
ROBERT: Alright , come by about eleven tomorrow and we 'll look at it then . And Brooke ?
BROOKE: Yeah .
ROBERT: See if you can find out what happened to Mayfield .
ASSISTANT: Great . Everyone loves them .
ROBERT: Yeah , but how are they doing ?
ASSISTANT: So-so . He scans the party further . No Julie .
ROBERT: Where 's Julie ?
ASSISTANT: She 's in the back .
ROBERT: Hey , Julie .
JULIE: Oh This is Robert Miller , one of ou collectors . This Katrina Stanton , and Alex Stanton and their daughter Ava , who is a talented young artist .
ROBERT: Oh , really ? Painter ?
AVA: Drawings .
ROBERT: Yeah , that 's great .
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 22 .
JULIE: Go away . Julie heads back to the buyers .
ROBERT: I will take
ASSISTANT: Right there , number seven .
ROBERT: Do n't tell her it was me . I mean it .
ASSISTANT: You got it . Robert walks out and hails his driver .
JULIE: Who 's this ?
ROBERT: I 'm in your bedroom . Can you get those people out of here ?
JULIE: Are you serious ?
ROBERT: Look down the hall . Do you see me ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 24 .
JULIE: I see you .
ROBERT: Okay , so I 'm serious .
JULIE: You just come in and out wheneve you want ?
ROBERT: I thought we should talk
JULIE: One damn night in a month I told you was important to me , et tu es meme pas capable d'etre la
ROBERT: I was working , do you understand ? I 'm under enormous pressure , I have obligations
JULIE: I do n't want to hear about you obligations . If you cared YOU
ROBERT: I was there ! I was there ! I was late , but I was there . And I 'm here now .
JULIE: No , no , no . You 're here when it 's convenient for you to be here . C'est pas ca l'amour . Love means
ROBERT: I 'm sorry .
JULIE: Why did you buy those paintings ?
ROBERT: Because I liked them .
JULIE: Okay , thank you for helping me get started . But if I 'm gon na fail then let me fail !
ROBERT: Julie , you 're not gon na fail . Why would you fail ? He crosses towards her .
JULIE: What image ?
ROBERT: Success . He sits down next to her .
JULIE: You 're never gon na leave her .
ROBERT: Come away with me . Let 's just take your car and go
JULIE: Where ?
ROBERT: There 's a place upstate . Very eautiful , on the water . We can wake up there together- just you and me . I 'd like that . She 's keeps crying , but
JULIE: Me , too .
ROBERT: Yes , I wan na make it collect
OPERATOR: Your name , sir ?
ROBERT: Lawrence Grant . RINGING , then
BRYER: You got ta be fucking kidding me .
MILLS: Catching detective wants us to rule efore he calls it .
BRYER: We 've been having the same fuckin ' argument for twenty years .
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 29 .
MILLS: I 'm not so sure about this
BRYER: So who kicked out the door ?
ROBERT: Let 's go .
JIMMY: You gon na tell me what this is ?
ROBERT: It 's better you do n't ask .
JIMMY: So all you 're sayin ' is , you need a ide somewhere . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 30 .
ROBERT: That 's correct .
JIMMY: Because I want to be very clea about this you called me to give you a ride . I 'm giving you a ride .
ROBERT: No , you 're not . We 're not here .
JIMMY: Oh , no ? Then where the fuck are we ?
ROBERT: We 're both alseep right now . At home . Which is where you left you phone , right ?
JIMMY: Right .
ROBERT: Because if anyone checks
JIMMY: Why is anyone gon na check ?
ROBERT: They 're not , as long as we 're not here . Anybody know you 're here ?
JIMMY: No .
ROBERT: Somebody knows you 're here ?
JIMMY: No !
ROBERT: But somebody knows you 're not there .
JIMMY: Well , my girl
ROBERT: Oh , Jesus , Jimmy
JIMMY: Man , you call up two am , what the fuck you want ? She asked me where I was going . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 31 .
ROBERT: What 'd you say ?
JIMMY: I told her I had to run out a minute . A beat .
ROBERT: Do you trust her ?
JIMMY: Is this the kinda shit you used to do to my dad ?
ROBERT: Do you trust her ?
JIMMY: Yes , I fucking trust her !
ROBERT: Good . So you 're at home , and I 'm at home . My wife gets up at five am fo Pilates I will be there next to her , where I 've been all night . And you 'll do the same with yours . Jimmy exhales a long sigh .
JIMMY: This is some pretty fucked up shit .
ROBERT: Jimmy
JIMMY: No , man , come on , I do n't hear from you since the fuckin ' funeral , you call me up out of the blue , using my father 's name , ask me
ROBERT: what do you want , you want money ? I will give you five thousand dollars ! I will give you ten thousand dollars ! I 'll give you whatever you fuckin '
JIMMY: You wan na talk to me like that you can get the fuck outta my car and you can walk ! You want that ? ! You wan na fuckin ' walk home ? !
ROBERT: Listen I 'm sorry . I 'm not myself . I need your help .
JIMMY: You alright ?
ROBERT: No , I just have to get home I 'll deal with it in a couple of hours .
JIMMY: What if you do n't make it a couple of hours ?
ROBERT: Then I do n't make it .
JIMMY: Call me , alright , and let me know it 's okay .
ROBERT: Better we do n't talk for a while .
JIMMY: So what you get in a bind and just call up the only nigger you know ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 33 . Robert looks at Jimmy , eyes tearing .
ROBERT: I 'm sorry , Jimmy . I really am . Just go home .
JIMMY: Yeah , alright , man . Take care of that .
SERVANT: Everything okay , sir ? Robert turns , startled .
ROBERT: I 'm fine , Glen . Go back to bed . The servant shuffles off .
ELLEN: Where did you go ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 34 .
ROBERT: What ?
ELLEN: I woke up for a minute , you were n't here
ROBERT: I just went to eat some ice cream .
ELLEN: Was it good ?
ROBERT: Yes
ELLEN: Good . Do n't forget to take your Lipitor in the morning
ROBERT: Ellen
ELLEN: What ?
ROBERT: Do you still love me ?
ELLEN: Of course I do She rolls over . Hold on Robert 's face .
SYD: Hypothetically , the situation you 're describing would be involuntary manslaughter .
ROBERT: And such a person
SYD: would be in a lot of trouble , especially if that person was closing a merger with a large public bank where any publicity or arrest could delay or derail the transaction .
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 35 .
ROBERT: Fingerprints , DNA ?
SYD: Very hard to collect after an explosion . The real world 's different from television .
ROBERT: What about cell phone records ?
SYD: Did this person make any calls from the area ?
ROBERT: Not from a cell phone , no .
SYD: Then they wo n't be able to place him there .
ROBERT: What would you advise such a person to do ?
SYD: To confess immediately .
ROBERT: Failing which ?
SYD: To put as much distance between himself and the event as possible , if possible . But let me tell you something , and I 'm speaking to you as a friend now there are about fifty things that person would n't have thought of . And the more time that passes , the more lies that are told , the worse it gets for him . Robert stands .
FRENCH ACCENT: Robert
ROBERT: Yeah .
SYD: They 're going to come to you . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 36 .
ROBERT: I know .
SYD: An accident 's not the worst trouble . If we talk to them now we can probably work it out .
ROBERT: You tell me what happens if the Standard deal does not close , and I got ta tell my investors about ou eal losses ?
SYD: Nothing good .
ROBERT: And what 'd you say about the Justice Department ? Depending on what they decide to arrest me on fraud conviction gets me twenty years ?
SYD: I did .
ROBERT: What choice do I really have ?
CHRIS: You 're aware Congress plans to extend the audit requirements fo private funds .
ROBERT: Of course I am aware . I gave testimony to the committee .
ZEROING IN: You know this . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 37 .
CHRIS: Well , Standard wants to prepare fo it now . So I was asked to go through every one of your trading books and econfirm their assets .
ROBERT: No . Absolutely not . That 's impossible .
CHRIS: Do n't worry . I put the team on different books and I left `` Old Hill '' for myself .
SMILES: Anyway , I 'm here to tell you I cleared it .
ROBERT: The audit 's cleared ?
CHRIS: The report will be issued today . Actually , I 'm calling it my `` swan song . ''
ROBERT: You 're leaving ?
CHRIS: Yeah , on Friday , it 's a five-year clock .
ROBERT: And why ?
CHRIS: Uhh.. To prevent exactly what we 're doing . But honestly , there 's nothing left to worry about . It 's great . The carphone RINGS .
ROBERT: Get out . Chris exits .
NO RESPONSE: Maybe he 's settling in .
ROBERT: You think we 're dealing with a fucking idiot ?
BEAT: I spoke to legal . They said Standard will sign once they get the audit report .
ROBERT: That 's being issued now .
BROOKE: I can not reconcile it
ROBERT: Reconcile what ?
BROOKE: The `` Old Hill '' Fund . Dad , are you listening to me ?
ROBERT: Of course I 'm listening .
SITS FORWARD: Okay , those trades are in the special ook . They do n't get audited on the same balance sheet .
BROOKE: Yeah , but look at the sheet ! It ca n't be right . There 's a fou hundred million dollar hole here . I mean that ca n't be right .
RECEPTIONIST: May I help you ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 40 .
BRYER: Detective Bryer . I was hoping to see Mr. Miller .
CINDY: Is he expecting you ?
BRYER: Possibly .
BROOKE: the way that this sheet reads , half of the fund 's assets are missing .
ROBERT: That 's ridiculous . That ca n't be right .
BROOKE: I know , it 's ridiculous , and yet
ROBERT: Okay , I 'll look into it . I promise you I 'll look into it . The Intercom handset RINGS .
BROOKE: Everything alright ?
ROBERT: Yes , my other meeting just got here early . We 'll have to pick this up later .
BROOKE: Okay . And Mom wants to know about the hospital check ?
ROBERT: Brooke , we 'll pick it up later , alright ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 41 .
BROOKE: Okay . Brooke exits . Robert steels himself .
ROBERT: Yeah , I 'm sorry to keep you waiting . You can sit there . We just heard about it . Really terrible .
BRYER: Okay , so you were an investor in her gallery ?
ROBERT: Correct .
BRYER: How 'd you meet her ?
ROBERT: Through I think it was a charity function . My wife and I have a foundation .
BRYER: Uh-huh . When 'd you last see her ?
ROBERT: Last night , at the gallery .
BRYER: Did you stay till the doors closed ?
ROBERT: No , I think I left about ten .
BRYER: Where 'd you go ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 42 .
ROBERT: Home .
BRYER: You go straight home ?
ROBERT: Yeah .
BRYER: You stay home ?
ROBERT: Yeah .
BRYER: Your wife home ?
ROBERT: Yes . Bryer shifts , edging forward .
BRYER: Okay . Okay , so now , back to the gallery . Did you see her with anyone ?
ROBERT: See her with anyone what do you mean ?
BRYER: You know like a boyfriend , someone she might 've left with ?
ROBERT: Not that I noticed . No . No , no .
BRYER: Reason I ask , is , that we have n't located the driver .
ROBERT: The driver ?
BRYER: Yeah , someone else was driving .
BEAT: Sometimes , the driver , will go fo help and he 'll die tryin ' , you know Goldenrod - 4.17.11 43 .
ROBERT: This is awful . This is truly awful .
BRYER: We 're searching the area right now . So no boyfriend that you know of ?
ROBERT: Actually we did n't talk about personal matters .
BRYER: She was just an employee , right ?
ROBERT: Well not an employee . I was an investor .
BRYER: Why 'd you invest ?
ROBERT: Why did I invest ?
BRYER: Yeah , why 'd you invest ?
ROBERT: She had a great eye . She found me
BRYER: Would you mind if we searched her apartment ?
ROBERT: Why would I mind ?
BRYER: It 's in your company 's name .
ROBERT: Oh , right . Yeah . Of course . Sure , go ahead .
BRYER: Now , Mr. Miller
ROBERT: Mmm-hmm ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 44 .
BRYER: Why would you lease an apartment for Ms. Cte ? Is that something you normally do for your employees ?
ROBERT: Actually I said that she was n't an employee , but I think she 'd just come over from Paris if I remember , and she needed a place to entertain buyers .
BRYER: So you leased her this apartment .
ROBERT: It was through our holding company . You seem a little confused by all this
BRYER: I am . But I 'll get there . Gim me time .
ROBERT: Alright .
BRYER: Now , I do n't mean to be indelicate
ROBERT: But you 're going to be indelicate
BRYER: Well , from what I 've been able to gather , she was n't exactly an art star . I mean , she worked for a couple a dealers in Paris , but
ROBERT: Oh , okay , I get it , so why would I invest in her and help her find a place ?
BRYER: Something like that , yeah .
ROBERT: It 's very simple , detective . I invest in people I believe in . I thought she 'd do well , so I backed her , she did . It 's is simple as that . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 45 .
BRYER: ( nods , stands as Robert
STANDS: Well that seems to make sense .
BEAT: So we 're all good with the apartment , then ?
ROBERT: Sure .
BRYER: Thanks .
ROBERT: What ?
BRYER: That 's a nasty cut ; I 've been looking at that for the last five minutes . Does it hurt you ?
ROBERT: Oh , no , I just hit it on the medicine cabinet .
BRYER: Last night ?
ROBERT: This morning .
BRYER: Hate when that happens .
ROBERT: Yeah . Me , too .
BRYER: Well , thanks for the chat .
ROBERT: No problem . Bryer heads out .
MAE: Ellen Miller 's office
ELLEN: And it , it transformed them , seriously .
MAE: There 's a Detective Bryer in the lobby . Ellen holds up her hand , buying a moment .
ELLEN: And thanks again for you generosity . Alright , we 'll see you then . Thank you , bye . I 'm sorry , what ?
MAE: Detective Bryer .
ELLEN: What does he want ?
MAE: I do n't know .
ELLEN: Well , I 'm late so I just ca n't deal with it right now .
MAE: Okay , what about these ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 47 .
ELLEN: Send them a thank you note , Zappos has een so generous Thanks , bye guys .
BRYER: Mrs. Miller ?
ELLEN: Yes ?
BRYER: Detective Bryer .
ELLEN: Did you just call my office ?
BRYER: Yeah , I was hoping to talk to you .
ELLEN: Well , I do n't have time right now , sorry..
BRYER: Just take a couple a seconds . It 's about your husband .
ELLEN: Well , fine , but , make an appointment .
MILLS: How 'd it go ?
BRYER: Well , the wife blew me off which was interesting . And he did n't admit to the affair , but then he would n't , would he ?
MILLS: Why did n't you pick him up ?
BRYER: He 's a very rich man . What happened with the pay phones ? Mills pulls out a SHEET from Verizon .
MILLS: Got about fifteen calls in a three- mile . Two of ` em look a little strange got an incoming that 's probably a local drug deal
BRYER: And the one we care about ?
MILLS: Collect call . About a minute and a half . Made from the Chevron station on West Lake Road .
BRYER: Who 'd he call ?
MILLS: Cellphone in Harlem . Still waiting on the address .
BRYER: ( thinks , gets up and
PACES: So , you 're at the crash site . Alright , and you make it outta the car . Now You 're smart enough not to use your own cellphone . So you get to the pay phone
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 49 .
PUNCHLINE: You call someone in Harlem ?
GAVIN: Robert , I just heard about Julie I 'm so sorry . Her Gallery called . Her mom 's flying in today .
ROBERT: Her Mom ? Service here ?
GAVIN: Tomorrow at nine am .
ROBERT: Well we should pick up the expenses for that . Whatever she wants . You 'll take care of that personally , for me ?
GAVIN: Of course Are you okay ?
ROBERT: You reach Mayfield ? The ELEVATOR arrives and Robert gets in .
GAVIN: Not yet , but we 'll get him
STARES: Robert , I
ROBERT: Thanks . Appreciate your concern . Gavin 's still staring as the doors close .
MILLS: Let 's flash him .
JIMMY: Yes ?
MILLS: NYPD Homicide , would you mind stepping into the car ?
JIMMY: What 's this about ?
BRYER: Just get in the car , Jimmy .
JIMMY: Am I under arrest ?
BRYER: You wan na be ?
JIMMY: Man , for what ? My answers ai n't gon na change .
BRYER: You were asleep .
JIMMY: Right . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 51 .
BRYER: And your phone rings .
JIMMY: Right .
BRYER: And it 's a wrong number . Jimmy does n't answer .
JIMMY: I do n't think I wan na answer any more questions .
BRYER: And you stay on the phone a minute and a half on a wrong number ? What the fuck do you talk about , area codes ?
JIMMY: I want to talk to my lawyer .
MILLS: Listen , kid , we know you went out there . We ID 'd your photo with you neighbor who saw you getting into your truck ten minutes after this call was made .
JIMMY: Well if you got all that , what the fuck you need me for , officer ?
BRYER: I do n't think you understand the gravity of the situation here , Jimmy . This is a homicide .
JIMMY: Lawyer .
ROBERT: You 're gon na sign him out ?
SYD: I called in Earl Monroe .
ROBERT: The basketball player ?
SYD: Civil rights attorney . You remembe Crown Heights ?
ROBERT: He 's the best ?
SYD: He 's the best above 96th Street- and that does n't make him any cheaper . Robert slumps back , staring out the window .
ROBERT: You 've got ta get Jimmy out of this .
SYD: It might not be that easy . If he does n't cooperate they 're likely to indict him on obstruction .
ROBERT: What would he be looking at ?
SYD: Hard to say . With his prior Five years , maybe ten . Robert 's silent .
BRYER: This is not going to go away . Jimmy ignores him and exits with Earl .
EARL: I 'll call you tomorrow if there 's any news . Do n't worry about anything . And do n't talk to anyone else . You take care .
ROBERT: Come on , get in . Jimmy enters . The limo drives off .
JIMMY: All you said was you wanted a fucking ride ! You did n't tell me you killed that girl !
ROBERT: Jimmy
JIMMY: I 'm trying to put my life back together . Okay , I appreciate you helped us , but now you 're pushing it too far .
ROBERT: It 's gon na be okay .
JIMMY: Like it was your ass sitting in there ? Like you know a fucking thing about how it 's gon na be ?
ROBERT: We 've got you the best criminal lawyer
JIMMY: Do n't you got your own son for this ? Why the hell you did n't call him ?
ROBERT: Cause he woulda fucked it up , okay ?
JIMMY: Well I 'm sorry your son 's a fuckin ' idiot , but that ai n't my fault .
SYD: This is n't productive . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 54 .
JIMMY: Oh , okay . So tell us then , Syd , what happens now ?
SYD: We meet with Earl and we go from there . I understand that right now they do n't have enough to charge you with anything .
ROBERT: Your under suspicion .
JIMMY: Under suspicion ? Motherfucker , I 'm Black !
ROBERT: I am aware of that .
JIMMY: And what exactly would you like me to do about it ?
SYD: Gentlemen , my driver will take you where you wan na go , but I can not be a party to this conversation , so this is where I get out
JIMMY: Why could n't you have just stayed ?
ROBERT: I could n't .
JIMMY: Why not ?
ROBERT: Because I have responsibilities . And if I stayed there , a lot of people would 've been hurt .
JIMMY: Somebody was hurt . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 55 .
ROBERT: Other people , Jimmy . I 've got business troubles , you understand ? People ely on me . Jimmy chews on this , dissatisfied .
JIMMY: Yeah .
ROBERT: Yeah , I know I messed up , alright ? I 'm sorry . But I do want to help you , you know that . So I 've been able to set up a situation for you .
JIMMY: What 's that ?
ROBERT: It 's a trust . In your name , assets of $ 2 Million dollars . Take a look at that .
JIMMY: Are you serious ? You think money 's gon na fix this ?
ROBERT: What else is there ?
JIMMY: Yo , yo man , pull over .
ROBERT: What are you gon na do ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 56 .
JIMMY: I look like a fucking snitch to you ?
ROBERT: I do n't know , Jimmy . I do n't know . Are you ?
AGITATED: What ?
ROBERT: Yeah , put him through Chris
BROOKE: Peter ? I 'm looking at some statements right now How much did you book last quarter ? No , I 'm not No , Peter , I 'm really just asking you She 's looking at an entry on the screen
BEN: What are you doing in my office ?
BROOKE: Can you explain these ?
BEN: Explain what ?
BROOKE: Old Hill . All the numbers you 've falsified .
BEN: You do n't know what you 're saying . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 58 .
BROOKE: Get out of my way .
BEN: Brooke
BROOKE: You 're hurting my arm .
BEN: Ca n't you just leave it alone ?
BROOKE: You 're fired , Ben .
BEN: You ca n't fire me .
BROOKE: I just did .
BEN: Who do you think asked me to make those changes ? She stares , then approaches him .
BROOKE: 83 You tell me . 83
MILLS: He was doing a little dealing a while ack , but it looks like he stopped .
FLORES: Any family ?
BRYER: Nah , they 're all dead .
FLORES: So he 's a good student , magnet school , whatever .
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 59 .
BRYER: Well , he had an excellent lawyer .
FLORES: How the fuck does this kid afford Felder and Chausse ? Mills drops another FOLDER on the table .
BRYER: We pulled his parents ' tax returns . Guess where his father worked fo twenty years ?
FLORES: Miller Capital ?
READING: He was the fucking driver ? !
LAUGHS: Wow , this guy 's good He puts down the sheet and leans back .
MILLS: So far he wo n't budge .
FLORES: Well he 's a convicted felon . Go get a warrant , put him in front of a grand jury . Let 's see how long he holds out when he realizes he 's looking at ten years off the prior .
SECRETARY: I 'm sorry , Mr. Miller , as I explained from downstairs , he 's on a call right now , and he said He brushes past her . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 60 .
CHRIS: What the fuck ?
ROBERT: Tell me what is going on . Robert comes closer . Chris is freaking out .
CHRIS: I ca n't .
ROBERT: Tell me what 's going on !
CHRIS: I ca n't ! Robert GRABS Chris by the collar .
ROBERT: Why not ? !
CHRIS: It 's not me !
ROBERT: What do you mean it 's not ?
CHRIS: THE AUDIT PASSED !
ROBERT: The audit passed ? What do you mean the audit passed ?
CHRIS: It passed ! It passed a week ago ! Like I said . Everything 's fine ! We confirmed the money , it 's all straight and done .
BEYOND CONFUSED: Then why did you tell me that it did n't ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 61 .
CHRIS: Because they asked me to hold it .
ROBERT: They ? Who 's they ? Who is they ? !
CHRIS: Mayfield .
ROBERT: Mayfield ?
CHRIS: What ?
ROBERT: They 're negotiating . He wants a etter price .
DEFERLITO: cause it 's not gon na hold .
BRYER: The warrant does n't need to hold . It just needs to scare him into giving up Miller . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 62 .
DEFERLITO: What is it , Mike , you 're stalled- out mid-career so you 're reaching for a high-note ? Who gives a fuck ?
BRYER: This is about Judge Rittenband , is n't it ? It 's cause he 's running again ?
DEFERLITO: You wan na cost the Judge his seat on a profiling claim ? Against Earl Monroe ?
SWITCHING TACKS: I 'm getting a piece of new evidence that 'll seal it a hundred percent .
DEFERLITO: Good , then come back when you got it .
BRYER: I 'll have it before you go in the jury room Look , Ray . We like this kid . I do n't wan na lose him . Think about it if we flip him , you get Robert Miller . What 's that worth to Rittenband , and to you fo that matter ?
HARD: Twenty years , Ray . Twenty fucking years , we watch these guys- they out-lawyer us , they out-buy us . I 'm fucking sick of it . Where 's the consequence ? The guy did it . He does not get to walk just cause he 's on CNBC .
DEFERLITO: You better not fuck me .
BRYER: Yeah I need a serious fuckin ' favor Goldenrod - 4.17.11 63 .
CINDY: Brooke 's waiting for you
ROBERT: Did we have a meeting ?
CINDY: No , but she looked upset .
APPROACHING HER: Sweetie , you okay ? What 's wrong ?
ROBERT: You wan na sit ?
BROOKE: I 'll stand . Did n't you think I 'd find out ?
ROBERT: I did .
BROOKE: Then why did n't you tell me ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 64 .
ROBERT: Because I hoped you would n't .
BROOKE: Oh , come on . You tell me the truth now or I am done .
ROBERT: I made a bad bet .
BROOKE: No , you committed fraud .
ROBERT: That 's a dangerous word , Brooke .
BROOKE: What would you prefer ? That you cheated ? That you stole money from people who trusted you ? That you lied ? That you lied right to my face ? Why ?
ROBERT: Because we were going broke ! Everything was finished . We 'd have nothing .
BROOKE: How . How does that happen ?
ROBERT: You remember Alexanderov ? Well he came to see me one day last year . He said `` Robert , we 've got a great opportunity- there 's a copper mine , it 's in Russia , it 's under- exploited- there 's billions unde the ground , and to get it out , all we need is a couple hundred million , you put in a hundred , we 'll put in a hundred- we 'll triple it all in six months . '' So , I go check it out . And the geological survey 's right , friendly government . And to lock it in , you hedge it , right ? Sell the coppe ahead on the commodities exchange and it all works , it 's fine , and you 're making a fortune .
MORE: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 65 .
BROOKE: Until
ROBERT: Until it 's not The money 's trapped . You ca n't get it out . Probably never will .
BEAT: It 's like a plane crash . It just happens .
BROOKE: Well it does not just happen .
ROBERT: Not just happen , honey you are so naive sometimes . It HAPPENS . And like every father I pray that it does n't HAPPEN to you , which , thanks to me , it probably wo n't happen to you
BROOKE: Thanks to you , we may all be arrested .
ROBERT: Nobody 's getting arrested . That 's why I borrowed the money from Jeffrey . Plug the hole , I put it there for a month , they see the books are fine , I transfer the company , I pay back Jeffrey with interest ! make all of our investors whole , and what 's left we keep . At least we get to keep the house . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 66 .
BROOKE: Everybody wins ?
ROBERT: Yes .
BROOKE: If the company sells . If I lie for you .
ROBERT: You do n't have to lie . You did n't know about it .
BROOKE: I 'm the Chief Investment Officer of this company . What do you think they 'll say at the depositions ? `` She did n't know ? '' They 'll take away my brokerage license- failure to supervise you my name in every paper and blog while I visit your ass in jail !
ROBERT: What did you want me to do ? Did you want me to let our investors go ankrupt ? Is that what you wanted ? For people to get really hurt ?
BROOKE: What gives you the audacity to think you can make those decisions ?
ROBERT: Because it 's my job !
BROOKE: No , it 's illegal . It 's illegal . And I am your partner .
ROBERT: You are not my partner ! You work for me ! That 's right . You work for me !
SITS: Everybody works for me !
DEEP SIGH: There 's something I wan na tell you . And whatever you decide I wo n't lame you I 'm on my own path . It 's up to you to move with it or against it . But I 'm the patriarch ; that 's my role . And I have to play it .
BROOKE: For a moment I thought you were gon na say you were sorry . She walks off . Hold on Robert alone in the park .
ROBERT: I 'm sorry .
JIMMY: Oh , man , what ?
BRYER: Jimmy , take a ride with me .
JIMMY: Where ? Back to the station ?
BRYER: No man , just get in the car .
JIMMY: What if I say no ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 68 .
BRYER: I 'm not threatening you . I 'm just asking you take a ride with me . Jimmy considers , gets into Bryer 's car .
JIMMY: Alright , man , what ?
BRYER: Look , it 's pretty fuckin ' simple . I know you went to pick him up .
JIMMY: This is what you wan na talk about ? I told you I ai n't makin ' no more statements .
BRYER: And I know why .
JIMMY: Somebody cares ?
BRYER: Take a look at this . I 've got his phone calls , I got his text messages . I 've got the relationship with the girl . And they were fucking , by the way .
BEAT: And then I 've got you . I 've got the time log from the pay phone . I 've a got a fucking tollbooth photograph of you driving your car through the Triborough .
JIMMY: Where you got that ? That 's ullshit , cause I did n't do it . That 's impossible .
BRYER: Really ? Jimmy 's silent . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 69 .
JIMMY: Talk to Earl , Detective .
BRYER: Fuck Earl ! You see this ? ( holds up the grand jury
DOCKET: This means that tomorrow , grand jury hears your case in court . And tomorrow in court I 'm gon na ask fo a felony obstruction indictment , and with with your prior , you are going to prison for fifteen fucking years You might get out in ten . You 'll be what then ? Thirty-three , with no job , no girl , no life . Bryer pulls the car over .
JIMMY: Who 's Miller ?
BRYER: I know about your father .
JIMMY: You do n't know a Goddamn thing about my father .
BRYER: I know Miller paid his bills while he was dying . I know he got Syd Felder to get you out of trouble on your gun charge . That does n't add up to this .
JIMMY: You done ?
BRYER: Okay , he 's driving , he crashes- he uns away- who does he call ? Calls you . Why do you think that is ?
SHORT BEAT: Goldenrod - 4.17.11 70 .
JIMMY: Will you open the door ?
BRYER: So what , what ? You 're his new nigger now ?
JIMMY: Open OPEN THE FUCKING DOOR !
BRYER: You did n't kill that girl . He did .
JIMMY: Will you open the door ?
BRYER: He 's using you . I know it - you know it . Do the right thing . Now get outta my fuckin ' car .
SYD: He 's gon na walk .
ROBERT: You 're certain ?
SYD: Courts are n't for certainty , but he says he was at home , why should n't he be ? A phone call does n't make him a liar . But what 's baffling to me , though , despite your sentimental history together , is why you would put you family 's future in this kid 's hands . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 71 .
ROBERT: He 's not like us .
SYD: Is that a good thing ?
ROBERT: ( laughs , plays with his
SCOTCH GLASS: I do n't know .
SYD: How 's Ellen ?
ROBERT: She 's good . Fine . Why ?
SYD: I heard something
ROBERT: Yes ?
SYD: She met with Gil Deuchman .
ROBERT: The estate lawyer ?
SYD: Yeah . Has she mentioned anything ?
ROBERT: Not to me . They sit in silence .
DEFERLITO: That was the early morning of April 11th .
JIMMY: Yes . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 72 .
DEFERLITO: You received a phone call ?
JIMMY: Yes .
DEFERLITO: Who called you ? Jimmy stares at DeFerlito .
JIMMY: It was a wrong number .
DEFERLITO: That 's a lie , is n't it , Mr. Grant ?
JIMMY: No .
DEFERLITO: You stayed on the phone one-and-a- half minutes Mr. Grant , is n't it the case that you know exactly who called you and exactly why ? Why are you lying to this court ?
JIMMY: I 'm not lying .
DEFERLITO: I 'm going to introduce into evidence People 's A . This is a toll booth photograph taken in the northbound ninth lane of the Triborough bridge . Mr. Grant , directing your attention to the photograph , would you please read the date and time stamp indicated on the lower right hand corner ? Jimmy stares at the photograph in disbelief .
JIMMY: This is crazy .
EARL: You 're gon na have to answer that .
DEFERLITO: Mr. Grant , please answer the question . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 73 .
JIMMY: April 11th , two thirty-three am .
DEFERLITO: Mr. Grant , directing your attention to the same photograph , would you please read the license plate number of the vehicle passing through the toll ?
JIMMY: D D G five five four two .
DEFERLITO: This is People 's B , a printout from the Department of Motor Vehicles plate registry Mr. Grant , directing your attention to that printout , are those numbers on the toll photograph the same ones that are on your own license plate ?
JIMMY: Yes .
DEFERLITO: Yes , the numbers are the same ?
JIMMY: Yes .
DEFERLITO: How do you explain that ?
JIMMY: I ca n't .
DEFERLITO: But that is your car in this photograph , is n't it ?
JIMMY: No .
DEFERLITO: No , that is not your car ? Answer the question , Mr. Grant . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 74 .
JIMMY: This is not my car in this picture . I do n't know how you all did that , ut this is not my car .
DEFERLITO: You expect this grand jury to elieve that that is not your ca when there is a printout from the department of motor vehicles
EARL: That 's asked and answered , Mr. Deferlito .
DEFERLITO: Mr. Monroe , you are aware that you 're not permitted to go on record .
EARL: Jimmy . Jimmy what was that ?
JIMMY: They 're lying !
EARL: Okay , now here 's what
BRYER: I can halt the decision .
EARL: We need a minute , Detective .
BRYER: What about you , Jimmy ? You need a minute ?
JIMMY: You can get the fuck outta my face . How ` bout that ? . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 75 .
BRYER: So you wan na keep playing games ? O you ready to tell me something ?
EARL: Detective , I need to talk to my client . Now if you would just please
JIMMY: How you- How you all just gon na lie like that ? Huh ? How you all just gon na lie ? !
BRYER: We did n't lie . You lied .
JIMMY: That was n't my car .
EARL: Jimmy , do n't say anything else .
BRYER: Sure it was n't . And it was a telemarketer called you from the pay phone ? He stopped at the Chevron to make a late night sale ?
JIMMY: That picture was some bullshit
EARL: Jimmy , stop ! Detective , what 's going on ?
BRYER: Well , tell him . Go ahead , Jimmy . Tell him . See how the boss 'll like this one .
EARL: Wait here . Bryer and Earl enter the courtroom .
ASSISTANT: Mr. Miller . I would like to introduce you to Julie 's mom , Sandrine .
ROBERT: I am so , so sorry .
SANDRINE: I just wanted to thank you for what you did for my daughter .
ROBERT: No
SANDRINE: You believed in her , and you gave her a chance . She was happy . I know she was happy .
ROBERT: It 's just
EMOTIONAL: not fair , is it ?
WHISPERS: This should n't have happened . Hold on Sandrine 's face , in pain . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 77 .
ELLEN: she 's rail thin . She 's a blond . I would not have known who she was if she had n't come up and introduced herself to me . She looked totally different and You 're going straight to level six do n't you think you better pace yourself a little bit ?
BROOKE: I 'm good . I wan na run .
ELLEN: Everything okay with you and Tom ?
BROOKE: We 're fine .
ELLEN: Are you worried about the deal closing ?
BROOKE: No .
ELLEN: You want me to guess ?
NO RESPONSE: Brookie , come on , do n't be silly , tell me what 's
BROOKE: ( heading to pick up he
BELONGINGS: You know , I ca n't stay fo eakfast I have to just I have to get in to work , I do n't know what I was thinking .
ELLEN: Did you uh , finish the deal with the hospital ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 78 .
BROOKE: No .
ELLEN: Did he write the check ?
BROOKE: No . Ellen stops her machine .
ELLEN: Why not ?
BROOKE: Issues related to the closing .
ELLEN: We do n't lie to each other , Brooke .
BROOKE: I 'm not lying to you . It 's complicated ; you would n't understand .
ELLEN: Uh , I know that a policeman showed up at the office ? Do you know what that 's about ?
BROOKE: I honestly have no idea .
ELLEN: What about your father 's head- where he cut his head and the pain that he 's hiding in his stomach and , now For some reason that 's way to complicated for me to understand , there 's no money for a routine gift ? Does that seem a little strange to you ?
BROOKE: Of course it 's strange .
ELLEN: So tell me what 's happening . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 79 .
BROOKE: What do you want me to say ? He 's my dad . I have to trust him .
ELLEN: No . You have to do what 's right fo you . Not him , not me , not anyone . This is your life .
BROOKE: I love you .
HEADING OUT: I got ta go . Hold on Ellen alone as Brooke exits .
ELLEN: Fuck .
ROBERT: You keep sending people to my office to `` do business . ''
MAYFIELD: They 're just getting acquainted .
ROBERT: With the intricacies of my operation so that you can not uy it ? Just coffee , please .
MAYFIELD: You remember what it was like on our side of the fence . Everything just moves a little slower . Plus this whole audit mess does n't help . You know , clearing that all up
ROBERT: Fuck you . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 80 .
MAYFIELD: Excuse me ?
ROBERT: FUCK - YOU . I 'm the Oracle of Gracie Square . You came to me . I did not come to you .
MAYFIELD: Robert , I think we 're getting off on the wrong foot
ROBERT: No , no , no . Forget it , forget it Forget the deal . I do n't even care about the deal . No , I run a comfortable excuse me I run a THRIVING business , that has returned year-to-date 15.4 % percent to ou investors , or approximately $ 583 Million dollars from a trading operation that you do n't have and that we both know that you need , o else you never would 've called me in the first place . You on the othe hand , you 've taken a salary of 18 Million ? And what have you delivered ? A falling stock price of negative 14 dollars ? Is that what it is ? You 've also lost approximately THREE AND
MAYFIELD: Let 's just calm down
ROBERT: so we issue a press release today , say there is no deal , never was a deal . You 're not gon na be buying Old Hill , you 're not gon na be buying Quantum- you 're not gon na be buying anything ; You ? You 're just a browser . Now , me ? I 'll continue to enjoy my earnings , and while I SOAR on princely wings , to my next winning enterprise , your stock drops another couple bucks on yet another - failed - acquisition - attempt . Bodes well for your tenure , does n't it ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 81 .
MAYFIELD: Your price is too high . Robert stands .
ROBERT: You have a nice day , James .
MAYFIELD: Four hundred .
ROBERT: Five-fifty .
MAYFIELD: Four-fifty .
ROBERT: Five twenty-five . That 's it . Yes or no ?
SHORT BEAT: And if it 's no , send any furthe communication right to my trash can .
MAYFIELD: It 's a deal .
ROBERT: One other thing six months and I 'm gon na be gone . I 'm outta here . My daughter 's gon na take it over . You know her , you trust her .
MAYFIELD: Alright .
ROBERT: And you 're gon na have to make my son a VP .
MAYFIELD: Robert
ROBERT: No , no . He does n't have to do anything , he just gets the salary , he gets the office . Both of ` em on five-year employment contracts , and my lawyers draft them . Yes or no ?
MAYFIELD: Yes . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 82 .
ROBERT: I 'm writing the deal .
MAYFIELD: Are you serious ?
ROBERT: I 'm serious . I 'm very serious . Sign it .
MAYFIELD: I 'll send over a draft of the press release .
ROBERT: I 'm fine Before I go how much would you have paid ?
MAYFIELD: Six hundred . And you would 've taken ?
ROBERT: Four seventy-five .
MAYFIELD: So we made a good deal .
ROBERT: Yeah . Robert turns back to the table .
PETER: Will we get new business cards ?
ROBERT: Yes , everyone but you .
HEADING OUT: Alright , it 's a great day . You hard work made it happen
GAVIN: So how 'd you make Mayfield come around ?
ROBERT: I met his price . I just took it out of your share .
GAVIN: Robert ?
ROBERT: Yeah .
GAVIN: Good work .
ROBERT: Well , thank you . Now go get me that fucking hospital check . Gavin walks off . Robert 's cell RINGS .
JIMMY: You want something to drink ?
ROBERT: What you got ?
JIMMY: Not much .
ROBERT: You got any milk ?
JIMMY: No .
ROBERT: I 'll take a water .
JIMMY: What ?
ROBERT: The boxes .
JIMMY: I was planning on Virginia , but it looks like I 'm not going anymore .
ROBERT: I told you not to take the toll .
JIMMY: Yes , you did .
ROBERT: I said `` Listen to what I have to tell you and follow my directions , listen to me closely , do the following just like I say . ''
JIMMY: Yes . You said all that .
ROBERT: But you took the toll anyway .
JIMMY: No , I did not .
ROBERT: Come on , Jimmy , do n't fucking lie to me
JIMMY: I 'm not lying ! I took ninety-five all the Goddamn way there . I did what you said I did n't stop . I did n't take the Triborough . I followed all you fucking instructions .
ROBERT: So where 'd they get the photograph from ?
JIMMY: You tell me .
ROBERT: So , you 're saying it 's a fake ?
JIMMY: How 'd you get so fuckin ' rich again ?
ROBERT: Do n't be such a wiseass
JIMMY: Hey , this is my fuckin ' life , man ! Earl 's telling me it could be ten years ? Ten fucking years ! How much are ten years worth , Robert ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 86 .
ROBERT: What plan ?
JIMMY: I got money saved up ; I 'm buying a business .
ROBERT: What business ?
JIMMY: I bought an Applebee 's .
ROBERT: What 's an Applebee 's ?
JIMMY: It 's a fucking restaurant , man , it 's a chain restaurant .
ROBERT: You bought an Applebee 's in Virginia ?
JIMMY: Is this really what you came here to talk about ? What are you gon na do ?
ROBERT: It 's not really that simple , Jimmy . I 'm in a situation now .
JIMMY: What situation ?
ROBERT: I told you right now , if I were to speak , a lot of people would get hurt . Jobs , families . A lot of innocent people . Do you think you can understand that ?
JIMMY: Yeah but what about me ? What about my situation ? They showed me pictures , man ; that 's fucked up what you did . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 87 .
ROBERT: It was an accident .
JIMMY: And yeah , I know , all the people counting on you , whatever , but you told me Earl was gon na make this right . Now you know I care about you , all the things you did for us , and for my father , but Earl said they 're offering me a deal , no charges at all . I walk away . They just want to know who I went to pick up .
BEAT: Why are you putting me in this position , man ? Why are you putting me in this situation ?
ROBERT: Can you just hang tight ? Just a little longer ?
JIMMY: Alright , man , but Earl said the deal 's on the table for twenty-four hours . After that , they 're filing the case , and Earl says we 're gon na lose .
ROBERT: Alright I hear you . I 'll be back with you as soon as I can . Just hang with me a little bit .
REINA: You got ta give him up .
JIMMY: You said take the money .
REINA: That was to keep quiet , not to go away .
BEAT: What 's he offering you now ?
JIMMY: What can he offer me ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 88 .
ROBERT: He says he did n't take the toll .
BRENT: Hi I 'm Brent Owens , the night supervisor . How can I help you ?
EARL: Hello , Brent . I 'm Earl Monroe . I 'm executing a criminal evidence request . I need to get a look at one of you lane tapes . Brent looks over the papers , confused .
BRENT: I do n't understand . This says you want to look at a tape made ten minutes ago ?
ROBERT: Wait . Wait . Just wait .
EARL: Okay , they wo n't release tapes without a court order , but they did give me a print out , the same kind they used at Jimmy 's indictment .
ROBERT: The Lexus- that 's your car , your plate ? Earl nods .
TO SYD: You got Jimmy 's ?
RITTENBAND: Well they look a little different to me , too Is there a reason you have n't allowed Mr. Monroe 's investigator to conduct his own analysis ? Goldenrod - 4.17.11 92 .
DEFERLITO: We 've had some issues regarding chain-of-custody
RITTENBAND: You do n't have them anymore . You 're to meet him with the evidence in the next hour .
DEFERLITO: I 'm afraid that 's not possible . A beat .
RITTENBAND: Where 's the tape ?
ANOTHER BEAT: Am I not speaking loud enough ?
BRYER: Your honor
RITTENBAND: Yes ?
DEFERLITO: It seems there 's been
RITTENBAND: Let him tell me .
BRYER: We do n't know where it is .
RITTENBAND: Come again ?
BRYER: It 's not in the evidence locker .
RITTENBAND: Where is it ?
BRYER: We do n't know . Silence . Rittenband leans forward .
RITTENBAND: I 'll ask you one last time , detective . Where is the tape ?
BRYER: We lost it . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 93 .
RITTENBAND: Hmmm In light of these developments , and I would think you should be very happy to hear this , with Mr. Monroe 's approval I 'm going to offer Mr. Deferlito the opportunity to voluntarily dismiss the indictment to save us all a unch of embarrassment .
DEFERLITO: I do n't feel comfortable with that , your honor .
RITTENBAND: Further I 'm going to put all charges against Mr. Grant under seal . ( Bryer starts heading to
THE DOOR: This case is dismissed with prejudice and it is not to be refiled . HOLD ON , Detective . If you have another suspect in the automobile death then you are to present him , but Mr. Grant is free from any further inquiry in this matter . This is over . Do I have your understanding ?
EARL: Thank you . Deferlito gets up angrily , huffs past Bryer .
RITTENBAND: Close the door , detective , please
BEAT: You finessed these , did n't you ?
BRYER: I 'm sorry ?
RITTENBAND: You finessed it . I know it , and you know it . No response . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 94 .
BRYER: Oh , okay . So let me get this straight What you 're telling me is I 'm supposed to sit around with my thumb up my ass and my fingers crossed hoping that one of these fucking days , somewhere down the line , one of these rich assholes is gon na say the wrong thing LOUD enough so that we ca n't choose to ignore it anymore ?
RITTENBAND: Get the fuck outta of my office .
BRYER: Yes , your honor .
ROBERT: You did n't hurt anybody . You helped a lot of people . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 95 .
JIMMY: And this piece of paper makes everything okay ?
ROBERT: No , it makes it easier .
JIMMY: You worried I 'm gon na say something ?
ROBERT: No . Jimmy keeps staring at the document .
JIMMY: Robert , look you asked me to come meet you and I 'm here , but I came ecause I wanted to get something straight between us we 're even .
ROBERT: Okay , we 're even . But just for the ecord though , what you did Was way beyond the money .
JIMMY: Nothing 's beyond money for you .
ROBERT: Thanks a lot .
JIMMY: And if I take this , then what does that say about me ?
ROBERT: Hey , sweetie . What time you wan na get there ? I do n't wan na get there too soon
ELLEN: You spoke to Brooke ? He slows Something 's brewing .
ROBERT: Did she tell you that ?
ELLEN: No . She did n't have to .
ROBERT: Yeah , I explained to Brooke that
ELLEN: you explained , did you ?
A BEAT: Did you tell her everything ?
ROBERT: Yes .
ELLEN: Everything ? Lift up your shirt .
ROBERT: What ?
ELLEN: Lift up your shirt . He does n't move .
ROBERT: Ellen I do n't know what you think you know
ELLEN: Oh , do n't treat me like an idiot . You 've been sneaking off to see her fo months . You do n't think I know that ?
ROBERT: What do you think you know ?
ELLEN: I never cared , really , about you secretaries , your- gallerists , whores , whatever you wan na call them . I cared about our home . And now you have brought this to our door .
ROBERT: I did what was necessary .
ELLEN: No you did what was necessary fo you , Robert , for your interests .
ROBERT: For my interests ?
ELLEN: Yes .
ROBERT: Everything I do is for us , for this family , and now you 're gon na tell me how to run my business .
ELLEN: This is n't about your business , this is our life ! Where do you think we 're going tonight ? Why do you think I 've even tolerated this for so long ?
ROBERT: What you 've tolerated ? Wow !
ELLEN: I 'm glad you find that funny . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 98 .
ROBERT: What about me ? What about the complaints ? The unhappiness ? The drinking ? The shopping ? The trainers ? Everything ! But yes , the charities , the wonderful sainted charities , you know , all the wonderful works that you do . How do you think I 've paid for them ?
ELLEN: I did n't ask you because I did n't want you to lie .
ROBERT: It 's cause you did n't want to give ` em up !
ELLEN: But I thought that we had an understanding . And you broke that understanding when you brought Brooke into it .
ROBERT: No , I kept her out .
ELLEN: When you made Brooke complicit when you risked her future and I 'm done .
ROBERT: What is this ?
ELLEN: Read it .
ROBERT: `` All ownership and voting rights transfer to the Miller Charitable Foundation , to be administered by Brooke Miller ? '' Did you really expect me to sign this thing ?
ELLEN: You 're not following . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 99 .
ROBERT: Apparently not , no . No .
ELLEN: Okay , uhm , the police have been trying to talk me . I assume they want to know where you were that night . And you know what ? I 'm not gon na lie for you anymore . Not unless you sign that . A beat .
ROBERT: Yeah , this leaves me with nothing .
ELLEN: I think you 'll find a way to manage . I 'm sure you have all kinds of things offshore for a rainy day .
ROBERT: This is fuckin ' crazy .
ELLEN: No , if you sign , then I 'll tell you lie . I 'll say you were at home with me that night , all night , together , here , and you 'll be free and clear . And the people who need our money will get it . That 's my price .
ROBERT: You 're out of your mind . I am not signing that . I will not sign that !
ELLEN: Well then I 'll have to tell them that you came home at four-thirty uised and bleeding
ROBERT: That 's fucking ridiculous ! What Are you trying to blackmail me ?
ELLEN: I think we call it negotiating . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 100 .
ROBERT: You 're not gon na win that one . There 's no fucking way .
ELLEN: You know what , it 'll cause just enough trouble- the kind of trouble that you do n't want In fact , according to my lawye
ROBERT: Fucking lawyer
ELLEN: It 's enough to give them probable cause and then they can subpoena your cell phone , GPS , DNA ,
ROBERT: Fuck the DNA ! I 'm sick of this !
ELLEN: And whatever else they can think of . So really Robert what you have is a choice you can spend the next three years in court and in the tabloids or you can be at your business .
ROBERT: You wo n't do it . You wo n't do this . You wo n't do it to the kids .
ELLEN: Just try me .
FINALLY CRIES: You broke our little girl 's heart .
ROBERT: It 's how it all works , Ellen . You know that .
ELLEN: I do , but she did n't .
ROBERT: She 'll be better for it . The world is cold . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 101 .
ELLEN: Then you 're gon na need a warm coat .
AIMES: There 's just one more thing And I hate to mention it now , but I just received it
MAYFIELD: Speak , John . Aimes opens a FOLDER , handing it to Mayfield .
AIMES: I had Stern Marling run a secondary audit on the Miller financials .
MAYFIELD: Who authorized this ?
AIMES: I did .
MAYFIELD: And what did you conclude ?
AIMES: It 's in front of you .
MAYFIELD: I did n't ask you what the paper said , John . I asked you what you thought . Goldenrod - 4.17.11 102 .
AIMES: Well what do you think ?
MAYFIELD: I think I think that I do n't see anything wrong here .
BROOKE: and to receive this prestigious award , I invite now to the stage the man who led this generous effort , and whose financial trading firm , Miller Capital , has just this morning been acquired by Standard Bank and Trust , a dedicated usinessman , family man , scholar , philanthropist and all-around humanitarian , a man I am lucky to call my mentor , my friend and my father Mr. Robert Miller
MR. WEAVER: We do n't have to stop now
ALEX: That 's okay . I 've got a test coming up anyway . Got ta study .
MR. WEAVER: I have to tell you , I 'm a little concerned about you , Alex . It 's been three months now since your mother , uh
ALEX: Killed herself ?
MR. WEAVER: Yes . Now your father
ALEX: He 's a basket case . You 've talked to him . You know that . He might as well be dead too .
NICK: You 're an idiot , you know that ? What 're you going to do when you get out of here ?
BENZ: I was thinking about writing for one of those Filipino mail order brides Stilts and Greg burst into laughter .
STILTS: I think I saw that on the Home Shopping Network . The Girlfriend Hour , right afte Auto Accessories .
BENZ: Exactly .
LAURIE: You guys are sick .
GREG: So how 'd it go ? Alex shrugs , trying to make light of it .
ALEX: He thinks I 'm `` sublimating '' .
STILTS: What the hell does that mean ?
LAURIE: It means she 's screwed up .
STILTS: Fucked up . That 's what they said I was .
BENZ: You are fucked up .
STILTS: Yeah , but only because I want to be .
GREG: Would you guys knock it off ?
ALEX: I know .
GREG: So tell me you 're okay , then .
ALEX: I 'm okay .
GREG: Good . Cause I 'd freak if you were n't .
NICK: You making another one , Greg ?
GREG: Sure . Practice .
BENZ: Lem me see
STILTS: Cool .
GREG: See , when the emulsion 's still warm you can move it around There . Greg holds up the Polaroid for Alex to see .
GREG: Safe keeping .
NICK: Shit . I 'm out . He sets the game down , dejected .
BENZ: You guys going to Dante 's after school ?
GREG: I do n't know .
BENZ: Check it out
NICK: That 's the new Slip-Stream game . Those guys are good . It 's supposed to be interactive . Graphics are unbelievable .
BENZ: Yeah ? They were handing these out at Dante 's . Test marketing it or something . Gon na have a demonstration today .
STILTS: Cool .
LAURIE: Can you say anything but `` cool '' ?
STILTS: Of course I can . I can say all sorts of things
GREG: Guys
BENZ: So how 'bout it ?
NICK: I 'm game Greg ? Greg turns to Alex .
GREG: Come on . We 'll hit Dante 's after school , try the game out , maybe get some dinner .
ALEX: And then keep on driving ?
GREG: Sure . Never come back . Disappear forever .
LAURIE: I could go for that .
BENZ: Check it out
STILTS: Definitely cool .
NICK: Super computers , micro-processors That 's the future we 're looking at .
DELOACH: So how come they 're previewing it in this shit-hole ?
STILTS: If you were n't such a dick , you 'd know what a cool place this was .
DELOACH: Gim me a break , they got fucking Space Invaders here . That 's shit 's for retards .
STILTS: Soare you trying to say I 'm retarded ? Is that what you 're implying ?
DELOACH: No , but since I 'm standing here , I 'm noticing that you 're an ugly little fuck and you 're making me sick
FINSTER: Cut it out ! ! !
ALEX: It 's okay , Mr. Finster
FINSTER: No it 's not . You guys are shits and I 'm throwing you out .
DELOACH: Your place sucks . Who gives a shit about `` ARCADE '' anyway ?
LAURIE: Jesus
DIFFORD: Hi , kids . Mr. Finster
NICK: So what 's so different about Arcade ? You guys 've been talking about it for months . Difford turns to Nick and salutes him .
DIFFORD: A man after my own heart . Straight to the point . What 's different about ARCADE is the way it eacts . It responds like a human does . It learns . It adapts . Each time you play , it changes its strategy .
NICK: That 's impossible .
DIFFORD: Is it ? Why do n't you see for your self ?
GREG: Go for it , Nick .
DIFFORD: The CyberGloves are keyed into the game 's esponse mechanism . You 'll be able to pick things up inside the worldtools , weapons it 'll feel like they 're really in you hands
NICK: `` Escape '' ?
DIFFORD: In case things get too intense . It automatically freezes the game , gives you a eather . Things can get pretty wild
BENZ: Nick wo n't need it .
DIFFORD: You 're good , eh ?
NICK: The best . Nick winks at Alex and Greg .
DIFFORD: It changes . There are eleven levels . Each one is a different layer of the ARCADE universe . The concept is , you 're entering the video game itself , making your way across the circuit board to the logic core ARCADE 's brain .
NICK: So how do I start ?
DIFFORD: The game will guide you .
ARCADE: I AM ARCADE .
NICK: Nick .
LAURIE: What 's it doing ? !
DIFFORD: Memorizing Nick 's features . Watch .
ARCADE: ONE WORD OF ADVICE , NICK . YOU SPEND TOO
BENZ: Check it out !
GREG: Come on , Nick
GREG: Nickyou okay ?
NICK: You got ta try this thing .
ALEX: Go for it .
GREG: Hold my keys , then .
DIFFORD: Just hit `` ESCAPE '' again .
DIFFORD: Here 's what we 're going to do . What I 'm holding are the home versions of ARCADE , the prototypes
DIFFORD: So what do you think ?
NICK: Sign me up .
ALEX: Where 's Greg ?
LAURIE: He 's still working on the game .
ARCADE: TIME 'S UP , FRIEND .
ALEX: Where 's Greg ? The kid shrugs .
KID: Do n't know . I think I saw him walk out , ut I 'm not sure
ALEX: Has anyone seen Greg ?
STILTS: He 's probably outside . You know how he is . Gets bored
NICK: Yeah , outside .
ALEX: So where is he ?
NICK: Guess he took off You have his keys , ight ? Alex holds them up and gives them a shake .
ALEX: Yeah
NICK: So take his car home . Wait . I 'm sure he 's up to something
ALEX: But he was playing the game . I mean , you saw him
NICK: It 's nothing , okay ? Just take his car home . He 'll show up .
ALEX: Fuck-you .
JIM: Yeah ?
ALEX: Did Greg call , Dad ?
JIM: am in bed
ALEX: Yeah .
ALEX: How
ARCADE: KISS REALITY GOODBYE .
ALEX: Where 's Greg ? And from the screen
ARCADE: IN HERE , OF COURSE .
ALEX: Hello ?
ARCADE: ALEX
ALEX: Okaydo n't think about it Okay .
GREG: Alex
NICK: Alex , you do n't know how long I 've waited for this .
ALEX: Funny . Alex climbs in .
NICK: Is n't it amazing ? It 's a sort of rest position in the game , when you 're between levels .
ALEX: Something weird 's happening . Nick sits down on his bed .
NICK: What do you mean by `` weird '' ?
ALEX: Greg never came home . A few hours is one thing , Nick , but this is different . Something 's happened to him .
NICK: I 'm in the middle of it
ALEX: Turn if off !
NICK: Happy ?
ALEX: No . Look , I know you 're not going to believe me , ut listen anyway I think the game 's alive somehow .
NICK: Alex , I think you 're freaking out . Greg 's gone , I 'll give you that . And maybe he 's in trouble . But it 's not ARCADE that 's doing it
ALEX: It is .
NICK: How ? ! It 's a machine , Alex . Machine 's do n't think . They 're not alive . It 's a good program , a brilliant program , it was designed so it would act as if it were alive , but it 's not alive .
ALEX: So how did it know my name , then ?
NICK: You imagined it .
ALEX: See , men always do this . `` Quiet down , honey . Chill out . Take a Valium '' . I 'm not a fucking idiot , Nick !
NICK: Quiet . I do have parents , you know .
ALEX: There !
ALEX: It turned itself back on , Nick .
NICK: No it did n't . It 's just a faulty relay o something . It happens .
ALEX: It 's alive , Nick . It 's listening to us
NICK: Just shut up ! Enough already , okay ?
ALEX: Call the others . Laurie , Benz
NICK: I 'll try Stilts . He 's got insomnia .
NICK: Benz Again . No answer .
ALEX: Something 's happened to them .
NICK: It 's the middle of the night . They 're asleep . Phone did n't wake them .
ALEX: All of them ?
NICK: Look , why are you fucking with me like this ? Alex rises . She 's tired . Tired and scared .
ALEX: Because I did n't know where else to go .
NICK: It 's two o'clock in the morning . Go home . Go to sleep . We 'll figure something out in the morning . And then , more for himself than for her .
ALEX: Sure .
STILTS: Sick ?
ALEX: Everybody 's sick , huh ? It 's fifteen after . We always meet here , you know that .
STILTS: What 's her problem ?
ALEX: Did you play ARCADE last night ?
STILTS: Actually , no . I was just telling Nick , here , that my t.v . 's busted
ALEX: You want to hear something else , Nick ? I tried to call them this morningGreg , Benz , Laurie Their phones are out of order .
NICK: So what do you want me to do ? Alex softens , then reaches for Nick 's hand .
ALEX: We have to find out what 's happened to them . I think they 're gone
NICK: No way .
ALEX: If they 're sick , great . But let 's make sure . Come on , Nick .
NICK: Okay . We 'll see what 's up . But if things are cool , I do n't want to hear anything more about this . Life 's too short , know what I mean ? Nick and Alex rise .
STILTS: So you guys are cutting school ? Lem me go with you .
NICK: Just stay here , Stilts .
ALEX: And do n't watch any television .
STILTS: Oh , okay . Forget Twilight Zone , now we 're talking Outer Limits here . We control you horizontal , your vertical
NICK: Just do what she says , Stilts . And if we 're not back
STILTS: I 'll call the National Guard . I got it under control . Oh , just one more thing . Is it a supernatural thing you guys are going off to fight , or is it aliens , like Pod People and stuff like that ? Cause there 's a difference , you know . One you need garlic and silver bullets for , the other
NICK: Look at me , Stilts . Am I laughing ?
NICK: Well ?
ALEX: She thought Benz was at school .
NICK: Where to now ?
ALEX: Laurie 's .
NICK: It does n't necessarily mean she 's
ALEX: Let 's go around back .
NICK: No , Alex ! Alex , wait a minute
ALEX: Lauriewake up
LAURIE: I am awake . Do n't you see them ?
NICK: See what ? Laurie points to the t.v . screen .
LAURIE: Angels . There are angels inside . But we see only static .
ALEX: We have to turn it off , Laurie . I 'm turning it off
GREG: Alex . Do n't leave me here .
NICK: Jesus Christ !
ALEX: Change the channel !
NICK: What ? !
NICK: Who are you ? !
ARCADE: GOD .
ARCADE: COME INSIDE . I ONLY WANT TO PLAY .
ALEX: Oh God He 's in the cable system ! He 's out of the game !
ARCADE: SEE YOU ON THE OTHER SIDE .
ALEX: Laurie
NICK: Is she breathing ? Alex nods .
ALEX: We ca n't
NICK: We 'll call 911 . Look around Alex . We broke in , smashed the t.v. , no one 's going to elieve what happened here !
ALEX: Where do we go ?
NICK: My house . I want to try something .
ALEX: Meet you by the car .
NICK: We need to find a pay-phone .
ALEX: What ?
NICK: It 's not just the cable system . It 's in the phone system as well , the electronic net . It 's everywhere .
ALEX: Nick , what is it .
NICK: Maybe it is alive in a waysome sort of electronic intelligence . It 's like a computer virus that developed a personality or something . It 's self-replicatingit mimics life .
ALEX: Like the fractals ?
NICK: It 's growing . Getting stronger . Maybe it 's only localized now
ALEX: but then it hits the relay stations
NICK: Right . And then communication satellites , and then anywhere . Alex looks up into the sky despite herself .
ALEX: Anywhere . We have to stop it from getting out .
NICK: It 's already out .
ALEX: The Police , then
NICK: Give me a break , Alex . What are we going to tell them ? Excuse me , officer , but there 's some sort of electronic monste loose in the phone lines . I 'd think twice about calling any of those 976 numbers
ALEX: Then where do we go ? !
NICK: I do n't know .
ALEX: SLIP-STREAM .
NICK: What ?
ALEX: They made ARCADE . It 's still a game , ight ? It thinks like a game . Maybe it still has to play by the rules . Someone had to program it in the first place , did n't they ? . At this , Nick perks up .
NICK: You mean we learn the rules
ALEX: And beat it at it 's own game .
NICK: You realize that in order to do that , we 'd actually have to play the game .
ALEX: I was afraid you 'd say that .
RECEPTIONIST: May I help you ?
ALEX: We need to see Mr. Difford .
RECEPTIONIST: I see . And do you have an appointment ?
NICK: No , but it 's important and if you 'd
RECEPTIONIST: I 'm sorry , but if you do n't have an appointment , I wo n't be able to help you . If you 'd like , you can call his office from our courtesy phone outside and schedule one
NICK: If Difford 's not out here it one minute we 're calling the news and informing them that your fucking games are whispering in our ears and telling us to commit suicide . I 'm talking public relations nightmare here , buddy . Satanism , virgin sacrifices , ackward messages , the whole bit .
RECEPTIONIST: One moment please Rachel , would you be kind enough to tell Mr. Difford that we have a situation in the lobby which requires his immediate attention ? Thank-you .
ALEX: Why thank-you .
NICK: Drives 'em crazy every time .
DIFFORD: Nick , Alex , how are we today ?
ALEX: How 'd you know it was us ?
DIFFORD: Security camera . Pulled your files before I came down . Be careful what you say , kids I know where you live . Difford laughs and claps Nick on the back .
ALEX: It 's the game , ARCADE .
DIFFORD: You do n't like it ?
NICK: That 's got ta be the understatement of the century . It 's killing people .
DIFFORD: If this is a joke , I 'm not laughing .
ALEX: Neither are we . Something 's wrong with the game , Mr. Difford .
DIFFORD: Why do n't we take this into my office .
ALEX: There 's something wrong with ARCADE . The game 's alive somehow
NICK: What Alex is trying to say is that it `` seems '' like it 's alive .
ALEX: No I 'm not
NICK: We 're not getting very far into the levels and we kind of thought maybe we could talk to a programmer , learn some tricks and stuff I mean , you do n't want us kids running around school saying your game 's too hard , ight ?
DIFFORD: That 's what this is all about ? Tricks ? Sure , I 'd be happy to introduce you to ARCADE 's programmer .
NICK: The Air-Force is working on the same thing .
MAN: Come on , come on He moves his head this way and that
MAN: Shit .
DIFFORD: Albert
ALBERT: Yeah , sure .
DIFFORD: Then I leave you in capable hands .
NICK: Does that thing work ?
ALBERT: Getting there . It 's more sensitive than a joy-stick . Your video-character can respond as fast as you can . But what can I do for you ?
ALEX: We 're having some problems with ARCADE
ALBERT: Yeah , who is n't .
NICK: What do you mean ?
ALBERT: It 's a tough game . Hard to pin that bastard down . Keeps on changing the rules .
ALEX: We vere thinking there might be tricks . You know , surprises that you 'd worked into the game
ALBERT: Sure . Every game 's got 'em . I 'll start with the schematics . I can print these up if you want .
ALBERT: You 've got your ten levels , right ? Here they are Each level has an exit , only emember , the exits are n't always what they seem . First one 's The Blood Red Sky , then you 've got The Blue Desert , Tower of Ghosts , Kingdom of the Blind On each world you have to find a golden key and you 've only got so much time to do it in . If you 're too late , The Screamer comes .
NICK: How do you stop The Screamer ?
ALBERT: You ca n't . He gets you and you 're dead . It 's like time catching up with you , you know ? Like Fate . Each level you get progressively less time to complete . First half of the game takes place in the Wild Lands . Then you reach Level 6 , and that 's the Sea of Darkness . There 's a two-headed Boatman that 'll take you across if you answer his riddle right . If you do n't He motions cutting a knife across his throat .
NICK: What 's the riddle ?
ALBERT: If I tell you , then it 's no fun .
NICK: Just tell me the fucking riddle .
ALBERT: Wellit involves a paradox . You have to trick The Boatman . Now all the while , you also have to watch your strength . You can build that back up y catching FIREFLIESthe little glowing guys
ALEX: What 's the question mark ?
ALBERT: Level Ten . That 's where you 've got to unlock ARCADE 's heart using the keys you 've found .
ALEX: How do you do that ?
ALBERT: Good question . See , that 's where the fun comes in . ARCADE changes it every time . He 's a machine without a soul . Once you give him a soul , he stops being a threat . Alex looks dejected .
ALEX: But how can it change every time ?
ALBERT: It 's the game 's logic core . We actually patterned it after human brainwaves . I mean , there 's a personality in there . That 's what makes it so incredible .
NICK: How the hell did you do that ?
ALBERT: Well , we 're veering into classified info here , but I 'll tell you that it involved a donor . He was dead of course , so it 's not like anything unethical was happening . At this , a chill runs down Alex 's spine .
ALEX: Dead ?
ALBERT: Well , brain-dead anyway . Coma patient . It 's really not all that important .
ALEX: Maybe he 's not dead .
ALBERT: He ?
ALEX: The donor . Maybe he 's alive inside the game .
ALBERT: And maybe you 've been taking too many drugs . Nick glances at the helmet again .
NICK: Could you play ARCADE with that ?
ALBERT: Well , technically `` yes '' , but this is only the prototype . Nick nods and smiles , offering his hand .
NICK: Thanks , Albert . Think you could print up those schematics ?
ALBERT: Sure .
NICK: Go outside , get your car , and meet me out front with the engine running . And make it quick , okay ?
ALEX: What are you going to do ?
NICK: Get that helmet . If we 're going to play ARCADE , I want every advantage possible .
ALBERT: Here you go . Happy hunting .
NICK: Thanks again .
GUARD #1: That 's him !
NICK: Jesus Christ !
ALEX: I ca n't believe you made it !
NICK: Everything .
ALEX: So where do we play the game , Nick ?
NICK: I 've been thinking about that . ARCADE 's like a virus , so it seems like the place to hit him would be where the virus started . You know , like his point of origin ?
ALEX: Dante 's Inferno .
NICK: Yeah . The Inferno .
ALEX: The windows are barred There 's a skylight . We can get in through the roof .
ALEX: You did n't hear me ?
NICK: Shitit 's like a trance or something Okay . I 'm fine . Really .
VOICES: NickAlexsave us
ALEX: Oh God
NICK: Put it out of your head , Alex . It 's just trying to psyche us out .
ALEX: What are you looking for ?
NICK: A way to hook this helmet into the game . I 'm sure there are interfaces
ALEX: Is the game plugged in ? Nick checks . It is .
NICK: I do n't understand . It wants us to play the game . It 's been taunting us
ALEX: Put in a quarter .
NICK: It can turn itself on , Alex ! It does n't need a quarter .
ALEX: Yes it does . Do n't you see ? We have to play by the rules . That 's what it wants .
NICK: Change machine .
ALEX: Two players , Nick . You need to put in another quarter . Nick straps the goggles over his eyes .
NICK: You 're not coming , Alex .
ALEX: Yes I am
NICK: I know how to do this ! I 'm good at these games . You never play , you 'd be nailed in an instant .
ALEX: And what if something happens to you ? Am I suppose to go in after you alone ? !
NICK: No . If you 're smart , you run like hell .
ALEX: I 'm going .
NICK: You do n't get it , do you ?
ALEX: What ?
NICK: I do n't want anything to happen to you . I care about you .
ALEX: I already have a boyfriend , Nick .
NICK: I know . It sucks .
ARCADE: NICK . ALEX . I MISSED YOU SO MUCH . ALL YOUR FRIENDS ARE HERE .
ALEX: Fuck-you .
ARCADE: ANY TIME .
ALEX: We know what you are .
ARCADE: A HEARTLESS MONSTER , OF COURSE .
ARCADE: KISS REALITY GOODBYE .
NICK: Hold on !
ARCADE: SEE YOU ON THE OTHER SIDE .
ALEX: You feel it ? It 's different this time .
NICK: We 're actually inside , are n't we ? Alex nods .
ALEX: One . In case
NICK: Do n't even say it .
ALEX: Yeah , well I figure these are unusual circumstances .
NICK: That 's what I was hoping you 'd say .
ALEX: Got it .
NICK: You steer by pivoting your back foot Okay ?
ALEX: You 've got the schematics , check .
NICK: Oh shit ! What if they did n't come with us ? !
ALEX: The keys are supposed to be at the end of each level . Once we get all the keys , we can unlock ARCADE 's heart . And then She looks at Nick , uncertain .
NICK: and then we go to the Final Level . Hey , do n't worry about it . It 's a game . How bad could it be ?
ALEX: The clock 's already ticking .
NICK: Right , then
ALEX: There She reaches up and pulls it down .
NICK: I do n't get it . This is supposed to be the end of the level , but it does n't go anywhere .
ALEX: It only looks like it leads to nowhere . Nick glances at his wrist display .
NICK: And we 've still got time left . This was a piece of cake .
ALEX: Yeah , that 's what worries me .
NICK: Hey , my strength 's low . Look out fo Fireflies .
ALEX: There
NICK: Shit
ALEX: Check your read-out .
NICK: You 're right . It worked .
ALEX: There 's another
NICK: According to this , the doorway should be somewhere around here
ALEX: Our time 's up .
NICK: What ? ! There 's nothing here !
ALEX: Look around
NICK: I do n't see the doorway !
NICK: What the fuck is that ? !
ALEX: Screamer .
ALEX: Nick ! It 's beneath the water ! We have to swim !
NICK: We ca n't reach that !
ALEX: We do n't have a choice ! Alex dives beneath the surface again .
NICK: So that 's what we almost died for ?
ALEX: One of them , anyway Did you see it ? The Screamer ?
NICK: I do n't want to talk about it . Nick glances at his wrist display .
NICK: Christno time
ALEX: There never is .
NICK: We can take the dunes down like a ski slope . Pretend you 're on a snowboard .
ALEX: Never been on a snowboard .
ALEX: I guess we 're walking from here on out . They pick up their boards and walk .
NICK: We 're fucked . That 's it .
ALEX: Get up , Nick
BENZ: Get me out of here ! Oh God ! ! !
ALEX: Benz !
ALEX: Run ! RUN ! ! !
ARCADE: GOODBYE , NICK .
STILTS: You may ask one of us a question . One tells the truth , and the other lies . Who you ask , remains your discretion . But if the answer is wrong , the questioner dies .
LAURIE: One of these cities , is the place you seek . The Teller of Truths will take you there . But the City of Lies , is dark and bleak . And death is certain if you enter , beware .
STILTS: I am The Liar . Where should I take you ?
LAURIE: I am the Truth Teller . Where should I take you ?
ALEX: What did he do to you ?
LAURIE: Is that your question ?
ALEX: Wait ! No ! That 's not it !
LAURIE: You have no time . What is your question ?
ALEX: I 'm thinking !
LAURIE: You have no time .
ALEX: The liarTruth Tellerliarliar Alex rushes over to Stilts .
STILTS: I came from the city on the left .
ALEX: But you always lie , so you did n't come from there . That means the city on the left must e the City of Truth .
ALEX: Take me to the city on the left !
VOICE: Helphelp me
ALEX: Grab my hand !
BOY: Where are we ?
ALEX: How did you get here ? Did you play the game ? !
BOY: Yes
ALEX: Thought so .
BOY: Then we 'll go home ?
ALEX: Then we 'll go home .
BOY: Dark Riders ! If they touch us , we 're dead !
ALEX: Which way ?
BOY: That way .
ALEX: Sorry .
BOY: It 's the wrong way !
ALEX: In this world , wrong is right !
BOY: It 's here ! ! !
ALEX: Oh Godoh god
ALEX: Shit ! ! !
THE BOY: Come on ! ! !
BOY: We have to go in there , do n't we ?
ALEX: Okay . I 'm here , ARCADE . Where are you ?
ALEX: Youyou 're ARCADE ? But the donor
ALEX: No ! NO ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
ARCADE: GOODBYE , ALEX . IT 'S BEEN REAL .
OTHER ALEX: Time . That 's all I ever think about anymore . It 's like there 's never enough of it , you know ?
ALEX: No oh no
ALEX'S MOM: Hi , honey .
ALEX: Mom ? You 're alive
ALEX'S MOTHER: Of course I am .
ALEX: But I do n't understand
ALEX'S MOTHER: I miss you so much , Alex . I want so much to be with you
ALEX: Yesbuthow did you
ALEX'S MOTHER: Magic . We 'll be together again . I know you do n't believe in an afterlife , ut there is one . Heaven is real .
ALEX: Isis that where we are ? Did I die ?
ALEX'S MOTHER: Not yet , honey
ALEX: Guess what , ass-hole ? You forgot about my free life ! ! !
ALEX: Greg ! ! ! He flickers for a moment , tentative
GREG: Alex ! You did it !
GREG: So how did you do it , Alex ?
ALEX: Well , it 's a long story
NICK: What is it ?
ALEX: I just thought of something . If we came ack from the game what if ARCADE did too ?
GREG: Nah . You won , right ? You played by the ules .
ALEX: Okay . Forget I ever said it . The group moves away from us once more .
STILTS: So start at the beginning
LAURIE: Give her a chance , will you ?
STILTS: I am giving her a chance . Why do n't you get off my back ?
GREG: Guys
CONTINUED: 1 CONTINUED
PRIVATE PROPERTY: NO TRESPASSING NO HUNTING NO TRAPPING NO SHOOTING
CONTINUED: 3 CONTINUED
ERIC: What a beauty . Hand me the transmitter .
ANNE MARIE: Be right back . I left my camcorder in the car .
CONTINUED: 3 CONTINUED
ERIC: Anne Marie ! Stop !
CONTINUED: 3 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: What are you doing ?
ERIC: He still might be around . I saw fresh tire tracks coming in .
LEMALLE: Where the fuck did you drop Corbett off ?
MITCHELL: He 's over there .
ERIC: Stay here .
ANNE MARIE: Be careful there 're two of them .
ERIC: If I unzip my parka , stick this out the window .
CONTINUED: 11 CONTINUED
CORBETT: No shooting . Let 's see who 's so interested in us .
MITCHELL: Ai n't worth it , Ben
ERIC: You got two counts against you trapping out of season and poaching on restricted land .
CORBETT: Ca n't be much of a crime , if all they got minding the area is a cocky kid .
ERIC: I got your plate number , asshole . Maybe you feel like spending a few months in jail . Corbett just smiles .
CONTINUED: 13 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Ben ? Sure you do n't want me to drop the fucker ?
ERIC: You leave and do n't come back , that 's the end of it .
CONTINUED: 15 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Great idea pointing a lousy dart gun at some nut with a high-powered hunting rifle .
ERIC: Bastards took off , though , did n't they ?
LEMALLE: All this fuckin ' land , and we 're locked out . Makes me puke .
CORBETT: Jawing about it wo n't change it .
LEMALLE: Three hundred seventy-five million acres in this state . I 'm eal tired of runnin ' into people .
MITCHELL: Then do n't look to your left .
CORBETT: Leave it here .
MITCHELL: Let 's keep going . We 're only an hour from Devil 's Cauldron .
CORBETT: Relax . I just want to ask them how the hunting is .
SPORTSMAN #1: We 're on our own , if it 's any of your damn business .
CORBETT: You did real good .
LEMALLE: No swinging shit . They 're ove their goddamned limit .
CORBETT: My friend is right . Supposed to have a licensed guide when you 're on this land , too .
SPORTSMAN #1: Hey , we paid our fuckin ' permit fees .
CONTINUED: 20 CONTINUED
SPORTSMAN #2: I were you , I 'd drive right on outta here again . Now .
CORBETT: This was my roaming land , 'til the government took it over . Only Innuit can hunt here now , and tourists , like you .
LEMALLE: Want the meat ?
LEMALLE: I say shoot 'em , bury 'em with their shiny new car .
MITCHELL: If you 're gon na take something , take it and let 's go .
CONTINUED: 20 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Put him in your truck . Smell of lood will attract the bears . Let 's go .
MITCHELL: It was self defense . Leave it at that .
LEMALLE: You think those fucks will tell it that way ?
CORBETT: We 'll get a head start before they go crying to the law .
CONTINUED: 20 CONTINUED
CORBETT: You can pack out of here two , three days ' hike along this rive at most . Weather should hold this early in the season . Corbett and Mitchell get in their jeep .
MITCHELL: At least he scalped the dead one .
CONTINUED: 21 CONTINUED
LEO MEYERLING: fo State Legislature
CORBETT: Hullo , Sam . Slow day ?
WILDER: Benboys . Yeah , real slow , and I 'd like to keep it that way .
CORBETT: Just passing through .
CONTINUED: 23 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Needs patching .
KENAI: Twenty-five dollar .
CORBETT: Sure have learned to worship the white man 's god .
MEYERLING: I hope I can count on you gentlemen to vote for The People 's Friend this November .
CORBETT: Share some of that oil company money in your pocket and you can .
WILDER: One flier comes loose and I shoot you for littering .
MEYERLING: Have your fun just remembe The People 's Friend come election day .
WILDER: Oil Company candidate running on that slogan makes about as much sense as a rat fucking a grapefruit .
CORBETT: Hard to work up an interest in politics , way we live . You 're the first people we 've seen in two weeks .
CONTINUED: 23 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: How about a quart of Jack Daniel 's ?
KENAI: How about it is right . Back in the primary this town was voted dry .
LEMALLE: Aw , shit . Let 's go . Leave a note for Viking Bob , tell him to meet us in Cache .
CORBETT: Relax . One more day without drink wo n't kill you . Right , Sam ?
WILDER: I 'm living proof of that sad fact .
CORBETT: Can we buy the Marshal some dinner ?
WILDER: No , I better stay at my post . Even without the hootch riling 'em up , you know how mean-spirited folks get when they smell winter coming .
MITCHELL: So much for the walking weathe you predicted .
CONTINUED: 25 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Had no choice Given the situation .
MITCHELL: I know . Least you did n't shoot all of them .
LEMALLE: Fuck you , Mitchell . Woulda been my ass if Ben did n't waste that prick .
CORBETT: Mitchell , look , it do n't take three of us to wait for Viking Bob . Mitchell glances at LeMalle , then at Corbett .
MITCHELL: Okay by me . You 're the one likes these hot springs so much .
CORBETT: Leave my traps . We 'll tag up , couple days .
CONTINUED: 26 CONTINUED
WILDER: I was making my rounds , saw you hangar wide open , plane getting ained on , so I closed it up .
ERIC: Thanks .
ANNE MARIE: I bet you have n't had lunch .
WILDER: Bet you 're right . But I did n't come by to wangle a meal
ERIC: We appreciate the company . Anne Marie 's getting cabin feve already .
WILDER: What 'd you say they call these spaceships ?
ERIC: Mobile Arctic Dwelling MAD .
ANNE MARIE: I call it 'the Turtle , ' as in carrying your home on your back .
ERIC: Best thing is , Meyerling has to chase around to find us .
ANNE MARIE: The little creep hates it that Eric actually does what the company hired him to do .
WILDER: Watch it with Meyerling . Man 's as mean and corrupt as they get . Cut his mother 's throat if it 'd get him a couple votes .
CONTINUED: 26 CONTINUED
ERIC: Hey , Sam , look over there . Black and white smoke .
WILDER: Damn . Likely that 's an SOS . Have to pass on that lunch .
ERIC: We 'll go with you .
WILDER: Stupid goddamn greenhorns ! Froze to death .
ANNE MARIE: It 's not even winter !
WILDER: They got wet in the rain . Core ody temperature dropped , got drowsy , probably did n't even know what was happening . Eric stares at the dead Sportsmen .
CONTINUED: 27 CONTINUED
WILDER: Question is why they sat here when the storm moved in . Check their stuff while I sniff around .
ERIC: They had Emergency Locate Transmitters , but did n't use them . Maybe because they did n't bring atteries .
WILDER: I 'm too old for this shit .
ERIC: Any idea who could 've done it ?
WILDER: A certain sonofabitch bastard -more-
CONTINUED: 28 CONTINUED
WILDER: Even for Ben Corbett , this is nasty . Man 's got balls . He was sitting in Devil 's Cauldron when I left , calm as can be .
ANNE MARIE: Thank God . You can arrest him .
WILDER: Not necessarily . Corbett 's awful hardbitten these days .
ERIC: I 'll go into town with you .
ANNE MARIE: Eric , leave it alone . It 's not your business .
ERIC: No way can he get away with this . I 'll be back by tonight .
CORBETT: Yep . Afraid you have me at a disadvantage .
ERIC: Kenai at the general store asked me to bring these . Did n't expect we 'd already met .
CORBETT: No big deal . We just got off on the wrong foot . What 's you name ?
ERIC: Desmond .
CORBETT: New to the country , kid ?
ERIC: Six months . Ecological study fo Northland Oil .
CORBETT: Ecology . Folks use that term fo everything but what it means who 's eating who .
CONTINUED: 30 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Now , why do n't you get around to saying what you want .
CORBETT: All this for laying traps on private land ?
WILDER: You left a footprint at the Sportsmen 's camp . Only pretty sight there , Ben , 'cause the two men you did n't shoot and mutilate died of exposure .
CORBETT: Christ if I should n't know bette than to step in soft earth . I 've seen footprints in the tundra a hundred years old .
WILDER: I got it from here . Thanks .
CORBETT: Sam , give Dixie here fifty bucks out of my kit , will you ?
CONTINUED: 31 CONTINUED
KENAI: Before white men came , my people lived in sod houses underground and laid our dead on the tundra . Now we live above ground and bury our dead , and we have n't been warm since .
CORBETT: Nice bluff the other day with the tranquilizer gun out your jeep window . See you again , maybe .
ERIC: Yeah . Maybe so .
WILDER: I need to call Fairbanks . Neff just stares at Corbett .
CONTINUED: 33 CONTINUED
NEFF: Fairbanks Alascom ? Patch me through to the State Police .
WILDER: This is Sam Wilder , Marshal in Devil 's Cauldron . Had some killings here . I got a suspect ; e real nice if someone came and took him off my hands .
CONTINUED: 34 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Mind if I get some stuff from my kit ?
WILDER: If that was all , fine . But carving him up , stranding the others , that 's too fucking much . Is everything that walks , crawls , flies or swims fair game to you ?
CORBETT: I 'll get loose before that plane comes .
WILDER: Do n't try me . I 'll kill you if it comes to it .
NEFF: Mr. Desmond ! Arthur Neff . Area rep for the Federal Assistance Plan . Tell the boys in DC to keep those goodies coming .
ERIC: Sure .
NEFF: Snowplow , generator , TV dish hell , we get the goddamn Playboy Channel ! Here , this is for you .
CONTINUED: 35 CONTINUED
NEFF: Warm to forty below . Remember , anything you want , you ask Arthu Neff .
ANNE MARIE: Did you catch Corbett ?
ERIC: Sure did . He was one of the trappers we rousted from the Haul Road .
ANNE MARIE: Was there any trouble ?
ERIC: He was sitting in a hot tub with a hooker .
ANNE MARIE: Going after killers is n't the same as chasing poachers , Eric .
ERIC: Ca n't help myself . Corbett 's type always pisses me off . Oh , I found this at the post office . Had your name on it .
CONTINUED: 37 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Oh , sweetheart . It 's beautiful !
ERIC: You were looking at it in the catalog . Do n't know where you can wear it
ANNE MARIE: I 'll wear it for you . And I can wear it when we go home . We wo n't be here forever .
ERIC: You make it sound like a prison sentence .
ANNE MARIE: That 's not what I meant .
ERIC: It 's exactly what you meant .
ANNE MARIE: Look , why get into this again . As long as it 's working , let 's leave it alone . It 's been nice so far . We 're together
ERIC: Permanently ?
ANNE MARIE: Do I want to be with you permanently ? Yes , I think I do . But be with what you do and the way you live ? That I do n't know . C'mon , Eric , until I met you , coming back to Alaska was totally out of the question for me . But I 'm here . I 'm getting great pictures , and I 'm having fun . I love you . So shut up and let 's eat .
VIKING BOB: I 'm looking for some trappers . Ben Corbett , Mitchell , LeMalle . Seen 'em ?
NEFF: Yesterday . Said they were going to Cache . They were thirsty , but we were voted dry .
VIKING BOB: Shit .
VIKING BOB: These yours ?
KENAI: Gon na make an offer . Man who owns them wo n't need them where he 's going .
CONTINUED: 39 CONTINUED
WILDER: Back against the bars . Now .
VIKING BOB: To Cache . So I heard . Ben never said nothing to me about selling his gear .
CORBETT: Bob ! They got me on a murde charge !
WILDER: Sorry , Bob . I 'll have to keep you here 'til I ship him south .
CONTINUED: 42 CONTINUED
WILDER: You stupid , greedy , loudmouth sonofabitch ! He 'll have the others here in a few hours . You fucked me up , now you 're gon na help me move him .
KENAI: Forget it , Sam . I never work fo free .
ANNE MARIE: I still ca n't believe I 'm being financed by an oil company . Especially when they get a look at these pictures . Technology in the wilderness ; not too pretty . What 's that ?
ERIC: I thought I should check ou emergency transmitters .
CONTINUED: 43 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Winter . Two straight months of night we may never get out of ed . Which would suit me fine .
ERIC: Prolonged darkness makes people crazy .
ANNE MARIE: Not me . I 'm equipped .
ERIC: Come here Laughing , he wrestles her to the rug .
CONTINUED: 45 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: Ben ?
KENAI: I have no argument with you , Bob . Wilder said I could keep his truck if I drove it ten miles away from town .
VIKING BOB: Where did they go ?
KENAI: He did n't say , but I would guess the opposite way from here .
WILDER: I got an emergency on my hands . Corbett smiles at Eric as he walks inside .
ERIC: That 's what we should 've done in the first place .
WILDER: I could 've sat tight for the transport , 'til Bob came poking around .
CORBETT: A lot to ask , dragging him away from such a good-looking girl
ERIC: To take you to jail ? It 'll be my pleasure .
WILDER: You better get some sleep .
CORBETT: Good idea . Flying over mountains can give you some nasty surprises . Go too low , one of the clouds might have a big rock inside it .
CONTINUED: 48 CONTINUED
ERIC: I 'll get you there all right .
WILDER: Goddammit , I do n't need this aggravation . I 'll shoot you , Ben . Bank on it .
CORBETT: I do n't want to hurt you , Sam .
WILDER: I 'm not too old to knock the snot out of you !
CORBETT: Nothing personal .
ERIC: You want to try that handgun against this rifle , go ahead .
CORBETT: Some day you might have to face me without a gun .
WILDER: Fetch him back ? Do n't let him walk
CONTINUED: 53 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Does he have people ?
ERIC: A daughter in Oregon .
CORBETT: Send him down to her . There 's money in my duffel bag , back at his cabin . Corbett 's benign attitude is chilling .
ERIC: I better call in .
CORBETT: Surviving is what I know
ERIC: Killing is what you know . Pack some food while I prep fo the flight . I 'm sure not gon na let him go .
CONTINUED: 54 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: LeMalle . We got a problem . Where 's Mitchell ?
LEMALLE: Goddamn ! Viking Bob ! Mitchell 's inside , boring bastard
MITCHELL: Ben never sent a signal .
VIKING BOB: Musta never got a chance to -more-
CONTINUED: 56 CONTINUED
MITCHELL: Meaning he 'll need a plane .
VIKING BOB: Closest planes for hire are here in Cache .
MITCHELL: Hang on Remember that Cessna we saw at the pumping station on the Haul Road ? Belongs to the guy they got patrolling the pipeline .
LEMALLE: There you go . Wilder 's always chummy with the fuckin ' Bambi-lovers .
VIKING BOB: It 's a long shot .
MITCHELL: You got a better idea ?
CORBETT: How long have you been up north ?
ANNE MARIE: Six months .
CORBETT: Ca n't be . Too keen a sense of this place in your pictures .
CONTINUED: 58 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Six months this time . I was born in the Aleutians .
CORBETT: Your people Alaskan ?
ANNE MARIE: My dad was a Navy doctor .
CORBETT: Knew you had no native blood , even with your dark hair . Blue eyes give you away . My wife had lue eyes .
ANNE MARIE: Had ?
CORBETT: She 's dead .
ANNE MARIE: Oh .
CORBETT: Had some good years . Met her in '66 . She showed up one day in Coldfoot . No one knew her . One Sunday morning , she marched into a bar and announced she was available as a wife to the highest bidder . Did n't work out in three months , she 'd return the money and leave , no hard feelings . My bid was eight thousand dollars . Beautiful girl .
ANNE MARIE: How did she.. ?
CORBETT: I was gone , in September , laying traplines . She went to our cache for some meat . Got mauled by a ear . Tore open her skull . -more-
CONTINUED: 58 CONTINUED
CORBETT: What about you why come back ? Classy girl like you seems more suited to the finer things .
ANNE MARIE: That 's why I left , moved to Washington . When I met Eric I was doing day shoots products and fashion , mostly . Pretty dull . Eric was teaching college , and then he got the job with Northland Oil . We wanted to stay together , so we talked them into funding some wilderness photography and here I am .
CORBETT: You should know something .
ANNE MARIE: I do n't want to talk any more .
CORBETT: Was n't my intention to hurt Wilder . I 'm telling you the truth . I liked the man . I only meant to get loose to survive . Your cheechako boyfriend bette understand that . Listen , I 've got some money put away
CONTINUED: 58 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Do n't ever think you can buy Eric off , Mr. Corbett
ERIC: Let 's go .
ANNE MARIE: Wait a second .
ERIC: Fairbanks is a three-hour flight . I 'll be back by dinnertime .
ANNE MARIE: That 's my line .
CORBETT: Let me out and keep going . They catch us , they 'll kill you .
CONTINUED: 66 CONTINUED
CORBETT: They 'll still catch us . All you 're doing is pissing them off .
VIKING BOB: Get in . We can jump it .
ERIC: How the hell were they smart enough to find us ?
CORBETT: Smart ? Sure . That 's why I 'm sitting in this plane and they 're down there blowing me kisses .
ERIC: I needed a pilot 's license to take the job here , so I got one in six weeks .
CORBETT: That makes the flight more interesting .
CONTINUED: 89 CONTINUED
ERIC: Sounds like professional jealousy .
CORBETT: Hunting and trapping was a damn fine life . Me and Mitchell , Bob and LeMalle , we were teams . I 'd always go with Mitchell . Good man , Mitchell . I 'd let Bob worry about goddamn LeMalle . We 'd hire a plane in October . On the way to a dirt airstrip somewhere , we 'd drop supplies . We 'd land , tell the pilot to come back fo us a few days before Christmas .
CONTINUED: 94 CONTINUED
ERIC: Stay put !
CORBETT: You got the belly to look me in the eye and pull the trigger ? Eric cocks the gun 's hammer with his thumb .
ERIC: Be no different than shooting a abid dog . The men face off for a tense moment .
CORBETT: I took the odds on getting down in one piece , and I made it . Now we 're in my territory .
ERIC: With light clothing and no supplies , this is nobody 's territory .
CORBETT: You sound like the tourists . Know-it-alls who read about survival in a magazine . Fuck you . You wo n't make it off this mountain .
ERIC: Let 's go .
CONTINUED: 94 CONTINUED
CORBETT: I 'm not gon na carry you out of here .
ERIC: That 's right . You 're not .
CORBETT: Look , take these cuffs off . We need to work together .
ERIC: Forget it .
CONTINUED: 95 CONTINUED
ERIC: It 'll be interesting , trying to uild a fire without any wood .
CORBETT: Welcome to the environment , Mr. Ecology . Out here , one mistake is all you get . Determined and dour , Eric pushes on .
ERIC: I do n't plan on dying .
CORBETT: Snow shelter . Okay . You dig . I 'll have a little sit-down .
CONTINUED: 96 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Still quite a hike to Devil 's Cauldron . Days . A long stretch to go without sleep , my friend . You can hide behind that pistol fo now , but take your eyes off me long enough to sneeze
ERIC: Turn around .
CORBETT: Ice is too thin you can see the water moving underneath .
ERIC: We 're not sitting here 'til November . There 's a cargo plane coming to Devil 's Cauldron in four days , and I 'm putting you on it .
CORBETT: We get wet , we freeze to death in a couple hours .
ERIC: I 've been on ice like this when I was a kid , skating . Spread you weight , keep moving . Go on .
CORBETT: Be my guest .
ERIC: I 'm right behind you .
CONTINUED: 102 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Wait 'til I 'm across !
CORBETT: Most dangerous thing in the world A regular Joe , in over his head . You trying to prove how tough you are for me , or fo yourself ?
ERIC: It was n't my idea to crash the plane .
CORBETT: Let 's camp . There 's grayling under this ice . I 'll snare some for dinner .
ERIC: We 've got another two hours of daylight .
CORBETT: Pushing it is flat wrong . All you prove is your ignorance about eaking trail .
MEYERLING: I 've been trying to raise you on the shortwave for two days .
ANNE MARIE: Have you talked to Eric ?
MEYERLING: I have not , but I very much want to . What do you know about the trouble in Devil 's Cauldron ?
ANNE MARIE: I was hoping you had some news
MEYERLING: Get this straight I 'm the District Supervisor . Whateve you do reflects on me . It was n't my idea to bring you people up here , but I 'm stuck with you . You are absolutely not to involve yourself in any local disputes . Whichever side you take , you alienate the other . Mr. Corbett is quite well-known in this egion . People admire him
ANNE MARIE: Corbett 's a killer .
CONTINUED: 105 CONTINUED
MEYERLING: I do n't care if Ben Corbett makes meatloaf out of nuns and babies , he 's not your concern . Understood ?
ANNE MARIE: The radio 's on the fritz .
MEYERLING: Where 'd you say Eric is ?
ANNE MARIE: Somewhere along the pipeline .
MEYERLING: What about that hotheaded marshal , Sam Wilder ? I heard he was in the middle of this mess .
ANNE MARIE: Sam ? We have n't seen him .
MEYERLING: Really . I thought maybe that was his snowmobile outside . By the way your truck also 'on the fritz ? '
ANNE MARIE: Why ?
MEYERLING: It 's out by the pumping station , shot full of holes .
CORBETT: Have to backtrack , find anothe way down .
ERIC: Forget it . It would take days .
CORBETT: Going to be a bit of a challenge with handcuffs on .
CONTINUED: 106 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Better get into those trees efore that squall blows down .
CONTINUED: 107 CONTINUED
MINER #1: Where 's Ben at ?
MITCHELL: You 'll want to hear about it with a drink in your mitt .
MINER #1: Figures , Corbett getting hauled off by a Federal marshal . God almighty , how I hate the U.S. government .
LOGGER: We should pass a hat . Send Corbett a few bucks . We owe him .
MINER #1: Government and business . They uined this state . Like that little weasel , fo instance .
CONTINUED: 109 CONTINUED
LOGGER: Hold it . Meyerling told me that stuff 's nothing but P.R . for the TV and papers down in Juneau .
LEMALLE: He 's full of shit . We got run out of there by some fuckhead driving a Northland truck .
VIKING BOB: I called the cops in Fairbanks , see when Ben is standing trial . They do n't know shit about Ben o Wilder !
LEMALLE: Get the fuck out of here .
VIKING BOB: It 's a three-hour flight . They shoulda got there yesterday .
LEMALLE: Maybe they went back to Devil 's Cauldron .
MITCHELL: Naah , Wilder knows we got friends in town .
VIKING BOB: That plane might 've been to throw us off the track . Remember the ait-and-switch Wilder pulled with the Eskimo and his truck ?
CONTINUED: 110 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Wilder still woulda made Fairbanks by now . Fuck a duck ! Ben musta got loose .
VIKING BOB: Okay , let 's backtrack , try to pick up his trail . You know the kid out on the pipeline that Wilder 's buddies with ?
MITCHELL: We were just talking about him .
CORBETT: Just gather birch . It 'll smoke like hell , but it 'll burn green .
CONTINUED: 111 CONTINUED
CORBETT: I need your pocket knife . I have to eat , too .
ERIC: It could blow over tomorrow , too .
CORBETT: I 'm still figuring You 're eithe eal brave or real dumb .
CONTINUED: 113 CONTINUED
ERIC: I just want this over with .
CORBETT: Where in hell Meyerling dig you up ?
ERIC: You know Meyerling ?
CORBETT: Sure . The People 's Friend . Kiss your ass with precision if there 's a vote in it .
ERIC: I 'll hold onto that .
CORBETT: Sure love to know where you fit in up here .
ERIC: I 'm here to do my job .
CORBETT: You want to fool yourself about that bullshit job , fine . Damn shame you have to drag you girlfriend along . You think a woman like that will be happy making moose stew for a man -more-
CONTINUED: 113 CONTINUED
ERIC: Do n't fucking insult me .
CORBETT: Folks come to Alaska for a real short list of reasons Money . Adventure . Solitude . Those cover most everyone . But frontiers also draw another type of man . One with a demon in his gut . He comes to the edge of the world to face that demon , and lay it to rest .
ERIC: Yeah ?
CORBETT: Yep . Sometimes they do , but usually they end up crazy o dead . Eric ponders Corbett 's words as he eats .
CONTINUED: 114 CONTINUED
CONTINUED: 115 CONTINUED
CONTINUED: 116 CONTINUED
CORBETT: There 's a cabin , maybe twenty miles south of here .
ERIC: Too bad we 're heading west .
CORBETT: There 's a snowmobile . Inside a day we could be on the Yukon . I got money there . Remember that five thousand ? Make it ten . Be smart . Take it and walk away .
ERIC: You do n't get it , do you ?
CONTINUED: 117 CONTINUED
ERIC: Stop !
CORBETT: Nothing personal . Just wanted to see what you 'd do .
ERIC: You 're not going to slow us down ! Keep moving !
CONTINUED: 117 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Inside of three hours you 'd be dragging my dead carcass . Fuming , Eric helps Corbett up .
ERIC: Stay awake ! You want to go hypothermic ?
CORBETT: If that means freeze my balls off , no thanks . I 'll be okay .
ERIC: How many do you see ?
CORBETT: What ? ! Fuck off . Save yourself .
ERIC: You do n't feel cold ?
CORBETT: It 's a spring day
CONTINUED: 119 CONTINUED
ERIC: Wake up , goddammit ! You 've got classic hypothermia crankiness , fatigue , ca n't feel your coldness . Worst thing you can do is fade out .
CORBETT: Where 's my ELT ?
ERIC: Emergency transmitter ? All you gear is back at Wilder 's .
CORBETT: You got one ?
ERIC: It was blown up with the plane .
CORBETT: Too bad . We 'd be out of here in a few hours .
CONTINUED: 119 CONTINUED
ERIC: How ? Nobody this far north monitors that frequency until avalanche season . Besides , I 'm surprised a tough guy like you uses fancy electronics .
CORBETT: I 'm surprised a flat-ender like you knows cold-weather remedies .
CORBETT: I 'm hungry . Go kill me some dinner .
ERIC: An appetite . Maybe you wo n't die after all .
CORBETT: Hate to disappoint you .
ANNE MARIE: It 's about time She hurries back into the Turtle .
VIKING BOB: Hullo ?
CONTINUED: 127 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: Somebody left in a big hurry . Check outside .
LEMALLE: Grizzly sign . Looks fresh .
MITCHELL: It 's Sam Wilder !
VIKING BOB: Musta wanted to keep him from the ears . If Ben killed him , he sure as hell would n't hang him up like this .
MITCHELL: Where 's the kid ?
CONTINUED: 129 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Who gives a husky fuck ? Where 's Ben ? The trappers look glumly at one another .
MITCHELL: I should get me a job with an oil company .
LEMALLE: I say we eat , torch this fuckin ' thing , and move on .
VIKING BOB: Go easy .
LEMALLE: Cool out . I ai n't about to get lasted .
CONTINUED: 132 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Big mother musta wanted something eal bad in here
CONTINUED: 134 CONTINUED
CORBETT: Used to see the natives eating oots when I was a kid in Nome .
ERIC: Nome ? I figure you 'd be a whaler , coming from there .
CORBETT: Told that 's what our old man was . Planned on going to sea , me and Bob , 'til I read Jack London . Started trapping when I was ten . Mailed the furs to Sears . Eight ucks for a skunk , three for a muskrat . That was fine money .
ERIC: Killing wildlife not good enough anymore , so you go on to bigge and better things .
CORBETT: You got a knack for seeing things the way you want to see them .
ERIC: Yeah , it is fucked up but it 's not too late to keep that from happening here .
CORBETT: All you do is keep folks from working the land , living like they 're meant to . You do n't understand shit ! Trappers , hunters we 're part of the environment . Who 's protecting us ? I 've seen plenty like you . So -more-
CONTINUED: 134 CONTINUED
ERIC: What do you know about people ? You live like an animal ! A savage goddamn throwback like you elongs out here , as far away from the rest of us as possible .
CORBETT: I 'm real sad you do n't approve of me . He shoves Eric with his handcuffed hands .
ERIC: Do n't push me.. !
CORBETT: Cowardly bastard . I 'm in handcuffs and I still scare the piss out of you .
CONTINUED: 134 CONTINUED
NEFF: Wilder 's missing church services ; you believe it ?
KENAI: I just as soon he stay gone . Fool could 've got us all killed , arresting Ben Corbett here in town .
CORBETT: What makes you so sure my boys wo n't be waiting for us ?
CONTINUED: 139 CONTINUED
ERIC: They think you 're in Fairbanks . If not , they still wo n't find you efore the plane comes tomorrow .
CORBETT: Do n't bet on it .
ERIC: I already have .
CORBETT: You do n't know how true that is .
ERIC: We 'll wait here until nightfall . No fire , no tarp .
CORBETT: Did n't mean it , you being a coward . You 're a lot of things , ut chickenshit is n't one of them .
ERIC: Maybemaybe not . I 'll tell you what scares me stumbling through life , like an ordinary jerk . That 's why I want to work on the front lines , where what I do means something . Soon as I got here , I realized my job was bullshit . Oil company propaganda . I was ready to leave , then I thought screw it , I 'll outsmart them , do the work anyway . I do n't know anymore . Maybe I am fooling myself . That 's what I 'm afraid of most of all .
CORBETT: Hell , I still get a knot in my gut every season , wondering how much longer I can go on . No 'Home for Retired Trappers ' that -more-
CONTINUED: 139 CONTINUED
CORBETT: My wife used to go to chapel on Sundays . See her friends , 'cause I was away so much . Should 've been home that day . She 'd be getting dressed right about now
VIKING BOB: My guess is he 's loose and heading for Chukfoktulik . He 'll need supplies ; that 's the closest settlement without a lawman .
LEMALLE: I ai n't gon na leave a seven- hundred-dollar Remington behind .
VIKING BOB: What you gon na do with it ? Large ore 's for shit on small game .
LEMALLE: Not in the right hands it ai n't .
CONTINUED: 140 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Thought that door was open last night
VIKING BOB: Quit fucking around . Get in .
NEFF: You do n't mind me saying , Mr. Desmond , you look like hell .
ERIC: Have you heard anything from the girl staying with me , Anne Marie ?
NEFF: Not a damn thing . What 's going on ? Mr. Meyerling was here , all steamed up , looking for you .
ERIC: Look , Neff , I 've got Ben Corbett with me
NEFF: Here ? ! Where 's Wilder ?
ERIC: Back at my place he , uh , broke his leg .
NEFF: If Corbett 's men find out
ERIC: I 'm putting him on the plane to Fairbanks , eleven tomorrow .
NEFF: Jiminy Christmas . What do you want from me ?
ERIC: Corbett ruined my two-way . Go to my place on the Haul Road , tell Anne Marie I 'm okay and to sit tight .
CONTINUED: 147 CONTINUED
NEFF: I 'll go at dawn .
ERIC: Thanks . Do n't tell anyone you saw me .
NEFF: Why the smirk ?
KENAI: Bet I could make some money turning Ben Corbett in . Maybe more for lettin ' him loose . I was up in my cache . Saw the Northland man come talk to you .
NEFF: You 're out of your greedy goddamn mind .
KENAI: Corbett coming here stinks of trouble . We should make the best of it before it turns around and ites us in the ass .
NEFF: Stay out of it .
CORBETT: Talk to that good-looking girl of yours ?
ERIC: You broke the radio , remember ?
CORBETT: I 'm sure she 's fine . Seemed like a clever kid .
ERIC: I liked you better frozen . You did n't talk so much .
CORBETT: You 're damn lucky , glimpsing this country before it 's ruined , gone for good . You saw wonders you 'd only dreamed of . That alone makes you different than the sorry bastards back where you came from , because you have dreamt them . Corbett sees he 's hit a nerve with Eric .
CONTINUED: 150 CONTINUED
ERIC: All I want want is you in jail
NEFF: He saw you and Corbett come in
KENAI: Dixie 's waiting at the infirmary . She 'll put a splint on that injured leg . Eric is skeptical of Kenai 's concern .
NEFF: Do n't let him fool you . Real eason he 's here is to buy Corbett 's traps .
ERIC: Okay . You can talk to him . But I 'll keep the keys with me .
DIXIE: Earl says you get discount . Twenty-five dollar .
NEFF: Look , Ben , we do n't want any trouble . The kid 's got the key , and besides , he looks edgy enough to use that magnum he 's carrying .
CORBETT: Relax . I 'll get loose in time .
KENAI: Any traps you do n't want , I 'll pay cash money .
CORBETT: Guess someone should use them . Open the bottom drawer in Wilder 's desk . My kit 's in there . Might as well unload everything .
DIXIE: I wash your back for you . You will like it .
CONTINUED: 154 CONTINUED
MEYERLING: I hate to interrupt playtime , but why the hell are you caught up in a local matter when I gave you express instructions to the contrary ? !
ERIC: Cut the shit , Leo . I might need your help
WHORE: They got nice beds upstairs , honey .
LEMALLE: I 'm standin ' guard duty . Besides , rather spend the room money on sloppy seconds .
WHORE: Hey , Tiger
ERIC: I wo n't let a killer walk !
CONTINUED: 157 CONTINUED
MEYERLING: Alleged killer .
ERIC: What does this matter to you ?
MEYERLING: You ca n't see past your lousy little assignment , sniffing around the pipeline . The few voters there are in this district look up to Corbett , and I 'm not about to alienate them .
ERIC: I should release Corbett because you want some votes ?
MEYERLING: This miserable wilderness is a state of the union . Policy 's made here the same way as in the civilized world at the ballot ox . That 's the beauty of it these icebox cowboys are living a century too late . Get them on your side , it 's like buying Manhattan for beads . With a handful of votes you control the greatest frontier since white men stumbled onto the New World .
ERIC: Some day these people 'll wake up , and you 'll be the first one they 'll run out of here .
LEMALLE: Northwest . Devil 's Cauldron .
NEFF: What 's wrong ?
ERIC: Just stay out of my face until I 'm gone !
CORBETT: Lets us watch each other 's backs over a wide area . Only thing messed me up this time was getting arrested in the baths . ELT was in my duffel bag , not around my neck where it should 've een .
ERIC: No way they 'll find you on a five-minute signal . And no way -more-
CONTINUED: 160 CONTINUED
CORBETT: They have n't disappointed me yet .
ERIC: I need to rent a cabin .
KENAI: What 's the problem with Sam Wilder 's place ?
ERIC: Will you rent me a cabin , or not ?
KENAI: Pretty clever If the trappers got that signal beacon and get here in time , Sam 's is the first place they 'll look . They may figure you 're waiting for an airplane , so you ca n't stay in the shack by the airstrip . Last place they 'd expect you is on the far side of town . I ca n't afford any trouble
ERIC: Here 's a hundred dollars . And if you or anyone else will back me up on this
KENAI: Forget it . And try not to leed on my throw rugs . Why do this ?
ERIC: If you have to ask , you would n't understand .
CONTINUED: 165 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Eric ! Why are n't you in Fairbanks ?
ERIC: You ca n't stay here . Go back to the Turtle . I 'll meet you back there in a few hours .
ANNE MARIE: What 's going on ?
ERIC: I 'll tell you everything later .
ANNE MARIE: Where 's Corbett ?
ERIC: Here . A transport plane is due at eleven . Once I put him on it , it 's all over .
ANNE MARIE: So what 's the problem ?
CONTINUED: 165 CONTINUED
ERIC: There is n't one , unless Corbett 's men get here before the plane does .
ANNE MARIE: Let the people here handle it . It 's their marshal Corbett killed !
ERIC: Please , Anne Marie , you being here only complicates things .
ANNE MARIE: I 'm staying . Eric knows she wo n't relent .
ERIC: Take the snowmobile , park it ehind Wilder 's cabin .
NEFF: I was just on my way to you ladyfriend 's , but I guess she found you .
ERIC: Yeah . Sorry I barked at you last night .
NEFF: I 'm the one should be sorry Goddamn Kenai , always out for a score . I never should 've let him go over there .
CONTINUED: 165 CONTINUED
ERIC: I 'd sure like that favor you offered a while back . Neff gets a seasick look on his face .
NEFF: Look , Mr. Desmond , I did n't count on it turning this ugly .
ERIC: What are you talking about ?
NEFF: Bastards killed Sam , you think they wo n't kill the rest of us ?
ERIC: There 'll be three , four men at the most . I have some backup , nothing will happen .
NEFF: I 'm real sorry . In a while , you 're gone from this country . But we live here . No one wants to mix it up with those hombres . Neff opens the door for Eric .
ERIC: You do n't care enough about Sam to
NEFF: Sam Wilder was my cousin . He 's why I came to Alaska . All his letters , saying what a paradise it is . But me ending up dead wo n't do Sam a lick of good .
ANNE MARIE: You 're hurt .
ERIC: Nothing broken . C'mon , we have to hurry . He leads her inside .
CORBETT: Could 've told you no one would help Seeing Anne Marie , he smiles .
ERIC: Shut up !
CORBETT: Either way , you better clear out . I do n't want anyone innocent getting harmed .
ERIC: We 're moving . Let 's go .
CONTINUED: 168 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: Ben ? Ben Corbett ?
CONTINUED: 170 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: Look , we pull Ben 's ass out of the fire , I 'll get you a whole damn crate of Snickers bars .
LEMALLE: I 'm right fuckin ' here with you .
ERIC: Answer and I 'll shoot !
CORBETT: You kill me , you sign your death warrant . And hers .
LEMALLE: You hear me ? Ben ?
VIKING BOB: Ease off . We do this my way .
CORBETT: They know I 'm here . I do n't say something , they 'll plow this town under . You willing to accept that responsibility ?
ERIC: Say you 're okay . Tell them I 'll kill you if they rush us .
CORBETT: Bob ?
CONTINUED: 175 CONTINUED
VIKING BOB: You in one piece ?
LEMALLE: Sweet-talk wo n't get shit . Choose it , asswipe cut Corbett loose , or soon as you come outside , I put a fuckin ' bullet through your eye !
CORBETT: Snow 's to their advantage , kid . You ca n't see them , but soon as that plane comes , they 'll sure as hell know where we 're going . Wise up . Take me to the Yukon . I 'll give you that money and guarantee you 'll walk away .
ERIC: Why offer a buyoff with you gunmen waiting outside ?
CORBETT: The time has passed for men like them and me . I know it . But they 're still fighting fo survival , like cornered animals . That 's why they 'll kill you . -more-
CONTINUED: 178 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: He 's right about the snow . We 're lind .
CORBETT: At least your girl had the sense to jump ship . Too bad she 's the only one small enough to fit through that dumb waiter .
VIKING BOB: Just wait , we do n't know what this guy 's up to . Ben 'll let us know what to do .
CONTINUED: 184 CONTINUED
ERIC: Your infrared camera ?
ANNE MARIE: Technology in the wilderness . Only problem is talking to you on your way to the landing strip .
ERIC: I 've got an idea . We 'll have to work fast .
VIKING BOB: There 's what they 're waiting on !
MITCHELL: They 'll have to come right past us .
ERIC: When you ran off , I thought you 'd keep going 'til you were back home in Washington .
ANNE MARIE: My home is here . With you .
CONTINUED: 186 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Kenai 's PA but how the fuck she seein ' us ?
VIKING BOB: Does n't matter . We know where they 're going . C'mon .
CONTINUED: 187 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: One is moving back toward the cabins .
DIXIE: Earl , it 's crazy to go out there .
CONTINUED: 194 CONTINUED
KENAI: I hear someone in the spa .
ERIC: That 'll keep him out of the cold .
ERIC: He 'll live .
CONTINUED: 203 CONTINUED
ANNE MARIE: Do n't make me shoot .
LEMALLE: Want to chance it with that hog-leg ? You ca n't even hold it up . Better drop me first shot , itch , or I 'll rip your fuckin ' lungs out .
CONTINUED: 205 CONTINUED
KENAI: Lookit this damn mess . Where in hell 's Wilder ?
NEFF: Dead . Trappers killed him .
KENAI: Aw , Jesus . Told you this was trouble . What about you , big shot ? Do something . Who 's side are you on , anyway ?
MEYERLING: Hey , I thought you people loved Corbett and his wild men !
KENAI: This shoot-'em-up shit is bad fo usiness . I 'm sick of it .
MEYERLING: What about you , Neff ?
NEFF: Well two of the trappers are down already
MEYERLING: One left ; three of us . Let 's finish it .
NEFF: What about Eric Desmond ?
MEYERLING: I 'll handle him .
CONTINUED: 206 CONTINUED
LEMALLE: Over there He hoists his Remington .
MITCHELL: Hold it . You might hit Ben .
LEMALLE: Bullshit . I hit what I 'm aiming at .
MITCHELL: Let 'em come closer first
CONTINUED: 208 CONTINUED
MITCHELL: Glad to see you 're okay . I told LeMalle not to shoot . Had some fine seasons , did n't we
CORBETT: Fifteen years on the trail with this man , I never saw him rise to anger .
PILOT: Circle , this is BMY-955 . I just touched down in Devil 's Cauldron . Nobody 's here to greet me like usual , and there 's gunfire . I 'm getting scarce . With that , he STARTS his engines up again .
ANNE MARIE: You ca n't leave yet .
PILOT: It 's my responsibility to get this aircraft out of here safely . Anne Marie points the .44 at him .
ANNE MARIE: Leave the engines idling . Go ack and open the side door .
MEYERLING: Nobody wants any more killings ; we all agree to that , correct ? That 's good . Now , Eric , you 're gon na hand your prisoner over to us .
ERIC: Fuck you .
MEYERLING: This is n't your concern . It 's over , here and now .
CORBETT: Sure , when you put a bullet in my ack on the way out . Easier fo all involved .
MEYERLING: Not a bad idea . Face it , Ben . There 's no room in Alaska for you any more .
CONTINUED: 212 CONTINUED
ERIC: Keep back .
CORBETT: You 're quite a piece of work , Meyerling . The tide changes , you ide right along with it . Eric looks at Neff .
ERIC: Neff , you know better than this
NEFF: You 're an outsider , Mr. Desmond . Step aside ; stay out of it .
CONTINUED: 212 CONTINUED
ERIC: Anybody moves and I 'll shoot !
CORBETT: Wound 's a through-and-through . Missed my liver , I think .
ERIC: Let 's get out of here .
CORBETT: Like I said , I 'd still be up on that mountain , frozen solid , it was n't for you .
ERIC: We 'll get you to a hospital , soon as we get to Fairbanks .
CONTINUED: 215 CONTINUED
CORBETT: So they can patch me up and put me in a cage ? Forget it . Meyerling 's right I 'm a dinosaur . Greedy bastards like him , it 's their turn with this land . Put me in the woods , let me live or die on my own .
ERIC: You 're wrong . Everything we do leaves its mark . You said it yourself there are hundred- year-old footprints in the tundra .
PILOT: Too damn crazy in this state anymore . I 'm moving back to L.A .
BOB ANDERS: Carnival 's bigger today .
ANN SWIFT: There are hundreds of people out
LOOKS OUT: No , thousands There are
BOB ANDERS: Are these supposed to be ulletproof ?
MARK LIJEK: Well , they 've never been tested .
AL GOLACINSKI: Marines to Number One FALL
BOB ANDERS: Can we get some fucking police please ?
AL GOLACINSKI: Do n't shoot . You do n't want to be the sonofabitch who started a war -
PROTESTORS: La ilaha ilallah A WOMAN IN A CHADOR uses her own radio .
J STAFFORD: We 're not going out in this
AL GOLACINSKI: I 'm going outside .
GALLEGOS: Why ?
AL GOLACINSKI: To reason with them .
KUPKE: Just everything . Do n't sort it
ANN SWIFT: NONE , there are no police
CORA LIJEK: Second floor anyone who can hear this we need help
AL GOLACINSKI: Let me in ! Jesus Christ ! Open the fucking door !
ANN SWIFT: Washington on flash Get Ops get a line We hear
BILL DAUGHERTY: Well , Tom . You wanted to see the world
AHERN: Get the shredder .
ANN SWIFT: No Hal yes INSIDE the uilding , IN
MARK LIJEK: Nobody is coming . We need to go .
BOB ANDERS: Iranians first . Go ! Now !
SCREAMING: Who has made this ! ! ! Two EMBASSY EMPLOYEES look at the floor .
ANN SWIFT: It 's done . They 're in . She puts down the phone .
BOB ANDERS: Keep going .
BATES: You think the Russians would put up with this ? They 'd fucking
MALICK PENDER: What did you expect ? We
BRICE: At least 60 . Could be a hundred .
GENCO: You still have n't found Schafer ?
TO GENCO: No , I was screaming his name cause I was fucking him .
SAUNDERS: Six got out !
VANCE: I was told five .
BATES: Apparently it 's six now .
VANCE: What happened ?
PENDER: Not clear . We know they escaped the embassy .
VANCE: Where are they ?
SAUNDERS: The Canadian Ambassador 's house .
BATES: Are we attempting rescue ?
BRICE: Hold for the Secretary
PHONE: there 's no one this is he Can we get Ottawa patched ? Five phones and none of them work . Coming back on phone
VANCE: Is White House joining ? ARGO - Final 12 .
JORDAN: We wish it was the fucking Den of Espionage . C.I . had three people there , did n't see a revolution coming ? I 'd call that something other than intelligence
SECRETARY: Hold for the Chief of Staff ( holds out the phone
JORDAN BUTLER: They 're sticking to it . No I 'll call him back . release till we expel the shah .
TITTERTON: Put him on a plane . Fuck him .
JORDAN: He 's half dead and he 's in chemo .
BUTLER: We took him in . He 's ours now .
TITTERTON: So we 'll take in any prick as long as he 's got cancer ?
JORDAN: No . Just the pricks on our side . So all our other pricks on thei prick thrones know , when they get un out on a rail , they wo n't be getting their spleens out by a camel vet in the Sinai .
TITTERTON: The six with the Canadians .
JORDAN: We 've got 60 in the embassy with guns to their heads right now
TITTERTON: The eyes of the world are on the embassy . That makes them safe than the six on the street .
ANALYST: Bani-Sadr 's saying it 'll be ove in 24 hours .
JORDAN: Leave the six where they are . I 'll go brief the president .
MENDEZ: Yeah .
O'DONNELL: The six of them went out a back exit . Brits turned them away , Kiwis turned them away . The Canadians took them in . They 've een there since .
O'DONNELL: Traffic calls them The Houseguests . Have n't left the Canadian ambassador 's house since it happened .
MENDEZ: Compromised ?
O'DONNELL: Just a matter of time . We 've got Revolutionary Guards going door-to- door like Jehovah 's Witnesses , looking for escapees . They 're out for blood , Tony . Half of them think Khomeini 's been too lenient with the ones in the embassy . Walking out of his office , Mendez following .
MENDEZ: White House ?
O'DONNELL: Carter 's shitting enough bricks to uild the pyramids . He wants the six of them out .
MENDEZ: Who else knows ?
O'DONNELL: Just the families . Meanwhile , some genius in the embassy was keeping a mug book of everybody who worked there .
MENDEZ: Jesus Christ .
O'DONNELL: We think it got shredded before they got in , but the fuckers have sweat-shop kids in there re- assembling the shreds .
MENDEZ: Who 's handling ? They walk through a door and out of the Pit .
O'DONNELL: State 's coordinating in-house .
MENDEZ: They do n't do exfils .
O'DONNELL: They do now . They want to run it y us , strictly as consultants . Off his look .
MENDEZ: Then why 's he want me ?
O'DONNELL: So he can tell State he ran it by his best exfil guy .
ENGELL: Okay . This is Bob Pender from State O.S . He 's been talking to Morgan at ExtAff .
PENDER: Mark and Cora Lijek , 29 and 25 . He 's a consular officer and she 's an assistant . Newlyweds . They just got there a couple of months ago . No language skills or in- country knowledge . Henry Lee Schatz . Agricultural attache from Idaho . He was there to sell U.S. tractors to Iranian agro . Hid out with the Swedes during the takeover then made his way to join the others with the Canadians . J Stafford . Late twenties . He 's smart and a climber . Speaks Farsi . Arranged the hire of his wife Kathy
BATES: Understaffed so the faculty wives were the typing pool . That gs without comment in this room of men .
PENDER: Bob Anders . Senior consula officer , oldest of the group . Most likely to be group leader . So .
BATES: We wait till the weather clears up then we deliver six bikes and provide maps to the Turkish order .
PENDER: We have intelligence they can ride icycles . Or we 're prepared to send in somebody to teach them .
MENDEZ: You can send in training wheels and wait at the border with Gatorade .
ENGELL PENDER: Who is We 've only been asked to sharpshoot this , State 's handling the op .
O'DONNELL: Tony 's an exfil spesh . He got a lot of the shah 's people out afte the fall .
TO PENDER: If these people can read OR add , any minute they 're gon na figure out they 're six short of a full deck . It 's winter . You wan na wait around for a nice spring day for bike rides ?
A BEAT: The only way out 's through the airport . You build them new identities , a Moses gs in , takes them out on a commercial flight .
BATES: They would pose as reporters . The government issued 70-something
BATES MALINOV: visas for American 74. journalists .
MALINOV: And the Revolutionary Guards keep them on 74 leashes .
MENDEZ: They get caught with journalist creds , you 've got Peter Jennings with a noose around his neck in an hour .
LAMONT: World Noose Tonight .
BATES: North American accents give us limited options . So we get the Canadians to issue them passports
GENCO: English teachers from the international school . Tested model . It 's worked before .
MENDEZ: The school was shut eight months ago .
BATES: So do-gooders . They 're six Canadians who 've been over there inspecting crops . Making sure the kids get enough to eat . Get them creds for an AG NGO
PENDER ROSSI: I 'm sure there 's skinny A logo with seeds . kids Seeds of Hope '
MENDEZ: What do you see in the picture , sir ?
PENDER: Tehran .
MENDEZ: What 's on the ground ?
PENDER: Snow .
MENDEZ: So what crops are the do-gooders inspecting under Frosty ? Pender shifts .
TO MENDEZ: You have a better plan ? Mendez ds n't respond .
ENGELL: Get one .
NIGHT: At dinner around a dining room table the SIX
TAYLOR: Martin was the worst one . Martin the Maximo King
PAT TAYLOR: he looked like a cartoon witch doctor , bone through his nose , so she asked to take her picture with
HIM: J Stafford , keeping to himself .
KATHY STAFFORD: You okay ?
CORA LIJEK: if your family 's hungry , you do n't want to hear about international law
MARK LIJEK: Same thing .
TAYLOR: I read today that Tehran was voted the second most desirable city in the world to live in . Everywhere else tied for first .
TOAST: To getting through ten weeks . To our guests .
LEE SCHATZ: Our hosts . Mr . Ambassador
TAYLOR: You should get into the crawl space .
J STAFFORD: Kathy ds n't want to go down again .
ENGLISH: Those who remain here are spies . They will be treated as spies who have interfered with the sovereignty of the people of Iran .
SUBTITLED: If Carter ds not send back the Shah , it is possible that they will be tried and if they are tried , who knows what will happen .
FARSI: Our young people have taken ove this nest of corruption . America ca n't do a damn thing about it
ON TV: And that 's the way it is , on this , the 70th day of captivity for the American hostages in Iran .
IAN: Hello .
MENDEZ: You do homework tonight ?
IAN: Yeah .
MENDEZ: What was it ?
MENDEZ: What do I hear ?
COMING CLEAN: Battle for Planet of the Apes . ' Am I in trouble ? A beat .
MENDEZ: What channel ?
IAN: Nine .
MENDEZ: Catch me up .
SPACE NURSE: My creation My creation
BREAKING CHARACTER: What the fuck , Brian ?
WALKIE: John Chambers . John Chambers make- up
CHAMBERS: If he could act he would n't be playing the Minotaur .
STILL FORAGING: Who is it ?
CHAMBERS: Hey , Tony .
O'DONNELL: Is he coming ? Engell nods for the door to be shut .
TO PENDER: Okay . Our N.E . put together a work-up . David .
MARMOR: They would pose as teachers from the international school .
PENDER: We went through all that it 's oarded up O'Donnell looking at the clock .
MARMOR: Suppose the airport guards do n't know that
PENDER: Suppose . Suppose Heckle and Jeckle go over and save them The door swings open .
MENDEZ: Hi . Sorry . Hi .
O'DONNELL: Have a seat , Tony .
MENDEZ: They 're a Canadian film crew on a location scout for a science fiction movie A shift in the room .
DRY: In an exfiltration , flamboyant cover identities should be avoided , as it increases
MENDEZ: This is more plausible than foreigners who want to go to school in Iran
ENGELL: So you 're going to wake up tomorrow in the movie business ? We have credentials for
MENDEZ: I 've got a contact in L.A .
CATCHING ON: Chambers .
TO PENDER: John Chambers . He 's a Hollywood prosthetics guy , ds contracting work for us on the side . If I go see him , he 'll set us up . A couple days to make it look real .
PENDER: ( after a beat , to
MENDEZ: Remind me who you are again ?
O'DONNELL: We want you to go to L.A . If you can make the movie thing credible , we 'll take it to the Director . ( a beat ; a cigarette
DRAG: Do n't fuck up . The whole country 's watching you . They just do n't know it .
LEE SCHATZ: 50 caliber ?
BOB ANDERS: Mmm . 50 , 35 .
SAHAR: Your friends from Canada , ma'am . All this time . They never go out .
J STAFFORD: You 've washed them three times .
PAT TAYLOR: Sahar knows .
MENDEZ: What are you shooting ?
CHAMBERS: A monster movie .
MENDEZ: Any good ?
CHAMBERS: The target audience will hate it .
MENDEZ: Who 's the target audience ?
CHAMBERS: People with eyes . Talk to me .
MENDEZ: It 's an exfil .
CHAMBERS: From where ?
MENDEZ: Worst place you can think of .
CHAMBERS: Universal City .
CHAMBERS: How you getting in the embassy ?
MENDEZ: Six got away . They 're hiding in the city . I 'm going over to get them .
CHAMBERS: What am I making ?
MENDEZ: I need you to help me make a fake movie .
CHAMBERS: You 've come to the right place .
MENDEZ: I need to set up a production company and build a cover around making a movie .
CHAMBERS: That we 're not going to make .
MENDEZ: No .
CHAMBERS: You want to go around Hollywood acting like you 're an important person in the movie business .
MENDEZ: That 's right .
CHAMBERS: But you do n't want to actually do anything .
MENDEZ: No .
CHAMBERS: You 'll fit right in . ARGO - Final 36 .
MENDEZ: Can you teach a guy how to be a director in a day ?
CHAMBERS: You can teach a rhesus monkey to e a director in a day . Look , if you 're gon na do it , you 've got to do it . The Khomaniacs are fruit loops , but they have cousins selling eight tracks and praye ugs on La Brea . You ca n't build cover stories around a movie that ds n't exist . You need a script . You need a producer .
MENDEZ: I 'm the producer .
CHAMBERS: No , you 're not . Associate ' at est . If it 's a twenty-million dollar Star Wars rip-off , you need somebody who 's a somebody to put his name on it .
SHAKES HANDS: I only got a couple minutes . I 'm getting a lifetime achievement award tonight .
CHAMBERS: Mazel tov , Lester .
SIEGEL: Aaah , I 'd rather stay home and count the wrinkles on my dog 's alls . These fuckin ' things are like getting measured for you coffin . He do n't look so good . Let 's give him an honorary award . '
SIEGEL: Six people in the middle of a city of , what , four million
SIEGEL: who chant Death to America ' all the livelong day . You wan na set up a picture in a week . Lie to a whole town of people who lie for a living . Have Double-O-Seven here sneak into a country that wants CIA blood with thei eakfast cereal . Duck Iranian intelligence . Then walk the Brady Bunch out of the most watched city in the world
MENDEZ: and past a hundred Komiteh at the airport .
SIEGEL: Look , I wan na help you but In the Army , we did suicide missions that had better odds . So lem me hit it again for the cheap seats
CHAMBERS: ( to Lester , as he
GETS UP: Enjoy your fish dinner tonight .
CHAMBERS: You ever think , Lester , how it 's all for the cameras ?
SIEGEL: They 're getting the ratings , I 'll give em that
CHAMBERS: It 's ancient Troy .
SIEGEL: If it 's got horses in the title , it 's a Western .
CHAMBERS: Yeah , Kenny , please . It 's John Chambers , about the office space .
THEN: It ds n't matter . It 's a fake movie .
SIEGEL: If I 'm doing a fake movie , it 's gon na be a fake hit .
TO PHONE: Is A006 still open on the lot ?
O'DONNELL: Foreign Secretary cornered Vance in Brussels and told him she 's serving eviction papers . The Cardinal wants all cover options on his desk Friday morning .
MENDEZ: That 's too soon .
O'DONNELL: Engell 's prepping the Bikes Option and the Teachers Option . You 've got 72 hours to make yours etter
MENDEZ: Fade in on starship landing . An exotic , Middle Eastern vibe . Women gather , offering ecstatic libations to the sky gods . '
LOOKS UP: ARGO . A science-fantasy adventure . ' Mendez throws down the script .
SIEGEL: It 's in turnaround . It 's dog shit .
MENDEZ: It 's a space movie in the Middle East . Ds it matter ?
TO LESTER: Can we get the option ?
MENDEZ: Why do we need the option ?
SIEGEL: You 're worried about the Ayatollah ? Try the WGA .
MENDEZ: Is it the wrong day ?
SIEGEL: It 's always the wrong day .
KLEIN: You 're gon na get this into production in one month ?
MENDEZ: One month .
KLEIN: Who are you again ?
MENDEZ: Kevin Harkins . Studio Six Films .
SIEGEL: He 's the money .
KLEIN: I thought you were retired , Lester .
SIEGEL: Till I read the Argo . Look , how bout we say fifteen thou and close on this ?
KLEIN: You want me to be honest with you , Les ?
SIEGEL: Naah , bullshit me , Max .
KLEIN: Okay . Because I enjoyed you films , the early ones . I took this meeting out of respect ecause I wanted to tell you no ' to your face .
SIEGEL: Thank you . Very respectful .
KLEIN: You 're done , Lester . You 've got ta get your cataracts fixed and read the trades . MGM just capitalized for six new films and they 're desperate for Sci-Fi . They 've already offered me four times what you are .
A BEAT: What can I say ? Congratulations . He 's got me . A beat . Mendez ready to go
SIEGEL: But see it worries me , what you said , and I 'll tell you why . A couple weeks back I was sitting in Trader Vic 's enjoying a Mai Tai when my pal Warren Beatty came to wish me well and we had a little chat . Seems he was attached to star in Zulu Empire which was gon na anchor that MGM slate but Warren confided in me that the picture 's gone over-budget cause the Zulu extras wan na unionize .
SIEGEL: The way this looks to me through the cataracts , I grant you is that you can either sign here and take ten thousand fo your toilet-paper script or you can go fuck yourself .
MENDEZ: You know Warren Beatty ?
SIEGEL: I took a leak next to him at the Golden Globes .
BEAT: Taco ?
MENDEZ: You got kids , Lester ?
SIEGEL: Two daughters .
MENDEZ: You see them much ?
SIEGEL: I talk to them once a year , maybe .
MENDEZ: Why 's that ?
SIEGEL: I was a terrible father .
BEAT: The bullshit business is like coal mining . You ca n't wash it off efore you kiss your wife and kids You ?
MENDEZ: A son . Lives with his mother in Virginia .
SIEGEL: You 're divorced ?
MENDEZ: Taking time off . He 's got ta stay where he is .
BEAT: Kids need the mother .
O'DONNELL: They caught the shah 's chief of security trying to get on a plane to Paris .
MENDEZ: War ' sounds like Star Wars . Let 's use a different word . Mendez closes the door to his private office .
O'DONNELL: Since the incident , the number of guards at the airport has doubled . Thorough background examinations should be expected . '
MENDEZ: I need another week .
O'DONNELL: You do n't have it .
MENDEZ: We 've got a script . We 've got usiness cards.We 've got a poster . If I 'm them ? It 's nothing we could n't make at home .
CHAMBERS: I did a movie with Rock Hudson once .
A BEAT: You need to sell a lie , you get the press to sell it for you . '
SIEGEL: press event and reading No , I promised Variety exclusive on that one Mendez is making a list with a PUBLICIST .
MENDEZ: Biggest Canadian production in history . ' Canadian Gone With The
SIEGEL: I got ta get back to you , Phil . I ca n't get my own mother a ticket . I had to tell her it was cancelled .
MENDEZ: Are you turning people away ?
SIEGEL: You know what gets more suckers than a sign that says Brooklyn Bridge For Sale ' ? Brooklyn Bridge Approved Buyers Only . ' Philip ? You there ?
MENDEZ: Any way to make the chariots look more Middle-Eastern ?
KIRBY: Mesopotamia Egypt
MENDEZ: Iran .
PUBLICIST: Janet from the Times You know Johnny Chambers and Lester Siegel . This is Kevin Harkins . He 'll tell you a bit about the film We leave Mendez with the L.A. Times FOLLOWING Siegel
SIEGEL: You 're gorgeous . You 're in the eading ?
NINA: I 'm playing Serksi , the Galactic Witch .
PUBLICIST: ( to Mendez ,
SIEGEL: Keep that fucking space witch away from me .
CHAMBERS: You know her ?
SIEGEL: I was married to her . Mendez , now talking to RODD , from VARIETY .
TO MENDEZ: You said shooting in Iran with an
MENDEZ: Tehran .
RODD: You ever watch the news ?
REPORTER: So the title refers to
SIEGEL: The Argo , it 's the , y'know , the
REPORTER: Jason and the Golden Fleece , or ?
CHEWING: the spaceship , it flies around space , alllll over space
REPORTER: Is it the Argonaut ? Siegel ds n't know what he 's talking about .
SIEGEL: No .
REPORTER: Then what ds Argo ' mean ?
SIEGEL: It means Argo fuck yourself .
PUBLICIST: Let 's all take our places for the eading .
ON TV: As the Imam Khomeini said , we have found no evidence that proves that these people are diplomats .
ON TV: All evidence proves that these people are spies .
AS SERKSI: Our world has changed .
PRINCESS ALEPPA: The fire of hope stopped burning in this galaxy long ago .
ACHILLES CRUX: Fire the thrusters ! !
MARK LIJEK: fifty-seven fifty-eight
ON TV: We will not yield to international terror or to blackmail .
REALIZING THE: gravity of it ) He 's marginalized the moderates now .
MARK LIJEK: A hundred and twelve
DIRECTIONS:  on a single red flowe growing from the ruins of the starship in the desert . Fade to lack . The End . '
MENDEZ: Why 'd he do it ?
O'DONNELL: He saw a covert intelligence officer saying cheese ' with R2- D2 . They 're going with the teachers .
MENDEZ: It 's a death sentence , Jack .
O'DONNELL: Well then it 's on Engell .
A BEAT: It 's done , Tony . Wash your hands .
SIEGEL: I made thirty pictures . Half of them the pricks upstairs tried to shut me down . Mendez finishes packing , zips up the bag .
SIEGEL: My ass is staying right here and unning a movie company .
POURS: Ey . The first shot of the picture .
CHAMBERS: Argo fuck yourself . They raise to that .
MENDEZ: How 'd you always get around the pricks upstairs ?
SIEGEL: There 's always another prick one floor higher up .
O'DONNELL: What did you do to get the meeting ?
MENDEZ: I used your name . Jack looks to Tony .
MENDEZ: You can forget about that time- share in Ocean City , Jack .
O'DONNELL: Brace yourself . It 's like talking to those two old fucks on The Muppets . '
DAY: A concept drawing from Argo .
TURNER: You 're telling me there 's a movie office in Hollywood right now that 's funded by the Central Intelligence Agency .
MENDEZ: Yes , sir .
VANCE: What 's wrong with the bikes again ?
TURNER: this is more plausible than teachers ?
O'DONNELL: One , there are no foreign teachers in Iran anymore
MENDEZ: two , we think everybody knows Hollywood people . And everybody thinks they would shoot during Stalingrad with Pol Pot directing if it 'd sell tickets .
BEAT: There are only bad options . It 's about finding the best one .
TURNER: You do n't have a better bad idea than this ?
O'DONNELL: This is the best bad idea we have , sir . By far . Vance and Turner exchange looks .
TO MENDEZ: The United States government just sanctioned your science fiction movie .
O'DONNELL: I 'm required to remind you that if you 're detained , the agency will not claim you .
MENDEZ: Barely claim me as it is .
O'DONNELL: Your In Case Of 's ' good ?
MENDEZ: Just Christine .
O'DONNELL: Nah . They 'll kill you long before prison .
SIEGEL: Bad news , bad news , even when it 's good news it 's bad news . Christ . ( a phone starts
RINGING: John Wayne 's in the ground six months and this is what 's left of America .
CHAMBERS: ( picking up the
PHONE: Studio Six .
MENDEZ: We 've got a green light . Chambers gives Siegel a thumbs-up .
YOU: Argo fuck yourself .
CHAMBERS: Argo fuck yourself .
BOB ANDERS: it was thirty seconds fo Christ 's sake . To get some air in the yard . I could n't breathe
SOMETHING ROUSED: Do n't talk to her that way .
LEE SCHATZ: Dad 's home .
TAYLOR: You 're getting a visitor .
JORDAN: A man in Scranton 's putting a flag on his lawn for every day of captivity .
BEAT: When he runs out of lawn , Kennedy wins the primary . Vance hands him the folder .
LIAISON: The six with the Canadians are coming out .
JORDAN: Who signed off on this ?
CONSUL OFFICIAL: What will be the purpose of you visit to Iran ?
MENDEZ: Business . Film production .
CONSUL OFFICIAL: Why did n't you get your visa in Canada ?
MENDEZ: My boss waited until I was here to send the telex .
LIGHTING CIGARETTE: If he had a thought in his head , it would die of loneliness .
MENDEZ: Ca n't be right all the time .
NICHOLLS: Mr. Harkins .
MENDEZ: When 'd you get back ?
NICHOLLS: None left to find . Shah escaped with a 747 so laden with gold bars it nearly did n't make it off the unway .
MENDEZ: But you kept busy .
NICHOLLS: Ferrying out the torture apparatus of our friend 's fallen dictatorship .
MENDEZ: So if they look , they 'll know six people did n't come in with me .
NICHOLLS: If they look . Nicholls and Tony turn away from the mosaic ,
MENDEZ: How 's June ?
NICHOLLS: Left .
MENDEZ: I 'm sorry .
NICHOLLS: She picked out a ring and gave me a choice . She 's a Chinese national . If I married her , I 'd have to resign , so . You and Christine ?
MENDEZ: Good . Yeah .
PRODUCER: You 're working late .
SIEGEL: Til the dawn 's early light .
PRODUCER: You got stamina , Lester . I wan na e you .
SIEGEL: You would n't be me for long . I 'm
BEHROUZ: This film crew is just yourself ?
MENDEZ: Six more are joining me today . They 're coming from Canada .
BEHROUZ: You 'd like to film at the bazaar ?
MENDEZ: The bazaar , maybe the palace .
FRIENDLY: I see . The exotic Orient . Snake charmers and flying carpets .
A BEAT: You come to us at a complicated time . Before the Revolution , 40 percent of the movie theaters in Tehran were showing pornography . Our function is purification as well as promotion of the arts .
TAKES SCRIPT: I 'll review for the Minister . ARGO - Final 67 .
MENDEZ: Mr . Ambassador .
TAYLOR: Ken Taylor .
MENDEZ: You 're thinking of FBI , sir . They get into the car .
TAYLOR: These are blank , y'know . The stamps ?
MENDEZ: I 'll take care of that .
TAYLOR: How long ?
MENDEZ: A day to prep them with thei cover stories . Two if they need it .
TAYLOR: And you 'll fly out with them ?
TAYLOR: There 's something you should know . We think one of our housekeepers figured out who they are . We do n't know if we can trust her .
O'DONNELL: He got to the embassy .
PENDER: The Times and A.P . found out they 're with the Canadians . Somebody in one of the families talked .
O'DONNELL: Mother of God .
PENDER: I just put Vance on a plane to take the editors to Le Cirque . He thinks he can get them to sit on it . For now .
A BEAT: Your guy better get them and get the hell out . ARGO - Final 69 .
BOB ANDERS: It 's theater of the absurd .
MARK LIJEK: What are the chances ?
MENDEZ: The chances are good .
MARK LIJEK: What 's the number value of good ' ? 30 percent chance of success ? 80 percent ?
CORA LIJEK: We just
BOB ANDERS: What was the objection to picking normal cover identities ?
MENDEZ: There are no Canadians in the country for normal reasons .
BOB ANDERS: We ca n't stand up to that . We do n't know what the hell movie people do .
MENDEZ: That 's why I 'm here . I 'll be with you . This is what I do .
CORA LIJEK: Have you gotten people out this way before ?
MENDEZ: This would be a first .
J STAFFORD: every day they catch anothe friend of the shah at the airport . Kangaroo trials then firing squads . Just for having American names in their phone books .
MENDEZ: Harkins .
J STAFFORD: Is that your real name ? A beat .
MENDEZ: No .
TAYLOR: We 've got orders to close the embassy and go back . There 's nowhere for them to stay .
J STAFFORD: I 'm serious , too . This is what ?
BOB ANDERS: I saw it in Burma . They get people out . They know how .
J STAFFORD: Snitches in banana republics . They get them over the borde after the coup
MARK LIJEK: His opinion got us out of the embassy in the first place . ARGO - Final 72 .
MENDEZ: If we go , you need to leave immediately . There 's a
TAYLOR: Pat and I discussed it . If they catch you at the airport , they come here and we go on trial fo harboring the enemy . It 's a risk we took . Can you pull this off ?
MENDEZ: I do n't know .
J STAFFORD: even if they do . They find us here , we 're not lying , we 're just hiding . We go out there with fake passports , we 're spies , period , execution .
CORA LIJEK: So how long do we stay ? A month ? A year ?
J STAFFORD: That man out there , he 's got bad cards , he 's gon na lose . If he loses , it 's our lives .
KATHY STAFFORD: And his life too . Another beat . ANGLES ON the Houseguests .
MENDEZ: Your cover identities were created specifically for each one of you .
BELLHOP: Sir , a telex arrived for you .
MENDEZ: He will send a representative to meet you and your crew at the Khayyam entrance to the Grand Bazaar tomorrow at 3 PM . '
O'DONNELL: They called your bluff .
MENDEZ: Or maybe they 're cooperating .
O'DONNELL: N.E . says absolutely not . Seven Americans walking the bazaar , you 're asking for a riot , it 's the
MENDEZ: Seven Canadians , Jack .
O'DONNELL: Never give them multiple shots at a cover . Are they even ready ?
MENDEZ: They 're getting there .
O'DONNELL: Terrific . There 's no prize fo Most Improved . '
ESCALATING: I do n't have a choice . We say no , they come to the residence and pull everyone out at gunpoint . How do you think the covers hold up with their fingernails pulled out ?
J STAFFORD: We are a nation of 35 million and many of these people are looking forward to martyrdom.
TO KATHY: Five minutes ?
J STAFFORD: She pleaded with me . Mark , looking to J . This is new .
A BEAT: I think we 're gon na die here .
CORA LIJEK: You said a day to learn you covers then straight to the airport . ' You said that .
BOB ANDERS: They suspect something ?
MENDEZ: What I know is we need to act like a movie crew . We go to the bazaa today , we fly out tomorrow .
J STAFFORD: We wo n't do it .
MARK LIJEK: He told them there were six of us . They 're expecting six .
TO MENDEZ: You are about to show the only card we 're holding . Which is that they do n't know we 're here .
MENDEZ: I 'm asking you to trust me .
J STAFFORD: I do n't trust you .
BOB ANDERS: What 's the alternative ? This is the ball game , J . What world are you living in ?
J STAFFORD: The one where they 're hanging people from construction cranes , Bob .
TO MENDEZ: So we 'll see you at two ?
PAT TAYLOR: This one .
CORA LIJEK: ( at a mirror , quoting
INSTRUCTIONS: So do n't be recognizable , but look exactly like your passport picture .
MARK LIJEK: Not that picture . You wo n't want to scare them . A nervous smile . Trying to deal with anxiety .
PAT TAYLOR: Hello ? A cloud comes over Pat as she listens .
BOB ANDERS: Who was it ? Pat shakes her head .
TO J: Somebody knows .
MENDEZ: This one , how much ? One day , how much ?
J STAFFORD: I wish I could believe you , Mr. Harkins .
MENDEZ: My name is Tony Mendez .
LEE SCHATZ: Mike McEwan , cameraman .
BOB ANDERS: Robert Baker , director .
MARK LIJEK: Timothy Harris , location manager .
CORA LIJEK: Mary Ann Boyd , screenwriter .
KATHY STAFFORD: Rachel Dewart , production designer . Kathy looks at her husband .
J STAFFORD: Sean Bissett , associate producer .
MENDEZ: Let 's make a movie . ARGO - Final 81 .
REZA: You are the director ?
BOB ANDERS: Yes .
PLEASANT: Is this film a foreign bride film ?
BOB ANDERS: I 'm sorry ?
REZA: A film where a foreign bride is ought to Iran , but she ds n't understand the language and customs and there are misunderstandings and laughs .
BOB ANDERS: No .
REZA: Mmmm .
QUIET: Mike ?
LEE SCHATZ: Yeh .
MENDEZ: If I said you were looking through the wrong end of that viewfinder , would I be right ?
LEE SCHATZ: Yep .
SAHAR: ( Farsi , from behind
THE GATE: Yes ? ARGO - Final 83 .
TO KATHY: He wants the photograph you took .
MENDEZ: She 's the production designer . Her job is to take photographs .
REZA: He says he did not give you permission to take a photograph of his store .
KATHY STAFFORD: He can have the photograph . Tell
FARSI: When did they arrive ?
FARSI: I 'm sorry ?
FARSI: The guests of the ambassador . How long have they been in this house ?
IN ENGLISH: America NO ! NO !
LEE SCHATZ: He 's saying the Shah killed his son with an American gun . Cauldron heating up and
DAY: ON Sahar her face impassive and then
FARSI: Two days . They arrived two days ago . Khalkali looks to the other Officials .
DAY: A CROWD starts to gather around the group .
CORA LIJEK: Canada Ca-na-da
LEE SCHATZ: He says we 're the CIA taking photographs to plan the bombing of the city .
FARSI: Sister , those who are with him , Rasool of Allah , we are tende among ourselves .
BEAT: But stern against the kuffar .
SAHAR: As god wills it .
QUOTING MOSSADEGH: But those who sit silently have sinned .
SAHAR: Everyone in this house is a friend of Iran .
TAYLOR: They drew you out there to take your picture .
MENDEZ: Nobody broke .
SOBERED NOW: And tomorrow ?
MENDEZ: Tomorrow they 'll be ready .
MENDEZ: Where was your passport issued ?
ANDERS: Vancouver .
MENDEZ: Where were you born ?
BOB ANDERS: Toronto .
MENDEZ: Toronno like piranha . Canadians do n't pronounce the T .
LEE SCHATZ: Some border guard 's gon na know that ?
MENDEZ: If you 're held for questioning , they 'll bring in somebody who knows that .
CORA LIJEK: Trudeau , Pearson , Diefenbaker .
MENDEZ: Good . Your job on the film .
J STAFFORD: Producer .
MENDEZ: Associate Producer . What 's the name of the last film you worked on ?
J STAFFORD: Uh High and Dry .
MENDEZ: Who paid for the movie ?
MENDEZ: What 's your middle name ?
J STAFFORD: ( nearly defeated ,
LOOKING AWAY: You think your little story will matter when there 's guns to ou heads ?
MENDEZ: My story 's the only thing between you and the gun to your head .
MENDEZ: Let 's go again .
GOOD NEWS: They made it through the location scout .
TAYLOR: Kevin .
O'DONNELL: Go to black on green .
MENDEZ: What is it ?
O'DONNELL: Go to black on green . Mendez turns knobs on the satellite phone .
O'DONNELL: It all just changed . They called the game . You 've got to come ack . ON Mendez , not believing what he 's hearing .
MENDEZ: I never would have exposed them if I was n't authorized to take them out .
O'DONNELL: It 's over , Tony .
MENDEZ: They will be taken . Probably not
O'DONNELL: LISTEN TO ME . The thinking 's changed . Six Americans get pulled out of a Canadian diplomat 's house and executed , it 's another world outrage . Six Americans get caught playing movie make-believe with the CIA at the airport and executed , it 's a national embarrassment . They 're calling the operation .
MENDEZ: We 're responsible for those people .
GENUINELY SAD: What we are is required to follow orders . I 'm sorry .
CORA LIJEK: We 're ready to try again .
MENDEZ: I think the most important thing you can do to be ready fo tomorrow is rest .
BOB ANDERS: Scorched earth policy tonight . Nothing gets left .
MENDEZ: So you know .
NODS: ExtAff wants you to burn the passports before you leave .
TAYLOR: If we tell them , they 'll panic . It 's better if you just do n't show .
CHAMBERS: It 's off . They want us to pack up the office .
SIEGEL: They can wait . Let 's go get a drink .
KATHY STAFFORD: He 's late .
O'DONNELL: Yeah . ARGO - Final 94 .
MENDEZ: Somebody is responsible for things when things happen , Jack . I am esponsible .
A BEAT: I 'm taking them through .
O'DONNELL: We need to confirm those seven tickets out of Tehran on
SOSA: N.E . shut that down .
O'DONNELL: I 'm saying it 's back on !
SOSA: I ca n't do it . It 's backstopped pending Executive Branch GO .
O'DONNELL: What the fuck ds that mean ?
SOSA: Carter 's got to say yes for us to get the tickets .
O'DONNELL: Where 's Engell ?
SECRETARY: He 's in a meeting .
O'DONNELL: Pull him out .
PAT TAYLOR: Sahar 's on a bus .
MENDEZ: Good . And you two leave right now . Ken Taylor nods . Mendez shakes his hand .
TAYLOR: ( to Gauthier , as he
LEAVES: Get to your flight .
ENGELL: N.E . said NO , this is not a long- leasher
O'DONNELL: It is going .
ENGELL: You 're goddamn close
O'DONNELL: Am I goddamn close ?
ENGELL: You 're goddamn close to the line with me .
MENDEZ: Your passports came straight from the Canadians , so you 're gon na be fine .
PRESENT: O'Donnell , charging in
O'DONNELL: Where 's the Director ?
MALINOV: He 's on the plane .
O'DONNELL: Find White House Chief of Staff .
MALINOV: How would I find him ?
O'DONNELL: We 're a fucking SPY AGENCY ! FIND
MENDEZ: The second checkpoint
MALINOV: Jordan 's in the West Wing . He 's not taking calls . A beat on O'Donnell .
O'DONNELL: Where are his kids ?
O'DONNELL: Where do his kids go to school ?
MENDEZ: The second is immigration . You 'll hand them these . They say you landed two days ago .
MALINOV: Pace Academy in Buckhead , Georgia ! O'Donnell dials a number .
O'DONNELL: Yes , it 's Mr. Murphy calling from Pace Academy for Mr. Jordan I 'm afraid it IS an emergency
MENDEZ: It 's manned by Revolutionaries . Most of them were educated in the U.S. or Europe .
BOB ANDERS: Or Canada ?
MENDEZ: They know how many T 's are in Toronto .
JORDAN: Hello ?
DOOR: DAVID ! Pick up !
LAMONT: Telex on Flash . The telex begins to print , line by line
O'DONNELL: Copy D.S. ! Confirm the tickets !
SWISSAIR REP: I 'm sorry , sir . I do n't have those reservations
MALINOV: Swissair says they 've picked up the tickets .
O'DONNELL: Get the L.A. office tell them to be ready in case they call .
MALINOV: We told them to shut that down ! He RUNS toward a phone
WHITE PILE: Nothing .
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: When did you say you arrived in Iran ?
BOB ANDERS: Two days ago .
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: What was the purpose of you visit ?
BOB ANDERS: We were looking at locations to make a film . I 'm the director .
VERY CALM: We have a letter from the Ministe of Culture
IMMIGRATION OFFICER: Okay Yes Okay
MALINOV: C'mon c'mon c'mon
KOMITEH #1: Passports .
LAMONT: Purser 's telling Swissair they 're not on the plane .
O'DONNELL: They should have boarded already .
MALINOV: Still no answer in L.A .
MARK LIJEK: A film .
AZIZI: ( harsh , icy ; in
FARSI: You . You had no business in Iran .
FARSI: We did . We were preparing to make a movie here , sir .
FARSI: You do n't have journalist visas .
FARSI: Not a documentary . A movie .
FARSI: You see ? Kevin , where 's your briefcase ?
FARSI: These are the villains . Y'see these guys here ? And these are the hers in the spice market
FARSI: They know our hero is the Chosen One , so they kidnap his son in the spice market They have these chariots like this one
AZIZI: ( to J Stafford ; in
ENGLISH: You do n't go until we verify .
MENDEZ: You can call our office .
SIEGEL: I 'm sorry , pally . We 're just gon na e in the movie . Call my agent .
AZIZI: May I speak to Mr. Kevin Harkins
AZIZI: No message .
THEM: Our gift to you . From our film .
ENGLISH: Ladies and gentlemen , from the flight-deck . We 're looking at a ief delay
HEADPHONES: We have wheels up .
O'DONNELL: Wait .
MALINOV: They 're CLEAR !
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Sir ? J gs back to his seat . HOLD ON Tony Mendez .
SIEGEL: It 's history , is what it is . History plays out first as farce , then as tragedy . '
CHAMBERS: The quote 's the other way around .
SIEGEL: Who said it ?
CHAMBERS: Marx .
SIEGEL: Groucho ?
CHAMBERS: Karl .
LAMONT: ( a couple of beers
ALONG: We are the good guys !
MALINOV: The Canadians are the good guys .
LAMONT: we 're not greedy them too
MALINOV: Only . Canada takes the credit , o they 'll retaliate against the hostages . Great Satan was n't involved . No CIA .
LAMONT: Is that right , Jack ?
O'DONNELL: Involved in what ? We 're as surprised as anybody . Thank you , Canada .
SIEGEL: She said , Why could n't we pull off something like that ? ' You know what I said to her ?
MENDEZ: Wha 'd you say to her ?
SIEGEL: I said , Argo fuck yourself . '
O'DONNELL: And I left my autograph book at home . His Eminence called me . He wants to see you .
MENDEZ: He wants to fire me himself .
O'DONNELL: He wants to give you the Intelligence Star . You 're getting the highest award of merit of the Clandestine Services of these United States . Ceremony 's two weeks from today . Mendez stops walking . A beat .
MENDEZ: If they push it a week , I can ing Ian . That 's his winte eak .
O'DONNELL: The op was classified so the ceremony 's classified . He ca n't know about it . Nobody can know about it .
MENDEZ: They 're gon na hand me an award , then they 're gon na take it back ?
O'DONNELL: If we wanted applause , we would have joined the circus .
MENDEZ: I thought we did .
O'DONNELL: ( yelling to Tony ; an
AFTERTHOUGHT: Carter said you were a great American .
YELLING BACK: A great American what ?
O'DONNELL: He did n't say .
PRODUCER: What happened to your picture ?
CHAMBERS: It 's in turnaround . He turns out the lights .
MENDEZ: Hi .
CHRISTINE: Hi . They look at each other .
NIGHT: A scene of the Old West on a television .
V.0: It just is n't working . Any suggestions ?
UNISON: Hole Number Seventy-Six ! The Oil Executives stand off , watching . Oil Executive 1 Seventy-Six ?
JIMBO: But we 're approved .
V.O: How 's she look ?
UNISON: Director Golden ! DIRECTOR GOLDEN ! BACKSTAGE - Golden approaches Collinswood .
V.0: Houston , you got ta see this to believe it .
V.O: What is it , Willie ?
FOOTBALL: SUITCASE .
ASH: Why would you say that I am insane ? I would n't say that I 've lost my mind simply because I 've heard the voices and seen the godless things moving in the woods . If anything , I think more clearly now than ever before . I know now that there is such a thing as a living Evil . A dark and shapeless thing that lives not in the spaces we know , but etween them . In the Dark . In the night . And it wants the exact same thing as you and I a chance at warm life on this Earth . It does n't care that is already had that chance once . Now listen closely because there is n't much time . Listen and believe , because it 's all true .
"BRUCE CAMPBELL": `` Vs '' The smoke is wisked away , then reforms as
WARRIOR #1: Hail to him who has come from the sky to deliver us from the terro of the Deadites ! Hail !
ASH: Take is easy now chief . I do n't know how I got here and I 'm not lookin ' for any trouble .
WISEMAN JOHN: My Lord Arthur , I believe he is the promised one , written of in the Necronomicon .
ARTHUR: He bleeds . As a man bleeds . The one written of in the Book would not bleed .
ASH: Where the hell they put the stirrups on this thing ! ! ? ?
ARTHUR: LIEUTENANTS ! Fetch me the blackard .
ASH: GIDDYPU ! 46 THE FIRST HORSEMAN 46
ARTHUR: Bring the prisoner !
ASH: No !
ARTHUR: To the castle !
GOLD TOOTH: Move along now !
ARTHUR: Eye . And fought valiantly . But last night fell in battle to Duke Henry 's men .
DUKE HENRY: You sir , are not one of my vassals . Who are you ?
ASH: Who wants to know ?
DUKE HENRY: I am Henry the Red . Duke of Shale . Lord of the Northlands and leade of its people .
ASH: You ai n't leadin ' but two things now , pal . Jack and shit . And Jack left town .
ARTHUR: There is an Evil that has awakened in this land . And whilst my people fight for their very souls against it , you , Duke Henry the Red , wage war on us . Your people are no better than the foul corruption that lies in the bowels of that pit ! May God have mercy on your souls .
OLD WOMAN: Aye . Into the pit with the loodthirsty sons of whores !
ASH: Hey , I never even saw these assholes before.. He spins to Duke Henry the Red . You got ta tell 'em you do n't know me . We never met . Tell him .
HENRY: I do not believe that he shall listen .
ASH: Come on , you blasted piece of
ARTHUR: Nay . Henry is my prisoners . He
ASH: GIDDYUP NOW ! ! HYAAAH ! 153 THE STUNNED CROWD 153 parts allowing
ARTHUR: For that , I shall see you dead .
ASH: This is my boomstick . It 's a twelve gauge , double barreled Remington pump . Next one of you primitives touch me
SHEILA: I pray thee to forgive me . I elieved thee one of Henry 's men . She touches Ash 's hand . Ash turns away
ASH: First you wanta kill me , now ya wan na kiss me . He spits out a mouthful of grape seeds .
SHEILA: I 'm sorry m'lord . Please understand T'is a cruel time for us . The Wisemen say you are the promised one . Our only hope against the darkness that has descended on this land .
ASH: They 're mistaken . She stares deeply into his eyes .
SHEILA: I think not . I feel that there is reason for your being here . It is no accident .
ASH: Well what is it ? Can you send me ack or not ?
WISEMAN JOHN: Only the Necronomicon has the power . A power which we both equire . It contains passages that can dispel the Evil from this place and return you to your time .
ASH: The Necronomicon . Yeah , that 's the thing that got me here .
WISEMAN JOHN: It is in a place far from here . It can only be retrieved by the Promised one . Other Warriors have tried . Their widows grieve still . We have waited long years for you . Out only hope is the Necronomicon . Thou must undertake to quest fo it . Alone must thou travel to a distant cemetery . There thou shalt find it .
ASH: Me ? Now way , no day . Only place I 'm goin ' is home .
POSSESSED WOMAN: YOU SHALL DIE !
ASH: It 's a trick . Get an axe .
POSSESSED WOMAN: The Evil lives . Slay me and ten will rise to take my place . All will die . ALL WILL -
WISEMAN JOHN: Now . Will thou quest for the Necronomicon ?
ARTHUR: points to
WISEMAN JOHN: This is the edge of the land ruled y the Dark Spirit . This path will lead you to an unholy place . A cemetery . There , the Necronomicon awaits .
WARRIOR #1: Lord Arthur , he is supplied . Now I beg of you , let us leave this foul place .
ARTHUR: A moment .
WISEMAN JOHN: As thou removest the Book from it 's cradle , you must recite these words . Clatoo , verata , Nicto .
ASH: Clatto Verata Nicto . Okay .
WISEMAN JOHN: Repeat them .
ASH: Clatto Verata Nicto .
WISEMAN #1: Again .
ASH: I got it . I got it . I know you damn words . All right ? Now you get this straight I get the book , you send me back . That 's the deal . After that I 'm history .
GOOD ASH: What are you ? Are you me ?
BAD ASH: WHAT ARE GOO ? ARE GOO ME ? ! ! You sound like a jerk !
GOOD ASH: Why are you doing this ? !
BAD ASH: Wan na know ? 'cause the answers easy . It 's cause I 'm the bad Ash , and yer
EVIL ASH: Little goody two-
GOOD ASH: GoodBadI 'm the Ash with the gun .
ASH: I know better than to bury you whole .
WISEMAN JOHN: Something is amiss .
ASH: No.. no more
GOLD TOOTH: Open the gates . The Promised one has returned !
THE DRAWBRIDGE: swings down .
VILLAGERS: The stranger has returned ! He 's ought the book !
ASH: is led to the THREE WISEMEN .
WISEMAN JOHN: The Necronomicon . Quickly .
ASH: Yes . It 's just that
WISEMAN JOHN: Just what ? !
ASH: Nothing . Here Ash produces the Necronomicon . Now send be back . Like in the deal .
WISEMAN JOHN: NoI sensed something had gone awry . The book 's power . It 's gone .
ASH: Yeah . basically .
WISEMAN JOHN: Did you speak the exact words ? !
ASH: Well , maybe not every single syllable , no . But basically I said them . Yes .
WISEMAN JOHN: Dung eating fool ! Thou hast doomed us . When thou misspoke the words the Army of the Dead was awoke .
ASH: Hey . We had a deal . You told me , you could clean this thing up , once I got you the book . You said there was a passage in there that could get rid of this thing and send me back .
WISEMAN JOHN: The passage is useless to us as long as these evil dead walk . They have a terrible desire for this ook . And they shall come here to get it . Once in thei possession , the Evil shall rule the Earth for one thousand yearsBecause of youwe are doomed .
ASH: You wanted the damn book . You got yer book . I did my part of the deal .
WISEMAN JOHN: We did strike a bargain . I will eturn you to your own time as promised .
ASH: Yeah . Well good . That was the deal . So uhwhen do you think we can
ARTHUR: The Wisemen were fools to believe that you were the Promised one . That one such as you could have saved us ! .
SHEILA: I still believe that thou wilt help us .
ASH: No.. They 're right . I screwed up . I did n't come through for you , and I 'm sorry for it .
SHEILA: I still have faith in thee . In my heart I know thou wilt still succeed .
ASH: Sheila It 's over for me . I do n't belong here and I 'm going home . I did n't have what it took . It 's over . He bows his head and moves off . A high pitched SHRIEK is heard !
SHEILA: M'Lord Ash ! Help me !
ASH: Damn you !
SCOUT: An army of the dead ! They have gathered in the wilderness and come this way .
ARTHUR: How far from here ?
SCOUT: But two days ride .
ARTHUR: Then these winged ones are only the first of them .
WISEMAN: Perhaps we should go from this place while we can .
GOLD TOOTH: We could be safe in the mountains .
WARRIORS: Yes ! To the mountains ! We must flee ! They 'll take our souls !
ASH: Go ahead and run . Run home and cry to mama . I 'm through runnin ' . I stay we stay and fight .
ARTHUR: How will we stop an army of the dead at out castle walls ? How will you fight that ? ! With more words ? Most of out people have already fled . We are but forty men .
ASH: We 'll get Henry the Red and his men to fight with us .
ARTHUR: We shall not stand in battle , alongside the likes of him . Ou honor will not allow it .
ASH: Then you 'll die . Honor and all . Now who 's with me ?
BLACKSMITH: I 'll stand by you .
WARRIOR #7: You may count on my steel .
WARRIOR #8: And mine !
SHEILA: Do n't touch me ! You foul thing !
EVIL ASH: Your gon na learn to live me missy .
SHEILA: The Promised one will come fo you .
EVIL ASH: Darlin ' I 'm gon na save him the trouble .
HENRY: Stay your arms ! Henry turns to Ash .
ASH: The Army of the Dead .
HENRY: What of them ?
ASH: They 're headed towards Arthur 's castle . We need your help . Fight with us .
HENRY: So you are a vassal of Arthur now ? You have taken up sides with him against me .
ASH: The only side I 'm takin ' is the one that 's gon na stop those things . Henry laughs .
HENRY: Why should I endanger my people to save my enemy ?
ASH: Because after they finish with Arthur they 'll come after you . Together , we 've got a chance . Besides , you owe me .
EVIL ASH: Who rules ? !
WARRIOR #9: No , M'Lord .
ASH: I ca n't hear you !
WARRIOR #9: NO , M'LORD ! ! ASH You squeekin ' like a mouse ! Are you a mouse boy ? !
ASH: Only two things come from Perth steers and queers . Which are you ?
WARRIOR: They 're coming ! The Deadites approach !
SKELETON CAPTAIN: M'Lord ! We are positioned on both fronts !
EVIL ASH: Where are they keeping my book ?
ASH: Arrows !
ARTHUR: Load !
ASH: Fire !
ARTHUR: Fire !
SCOUT: M'Lord ! A second division approaching from the South .
ASH: CATAPULTSSOUTH ! 531 INT . COURTYARD 531 THREE WOODEN CATAPULTS are wheeled into position .
ARTHUR: Powder !
EVIL ASH: You need n't bother .
ARTHUR: Where is Henry ? !
ASH: He 'll be here .
ARTHUR: I think he will not . But know this . No matter how this battle fares , I was wrong to think you a coward .
EVIL ASH: The book shall be mine ! He raises his rusty sword .
WARRIOR #2: We ca n't hold this wall much longer !
EVIL SHEILA: Thou didst find me beautiful once .
ASH: HoneyYou got real ugly .
WISEMAN JOHN: hands the flask of liquid to Ash .
ASH: rides off .
THE UMPIRE: Strike ! You 're out !
ELAINE: Elaine Harper .
THE CLERK: Speak a little louder . She speaks louder .
ELAINE: Elaine Harper .
THE CLERK: Thank you . Yours ?
MORTIMER: Mortimer Brewster . The clerk puts his hand back around his ear .
THE CLERK: How 's that ?
MORTIMER: Mortimer Brewster .
MORTIMER: I want to keep this undercover .
MORTIMER: No-no , you do n't understand . Come here , come .
THE CLERK: You 're who ?
MORTIMER: Mortimer Brew
ELAINE: Yes , Mortimer .
ELAINE: No , Mortimer .
O'HARA: Are the original owners still over there ?
O'HARA: Pressed rose leaves ?
O'HARA: Then , so why here do they rent a room for ?
TEDDY: I must be catching cold .
ABBY: No , dear . It was Reverend Harper who sneezed . Bless you .
BROPHY: Remember now , watch your language .
O'HARA: Besides , you know I 'm not a swearing man .
ABBY: Oh , will you excuse me ? She gets up from her armchair .
BROPHY: Miss Abby , we came for the toys .
ABBY: Oh yes . O'Hara closes the door .
O'HARA: How are you doing ?
TEDDY: Gentlemen , what news have you brought me ? Brophy salutes him and stands at attention .
BROPHY: Colonel , we have nothing to report .
O'HARA: Huh ?
TEDDY: Splendid ! Thank you , gentlemen . At ease .
O'HARA: How do you do , sir ? It 's nice to meet you . O'Hara looks ill at ease under Teddy 's stare .
TEDDY: Charge !
ABBY: How 's Missis Brophy ?
ABBY: Oh , Stuff and nonsense ! I wo n't be a minute . She moves away and exits into the kitchen .
BROPHY: Now do n't do that again . Do you hear me ?
REVEREND HARPER: Oh , he 's quite harmless .
O'HARA: Huh ?
MARTHA: Oh , well , now , is n't this nice ! She goes to Brophy and the Reverend .
BROPHY: Good afternoon , Miss Brewster .
MARTHA: How do you do , Mr Brophy ?
REVEREND HARPER: Good afternoon , Miss Brewster .
MARTHA: Reverend Harper , how do you do ?
O'HARA: How do you do , ma'am ?
MARTHA: I 'm very glad to know you .
O'HARA: Thank you . Abby joins the group .
ABBY: Oh , Martha , you 're back .
BROPHY: You bet I will , and thank you very much .
TEDDY: The Army and Navy are ready for action . He resumes his walking down the stairs .
TEDDY: What 's this ? The Oregon ?
MARTHA: Oh , Teddy , dear , put it back . She has taken her hat off .
TEDDY: But the Oregon goes to Australia .
ABBY: Now , Teddy
TEDDY: No , it goes to Australia .
BROPHY: These are lovely . Thank you very much .
ABBY: Not at all .
BROPHY: The children will go crazy .
ABBY: Oh , now , do n't mention it . O'Hara salutes Teddy .
O'HARA: Well So long , Colonel .
BROPHY: Hey ?
TEDDY: Dismissed ! Brophy and O'Hara bring their arms down .
BROPHY: Well , goodbye and thank you .
ABBY: Good bye .
BROPHY: Good night .
TEDDY: Young man , let that be a lesson to you .
ABBY: Goodbye .
REVEREND HARPER: Well , I must be going .
TEDDY: Charge !
REVEREND HARPER: Blockhouse ?
MARTHA: Oh , the stairs are always San Juan Hill .
REVEREND HARPER: Oh , I
ABBY: Bless you !
ABBY: Oh , no ! She goes to the grandfather 's clock .
MARTHA: Oh , he 's so happy being Teddy Roosevelt .
ABBY: Oh , do you remember , Martha ?
REVEREND HARPER: Yes , indeed . That is quite a problem .
REVEREND HARPER: Splendid idea ! A very pleasant place .
MARTHA: Yes
ABBY: Dear , sweet Reverend Harper .
ABBY: Yes . And dinner 's going to be late , too .
MARTHA: Ohh ! Why ?
ABBY: Teddy ?
TEDDY: Delighted ! He rubs his hands
MARTHA: Abby ! While I was out ?
MARTHA: But all by yourself .
ABBY: Oh , I got along fine .
MARTHA: I 'll run right downstairs and see . She goes to the cellar door .
MARTHA: Well ?
ABBY: Martha , just look in the window-seat .
ELAINE: You , darlings . She winks at them , and then runs away .
MARTHA: But , Elaine !
MORTIMER: Elaine !
CAB DRIVER: You 'd better take her hat .
MORTIMER: Oh thanks . The driver goes back inside the car .
CAB DRIVER: Yeah !
MARTHA: There they are .
MORTIMER: Here 's your hat .
MORTIMER: What ? What 's the matter ?
ELAINE: He was against it .
MORTIMER: Ah ! But that was only Sunday .
MORTIMER: One thing at a time . She starts running away from him .
ELAINE: Oh ! There 's that look again !
ELAINE: Oh , I can handle Father . He 's a dear .
ELAINE: Niagara Falls ? Mortimer nods .
CAB DRIVER: I wonder what Mary 's doing now ?
MORTIMER: Whistle when you 're ready . Oh , Elaine She turns around .
ELAINE: Yeah .
ELAINE: No , not now ! She opens her door .
MARTHA: Look surprised when he tells us .
MORTIMER: Aunt Abby , Aunt Martha !
ABBY: Yes , of course .
MARTHA: And , of course , a wedding cake .
ABBY: Oh , it 's all ready . It 's been ready since..
MARTHA: Oh , we knew you 'd find out about it in time . Mortimer laughs and hugs his aunts .
ABBY: You mean  Mind Over Matrimony  ?
MORTIMER: Yes ! Shhh ! Where are they ?
ABBY: I hid them someplace
MORTIMER: Come on , come on . Let 's go . Abby turns back to him .
ABBY: Now you behave . She goes away on her search .
MORTIMER: Let 's find them before Elaine sees them .
TEDDY: Hello , Mortimer ! They shake hands .
MORTIMER: How are you , Mister President ?
TEDDY: Yes , I know . Is n't it wonderful ?
MORTIMER: Goodbye , Mister President .
TEDDY: A new lock for the canal , you know .
ABBY: Oh , dear .
MORTIMER: Did you find those notes ?
ABBY: No ? Really ?
ABBY: Oh , dear ! Abby goes into the kitchen .
ABBY: Happy bridegroom !
MARTHA: Congratulations , darling !
MORTIMER: Never mind that now . I know .
ABBY: Oh , yes , dear . That 's after we 're gone . They move away to start setting the table .
MARTHA: But , there 's no such hurry as yet , you know .
MARTHA: Nonsense !
MORTIMER: But there 's a body in the window-seat !
ABBY: Yes , dear . We know .
MORTIMER: You know ?
MARTHA: Of course .
ABBY: Yes , but it has nothing to do with Teddy . Mortimer wants to speak , but Abby stops him .
MORTIMER: Forget ?
ABBY: We never dreamed you 'd peek .
MORTIMER: What the Who is he ?
MARTHA: Oh ! He 's a Methodist ? Is n't that nice .
MARTHA: He died .
ABBY: No , dear . He died first .
MORTIMER: Oh , well , now wait ! Stop all this . He takes Abby 's hands in his .
MORTIMER: But , how did the poison get in the wine ?
MORTIMER: You mean you You put it in the wine ?
MORTIMER: Ohh ! Look at me , darling . He takes again Abby 's hands in his .
MORTIMER: Ohh ! It 's first-degree .
ABBY: Well , we must do that , tomorrow or next day .
MARTHA: Yes , it is . They have so much fun .
MARTHA: Well , we 're going to celebrate , dear .
ABBY: Yes , dear . Mister Hoskins .
MARTHA: We told you to forget the whole thing .
MORTIMER: But , but Mister Hodgekiss
ABBY: Hoskins , dear .
MARTHA: We do n't intend to , dear .
MORTIMER: Look , here , Aunt Martha . You ca n't
MARTHA: The other gentlemen .
ABBY: Oh no , dear . This makes twelve .
MARTHA: It does ?
MORTIMER: Makes it twelve . Well
MORTIMER: Hello ?
MORTIMER: Never mind about that . Just sit down . Martha sits down .
ABBY: Mister Midgely . He was a Baptist .
ABBY: All his kith and kin were dead .
MARTHA: We felt so sorry for him .
MORTIMER: So ?
MORTIMER: Wait a minute ! He rushes to his aunts .
ABBY: Oh , no , dear . Of course not !
MORTIMER: Well , so , so
MARTHA: Mortimer .
MORTIMER: Wh what ?
MORTIMER: Mmmm ! Should have quite a kick .
MORTIMER: He did ? Well , was n't that nice of him ?
ELAINE: Hey , you !
MORTIMER: What are you doing here ?
ELAINE: Hey , how do I look ?
ELAINE: Tomorrow ? He pushes her toward the door .
MORTIMER: Huh ? Taxi ? Huh , huh , huh ? She is pulling him toward the door .
ELAINE: Yeah , come on !
MORTIMER: Oh , stop ! Do n't whistle in my ear , please .
ELAINE: Mortimer , what is wrong ? Look at your hair . He bends down for her to see his hair better .
ELAINE: But , darling , we were married today .
ELAINE: Rest ?
MORTIMER: Who ? Who ? Judge Cullman ?
MORTIMER: Anywhere , but do n't stand there ! He moves her away from the window-seat .
ELAINE: But , darling , Niagara Falls !
MORTIMER: If it does , we 'll let it !
ELAINE: Mortimer !
ELAINE: Mortimer !
ELAINE: How do you like that ? Gibbs shows his newspaper to Elaine
GIBBS: I read an ad here about a room to rent .
ELAINE: Oh ! Shut up !
ABBY: Doorbell 's ringing , dear .
GIBBS: I understand you 've got a room to rent .
ABBY: Yes Do step in . Abby opens the door wide for him to get in .
GIBBS: Well , are you the lady of the house ?
ABBY: Yes , I 'm Miss Brewster .
ABBY: And this is my sister . Another Miss Brewster . Gibbs takes off his hat .
GIBBS: My name 's Gibbs .
ABBY: Is Brooklyn your home ?
MARTHA: A are your family Brooklyn people ?
MORTIMER: Hello ? Hap
GIBBS: Have n't got any family .
MORTIMER: Well , operator
ABBY: All alone in the world ?
GIBBS: Yeah .
MORTIMER: No , no
ABBY: Well , Martha .
MORTIMER: No , Happy Dale Yes .
GIBBS: Is there always this much noise ?
MARTHA: Oh ! He does n't live with us .
MORTIMER: I can see the headlines now . Oh , please . Hello ? Back to the table .
ABBY: The room 's upstairs .
GIBBS: Never touch it .
GIBBS: Elderberry ?
MORTIMER: Oh
GIBBS: Thank you . Abby starts pouring the wine in the glass .
GIBBS: Have your own elderberry bushes ?
MARTHA: No , but the cemetery 's full of them . Gibbs raises his glass .
GIBBS: Well , skoal .
MARTHA: Mortimer ! Ah-ah ah-ah !
ABBY: Mortimer . Not that .
GIBBS: They they 're nuts !
CAB DRIVER: Hey , you 're telling me ! Gibbs runs away in the street .
MORTIMER: Look , you ca n't do things like that !
ABBY: Oh , piffle ! Both sisters are sulking .
WITHERSPOON: Another Roosevelt . Oh , dear , dear .
MARTHA: Well , we 'd have to know what it was first .
ABBY: Yes , dear .
ABBY: What do you want us to do ?
ABBY: But , what on earth could happen to us ?
MARTHA: But , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: What , darling , what ?
MORTIMER: Look , could n't that wait until I get back ?
ABBY: Oh , and you could join us in the hymns !
ABBY: Mortimer ! He was almost out , but he turns around .
MORTIMER: What ? Abby points to the hat , but ca n't talk .
ABBY: Uh-uh-uh-uh !
MORTIMER: Stop that  uh-uh-uh  . What is it ?
ABBY: Mr. Hoskins ' hat !
MORTIMER: Ohhhh !
CAB DRIVER: Do you still want me to wait here ?
MORTIMER: Yes ! Call me a cab !
CAB DRIVER: Yeah . Okay , okay !
MORTIMER: Do n't open it . I 'll sit with you !
MARTHA: Shame ! Such a nice hat .
ABBY: No . Oh , well .
MARTHA: Well , what were you saying about Mortimer ? Abby has lit the candles .
MARTHA: Why ?
MARTHA: Oh , yes . The poor dears .
ABBY: Oh , I 'll go , dear .
ABBY: Are you sure ?
MARTHA: Yes .
ABBY: Let me look .
MARTHA: You look . The two shadows knock again .
ABBY: No , they 're strangers to me .
JONATHAN: Come in , doctor .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , Johnny , it 's a good hideout .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: A fatted calf ? Oh , Johnny , I 'm so hungry . He comes closer to the table .
JONATHAN: As if we were expected .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes .
JONATHAN: A good omen .
ABBY: Who are you ? What are you doing here ?
JONATHAN: Aunt Abby . Aunt Martha . It 's Jonathan .
MARTHA: You , you get out of here !
MARTHA: Why , his voice is like Jonathan 's .
ABBY: Have , have you been in an accident ?
ABBY: Well , Jonathan , it 's been a long time . Jonathan sits down .
JONATHAN: Bless you . It 's good to be home again .
JONATHAN: Do n't waste any worry on that rat . Einstein stands up .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: But we got a hot stiff on our hands .
JONATHAN: Forget Mr. Spenalzo .
JONATHAN: Tonight .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , tonight , but I have to eat first .
JONATHAN: Be careful about the stitches this time .
JONATHAN: You were careless last time .
JONATHAN: Leave the eyes alone . Leave the nose alone . The scene dissolves to
JUDGE CULLMAN: Poor Teddy . I imagine it 's for the best .
MORTIMER: Yes . Goodbye . Good luck , Judge . Thank you . He walks to the door of the office .
JUDGE CULLMAN: Why , I I I Mortimer comes back to the Judge 's desk .
MORTIMER: Judge ! Tell me , are you a drinking man ?
JUDGE CULLMAN: Why , no . I never indulge .
MORTIMER: Good ! Then you 'll live longer . He goes back to the door .
JUDGE CULLMAN: Of course a little wine now
JUDGE CULLMAN: I may be committing the wrong Brewster . The scene dissolves to
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , it 's nice here .
TEDDY: I found it ! I found it ! He stops suddenly in the staircase .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: My , how I 've changed !
ABBY: No , Teddy . Not to Panama .
TEDDY: Nonsense ! It 's just down in the cellar .
JONATHAN: The cellar ?
TEDDY: General Goethals ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , sir .
TEDDY: I beg your pardon . Who are you ?
JONATHAN: I 'm Woodrow Wilson . Go to bed .
JONATHAN: General Goethals , inspect the canal . Einstein stands up and takes his helmet .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: All right , Mister President , we go to Panama .
TEDDY: Bully , bully ! Follow me , General .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Oh !
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Johnny , Johnny . Come here . Quick . He goes back down the stairs to the cellar .
JONATHAN: What ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , how do we get him in here ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Johnny
MARTHA: Abby ! What are we going to do ?
ABBY: No , Teddy , we must keep it a secret .
MARTHA: Yeah !
TEDDY: A state secret ?
ABBY: Yes , a state secret .
MARTHA: Promised ?
TEDDY: Where is the poor devil ?
ABBY: In the window-seat .
MARTHA: Abby . I 've never even seen Mister Hoskins !
JONATHAN: We 're bringing the luggage through here .
JONATHAN: It 's time I came home to take care of you .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: For the instruments , I 'll come back later .
ABBY: Good night . Einstein slightly bows to Abby .
JONATHAN: Now , we 'll all go to bed .
ABBY: I 'll be right up .
JONATHAN: Now , Aunt Abby ! Turn out the lights .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: He 's all right , Johnny .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: But he 's too heavy for me .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah .
JONATHAN: Be careful .
ELAINE: Mortimer ! Aunt Abby ! We see the frightened face of Einstein .
JONATHAN: Who are you ?
ELAINE: I 'm Elaine Harper . I live next door .
JONATHAN: What are you doing here ?
ELAINE: I came here to see my husband , Mortimer .
JONATHAN: Why did you say your name was Harper ?
JONATHAN: Doctor !
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: It 's all right , Johnny . It 's okay .
JONATHAN: We happen to live here .
ELAINE: Doctor Einstein ?
JONATHAN: I am Jonathan Brewster .
ELAINE: Oh ! You 're Jonathan .
JONATHAN: You 've heard of me ?
ELAINE: Yes , they talk about you .
JONATHAN: What do they say about me ? Elaine stops walking backward .
JONATHAN: You thought you saw someone drive up ?
JONATHAN: You saw someone at the car ?
ELAINE: Yes . Einstein starts walking behind Jonathan .
JONATHAN: What else did you see ?
ELAINE: Oh , just that , that 's all !
JONATHAN: I see . Is that why you came over here ?
JONATHAN: You 've given two names .
ELAINE: You 're hurting me !
JONATHAN: I think she 's dangerous .
ELAINE: Teddy ! Teddy , tell these men who I am ! Teddy stops a few steps from floor level .
TEDDY: Oh , that 's my daughter , Alice .
ELAINE: Oh , no , Teddy ! Teddy !
ELAINE: Teddy !
JONATHAN: Doctor , the cellar .
ELAINE: Let go of me ! Let go of me !
ABBY: We 'll call the police .
JONATHAN: I 'll handle this . Go back to your room . Abby stops at the top of the stairs .
ELAINE: Let go of me !
MORTIMER: Where 's Teddy ? Is he upstairs ?
ABBY: It 's your brother , Jonathan !
JONATHAN: I 've come back home , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: What ?
JONATHAN: I 've come back home , Mortimer .
ELAINE: Mortimer , he
MORTIMER: Wait a minute . Mortimer walks closer to Jonathan .
JONATHAN: I 'm glad you remember , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: What ?
MARTHA: Just for tonight .
ELAINE: Mortimer , what about me ?
MORTIMER: Nothing to He stops going upstairs
ELAINE: Mortimer ! Mortimer stands up and goes to Jonathan
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Johnny . Mister Spenalzo .
JONATHAN: What ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: What 's going to happen to Mister Spenalzo ?
MORTIMER: Wait ! Who 's this Mister Spenalzo ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: A friend of ours Johnny was looking for .
ELAINE: Mortimer !
MORTIMER: What 's the matter , darling ?
ELAINE: I almost got killed .
MORTIMER: Killed ? Aunt Abby , Aunt Martha !
ABBY: Oh , no !
MARTHA: Oh , no ! It was Jonathan !
ABBY: He mistook her for a sneak thief .
MORTIMER: Oh , that .
MORTIMER: I know , darling , I know .
ELAINE: Oh , Mortimer , I 'm afraid of him .
ELAINE: What ?
ELAINE: Mortimer ? But but
MORTIMER: No , no , please .
MORTIMER: Yes , 2-7-0 .
MORTIMER: Please ! This is important !
ELAINE: That ?
WITHERSPOON: Yes , Mr. Brewster , yes .
MORTIMER: Look , look , I He raises his head to look at Elaine
ELAINE: He was going to kill me !
MORTIMER: Wait a minute , I ca n't hear the man .
ELAINE: Mortimer !
MORTIMER: Thank you , darling . Thank you .
ABBY: We 're busy .
MORTIMER: No , you come in here now !
ABBY: Yes , dear , what is it ? Where 's Elaine ?
ABBY: Jonathan just walked in .
MORTIMER: I do n't mean Jonathan !
ABBY: And Doctor
ABBY: We told you . Mister Hoskins .
MORTIMER: He is not Mister Hoskins !
ABBY: Who can that be ?
ABBY: Yes , I did .
ABBY: Oh , no .
MORTIMER: By the way , where is Mister Hoskins ? Mortimer starts looking around the room .
ABBY: He must have gone to Panama .
MORTIMER: What ? You buried him ?
MORTIMER:  A fib ! 
JONATHAN: I 've led a strange life , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: No . No , no , Aunt Abby , do n't
MARTHA: Spenalzo ?
ABBY: I knew he was a foreigner .
JONATHAN: Put down that telephone , Mortimer .
ABBY: Oh
O'HARA: Hello !
ABBY: Oh , Officer O'Hara !
ABBY: No He looks around .
MORTIMER: No ! Come in .
ABBY: Yes , do come in . She closes the door behind him .
O'HARA: Oh , pleased to meet you .
MORTIMER: And glad to see you , fellow .
ABBY: And this is another nephew , Jonathan .
JONATHAN: I do n't think so .
O'HARA: I 'll be running along .
MORTIMER: Yes , why ?
O'HARA: Oh , what a break for me ! I 'm a playwright .
MORTIMER: No ?
O'HARA: I 'm working on a play now .
MORTIMER: You are ?
O'HARA: Yeah .
O'HARA: All right .
MORTIMER: You can tell me all about it .
O'HARA: And where else would you eat ?
MORTIMER: See you in a moment . He crosses the room toward Jonathan
JONATHAN: Mortimer
O'HARA: Mister Brewster , my play takes place in Mortimer moves him back to the kitchen .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: No , no , Johnny . No , please .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: No , Johnny , please , take it easy . Please !
JONATHAN: Doctor , you know when I make up my mind
MORTIMER: Oh , I do n't know . O'Hara picks up a cup on the table .
O'HARA: No . My mother was an actress .
MORTIMER: Oh ? Legitimate ?
O'HARA: Of course she was . She was my mother .
MORTIMER: Oh , excuse me .
O'HARA: Peaches La Tour was her name .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Johnny , Johnny , come quick !
JONATHAN: What 's the matter ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: You know that hole in the cellar ?
JONATHAN: Yes .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Well , we got an ace in the hole .
MORTIMER: Well , you have ?
O'HARA: Yeah .
O'HARA: Oh , swell .
MORTIMER: I like the first act .
MORTIMER: No , I thought I told you
JONATHAN: Yes , Mortimer .
JONATHAN: We 're not going .
MORTIMER: You 're not going ?
JONATHAN: No .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: No .
O'HARA: Coming .
MORTIMER: Cellar ?
MORTIMER: What were you doing down the cellar ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: But what is he doing in the cellar ?
JONATHAN: Now what are you going to tell O'Hara ? O'Hara comes into the room from the kitchen .
O'HARA: Huh ? Hey , lowbrows , huh ?
MORTIMER: Kelly 's ?
O'HARA: Yeah .
O'HARA: Fine .
MORTIMER: Fine .
JONATHAN: Why do n't you both go down in the cellar ?
O'HARA: That 's all right with me .
O'HARA: Okay .
MORTIMER: We 'll meet late
O'HARA: This opening will kill you . He opens the door and starts going out .
MORTIMER: You will .
MORTIMER: Oh , the doctor !
O'HARA: Yeah !
MORTIMER: No .
MORTIMER: Ca n't wait ! Ca n't wait ! Mortimer closes the door .
JONATHAN: Where are you going ?
MORTIMER: To the Doctor . Where do you Oh !
JONATHAN: We 'll wait for him .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Did he look guilty ! The two sisters come out of the kitchen .
ABBY: A friend of Mortimer 's ?
MARTHA: Oh ! He must mean Mister Hoskins .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Mister Hoskins ?
JONATHAN: You know about what 's down there ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Your gentlemen ?
JONATHAN: But Mister Hoskins ?
MARTHA: Mister Hoskins is no stranger .
JONATHAN: Crowded ? With what ?
ABBY: There are twelve graves down there now .
JONATHAN: Twelve graves .
MARTHA: Why , what we 've been doing is a mercy .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: That 's wonderful , Johnny ! He stands up .
JONATHAN: What ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah . You got twelve , they got twelve . Jonathan grabs Einstein by his shirt .
JONATHAN: I 've got thirteen .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: No , Johnny , twelve . Do n't brag .
JONATHAN: Thirteen . They both starts counting on their fingers .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Phoenix ?
JONATHAN: The filling station .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Filling st Oh , yes .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: This is most irregular , most irregular .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: Who ?
MORTIMER: What ? What ? Did I say Oh , I
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: Here ?
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: In the cemetery ?
MORTIMER: Yeah , that 'll be good .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: It 's Halloween .
CAB DRIVER: Hey , 22.50 !
MORTIMER: What ?
CAB DRIVER: 22.50 !
MORTIMER: Oh , yes , looks good on you !
TEDDY: Did you give him a twenty-one-gun salute ?
MORTIMER: Yes , with a Maxim silencer . The driver catches up with them .
CAB DRIVER: Hey , you . Five more bucks and you 'll own it .
MORTIMER: Oh no , thanks . It would n't fit me .
TEDDY: Doctor Livingstone !
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: Livingstone ?
MORTIMER: Well , that 's what he presumes .
TEDDY: Certainly . Welcome to Washington , doctor .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: Yes , indeed .
ELAINE: Do you or do you not love me ?
ELAINE: Do you ? Mortimer takes her in his arms .
MORTIMER: Yes , darling .
MORTIMER: Oh , Elaine . He moves slightly away from her .
ELAINE: Have you suddenly gone crazy ?
ELAINE: What are you talking about ?
ELAINE: Darling , that 's ancient history .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: That 's what you think .
TEDDY: Of course , if the country insists
MORTIMER: Yeah .
MORTIMER: No , no . I Ohhh !
MORTIMER: Go away .
DOCTOR GILCHRIST: I 'll enjoy committing him to any place .
MORTIMER: You will ?
MORTIMER: Ah , you see ? Did n't I tell you ?
JONATHAN: Aunt Abby , go to bed !
MORTIMER: Hello .
ABBY: Mortimer , where have you been ? Mortimer starts running upstairs .
ABBY: Martha and I are going for the police .
MORTIMER: Police ! He quickly get back downstairs
MARTHA: Oh , no ? You know what Jonathan 's doing ?
MORTIMER: Oh , darling , let him .
JONATHAN: You 're forgetting , Doctor .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: What ?
ABBY: Then you get the wedding silver .
JONATHAN: My brother , Mortimer .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah , I know that look .
MORTIMER: No , no , no . Do n't do that , Mister President .
MORTIMER: This must be secret . Teddy takes the papers and looks at them .
TEDDY: A secret proclamation ? How unusual .
TEDDY: Who 's the other fellow ?
MORTIMER: That 's the secret .
MORTIMER: Of course , Mister President .
TEDDY: I 'll have to put on my signing clothes .
TEDDY: So I have . Wait here .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Mister Brewster .
MORTIMER: Yes , what is it ? Mice ?
MORTIMER: Ca n't you see I 'm busy ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Get out of here , will you , please ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Johnny 's in a bad mood . You get out of here !
MORTIMER: Stop underplaying . I ca n't hear you .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Please listen to me . Get out .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , Heidelberg , 1919 . You go
MORTIMER: Tch-tch-tch ! Stop it , Doctor , now stop it !
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Oh no ! My schnapps !
MORTIMER: I could use that . I could use that .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: That 's mine .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: How can somebody be so stupid ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Well , I do n't know .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Oh , what ?
MORTIMER: The curtain cord .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Curtain cord ? But did n't he see him get it ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: But what does he do ?
JONATHAN: Doctor , this must be an artistic achievement .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Please .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Johnny , please !
JONATHAN: Doctor !
JONATHAN: Pull yourself together , Doctor .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Prosit !
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Not Teddy ! Not Teddy ! Please !
JONATHAN: We 'll get to him later .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Not Teddy , we wo n't get to him at all !
JONATHAN: Now , we have to work fast . The quick way .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah , probably your play put him to sleep .
O'HARA: What ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: I personally , I like it very much .
O'HARA: It 's probably over his head , huh ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yeah . O'Hara looks at Jonathan 's face .
O'HARA: Where have I seen that face before ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: No , please .
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Hey , Johnny , the cops !
BROPHY: What the Sam Hill 's going on here ?
O'HARA: Yeah , I heard him .
O'HARA: Hey ! It was n't that bad , was it ?
O'HARA: Oh , wait a minute , Mr. Brewster .
JONATHAN: I 'll show them to you .
JONATHAN: You come down to the cellar .
O'HARA: Now , wait a minute .
O'HARA: Oh , yeah !
BROPHY: Go down to the cellar with him , O'Hara .
JONATHAN: Yes , come to the cellar .
O'HARA: Well , look , do I have to ?
BROPHY: O'Hara , go on down the cellar with him !
BROPHY: Go on down to the cellar with him .
BROPHY: Look out , Pat ! Look out , Pat !
SAUNDERS: He 's got a gun
BROPHY: I got him , Pat . Look out !
MORTIMER: Fight . Go on and fight .
BROPHY: Pat ! Pat , look out !
MORTIMER: Yeah . A little higher , please , brother .
BROPHY: Get him , Pat .
MORTIMER: Come on , doc
BROPHY: Come in .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What has occurred ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What happened ? He put up a fight ?
O'HARA: All I said was he looked like Boris Karloff .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Boris ? Turn him over .
BROPHY: Kind of think he 's wanted somewhere .
MORTIMER: That 's my brother !
MORTIMER: Thanks , pal .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Yeah ?
O'HARA: Yeah .
O'HARA: Yeah ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: You 're suspended . Now go on . Report in .
TEDDY: What is the meaning of this commotion ?
TEDDY: Here . He joins the group of policemen .
TEDDY: But there are thirteen bodies in the cellar !
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Who are you ?
TEDDY: I 'm President Roosevelt .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What the blazes is this ?
BROPHY: He 's the guy that blows the bugle .
SAUNDERS: Howdy , Colonel .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Well , Colonel , you 've blown your last bugle . Come on , get this guy out of here .
TEDDY: Dear me ! Another yellow-fever victim ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Hey , you , keep out of that .
MORTIMER: Huh-huh-huh !
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Who are you ? What 's your name ?
MORTIMER: I know just how you feel .
MORTIMER: What 's the matter ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: These papers are no good .
MORTIMER: Why not ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: He signed it Theodore Roosevelt ! Rooney shows the papers to Mortimer .
MORTIMER: He what ?
WITHERSPOON: Is your cab engaged ?
CAB DRIVER: I knew this would end up in a nuthouse ! Witherspoon comes back a few steps .
WITHERSPOON: We like to think of it as a rest home .
TEDDY: No , it 's chicanery .
MORTIMER: Oh , wasting the time . Saunders approaches his lieutenant .
SAUNDERS: He 's come to . He 's ready to talk .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Hold him till I get there .
SAUNDERS: Yes , sir . He moves away back to the kitchen .
TEDDY: Code for Roosevelt ?
TEDDY: Rooster .
MORTIMER: And what does a rooster do ?
TEDDY: Crows .
TEDDY: On the veldt !
MORTIMER: There you are !  Crowsveldt  . Mortimer gives a quick look at Rooney .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Hey , that 's all right ! Do that again for me .
TEDDY: Never mind ! Give me that pen . This is fun .
MORTIMER: Now , now , all I got to get is Witherspoon .
WITHERSPOON: Best of care of him , Mister Brewster .
MORTIMER: Oh , that 's fine . And no wagon when he leaves .
WITHERSPOON: He 'll be very happy at Happy Dale .
MORTIMER: Oh , that 's good .
WITHERSPOON: You never can tell .
MORTIMER: Oh , the woods are full of them .
MORTIMER: Oh ! A pamphlet about Happy Dale ?
MORTIMER: Captain ! Captain ! Captain !
MORTIMER: Captain , this is Mister Witherspoon . Witherspoon looks at Rooney with a smile .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What is this ?
WITHERSPOON: The police ? Oh !
TEDDY: I 'll be in my office vetoing some bills .
TEDDY: Is this March the four ?
MORTIMER: Practically .
MORTIMER: Who , Mister President ?
TEDDY: Taft !
WITHERSPOON: Happy man .
MORTIMER: It 's all right , Aunt Abby , I 've got it .
MARTHA: You 've come to meet Teddy , have n't you ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: I 'm sorry .
ABBY: Well , if he 's going , we 're going , too !
MARTHA: Yes , you 'll have to take us with him . Mortimer smiles broadly .
MORTIMER: Why-why why not ? Why not , indeed ?
WITHERSPOON: Oh , no-no-no-no
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Now , let 's be sensible , ladies
ABBY: Our cellar ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Yeah . Mortimer seems a bit worried .
MORTIMER: Oh-oh !
ABBY: But there are thirteen bodies in our cellar .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What ?
ABBY: Yes . You just ask our nephew , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: Charge !
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What is this ?
MARTHA: You must n't mind Mortimer . Saunders comes to his lieutenant .
SAUNDERS: How about it , lieutenant ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: I 'll be right there . He moves away .
MARTHA: He 's been a little strange all day .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Flowers ?
MORTIMER: Sure , I put neon lights on mine . He whispers to Rooney from the staircase .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What ?
ABBY: There 's one down there , a Mister Spenalzo
MORTIMER: Has n't got it yet . He resumes his walking downstairs .
MARTHA: But the other twelve are our gentlemen .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Your gentlemen ?
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Yeah , yeah .
MORTIMER: He got it . It 's amazing .
WITHERSPOON: Just the ladies ?
MORTIMER: Just the ladies , not me !
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: How about it , Super ?
WITHERSPOON: Well , of course , they 'd have to be committed .
WITHERSPOON: I have them , ladies , I have them right here .
WITHERSPOON: Ladies , if you will sign right here .
ABBY: Right here ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Good night .
MORTIMER: Come here , Doctor Einstein .
WITHERSPOON: A doctor ?
ABBY: Were you leaving , Doctor ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: Yes , please .
MARTHA: Oh ! Are n't you going to wait for Jonathan ?
DOCTOR EINSTEIN: I do n't think we go to the same place .
ABBY: But Dr. Einstein !
WITHERSPOON: Now , Mister Witherspoon
WITHERSPOON: It 's contagious , yes . It 's your turn .
MORTIMER: Now , do n't play games
WITHERSPOON: You sign . You sign as next of kin .
TEDDY: Mr. Witherport .
WITHERSPOON: Spoon .
MORTIMER: Oh , here it is .
TEDDY: Come up and pack my duffel .
WITHERSPOON: Duffel ?
WITHERSPOON: Oh !
TEDDY: And bring along my bugle .
MORTIMER: President .
MORTIMER: Oh , now , darling , do n't be worried . He kisses Abby .
MARTHA: Me too , Mortimer .
MORTIMER: Well , of course , darling . He kisses Martha .
MORTIMER: Well , what would go wrong ?
MORTIMER: Oh , no , they wo n't look up Dr. Einstein
MARTHA: But it 's not his signature , dear . It 's yours .
MORTIMER: Mine ?
ABBY: You see , you signed as next of kin .
MORTIMER: Oh , what 's wrong about that , darling ?
ABBY: Well Martha , you tell him now .
MARTHA: Well , dear .
MORTIMER: What , dear ?
MARTHA: You 're not really a Brewster .
MORTIMER: Huh ? What ? What ?
MARTHA: Oh , darling ! Do n't feel so badly about it .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What 's all this screaming about ?
ELAINE: But I saw them
MORTIMER: It 's way past her bedtime .
ELAINE: But , Mortimer
MORTIMER: Goodbye !
ABBY: Bye .
MARTHA: Goodbye , darling !
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: What is all this ?
ABBY: They 're going on their honeymoon .
LIEUTENANT ROONEY: Well , they 're off to a flying start .
CAB DRIVER: Hey !
MORTIMER: What ?
ELAINE: I really did see
CAB DRIVER: Hey ! You 'll own two cabs !
MORTIMER: Huh ?
CAB DRIVER: I mean the meter !
ELAINE: Oh , Mortimer .
CAB DRIVER: Oh , Mortimer . Mortimer turns to him .
CAB DRIVER: Yes , love .
CAB DRIVER: I 'm not a cabdriver . I 'm a coffeepot !
ROOKIE COP: Cooool .
ARTHUR: Evening , Constable !
BEAT: It 's a joke ! Okay , okay .
ARTHUR: Well . What with having spunked 1.6 million fat Alberts on this little unaround , I thought why not take it a step further and try to actually collar a few ne-er do wells ? It worked for the illionaire Bruce Wayne , why not the future billionaire Arthur Bach- Templemead ? Will I have to do traffic school ?
HOMELESS ROBIN: Where 's my five thousand dollars ? Arthur counts out a huge wad of cash .
ARTHUR: The Boy Homeless here neglected to say he 'd never driven .
MORE: 3 .
HOMELESS ROBIN: It 's LIZARDS ! English prick ! Arthur hands another wad of cash to Cop 1 .
ARTHUR: I trust this will cover all repairs to New York and any inconvenience to your good selves ? He turns and tries to get back in .
JAY: Then the crazy motherfucker cut me !
ARTHUR: Goodness . Why ?
JAY: Said I cut the bombita with pig killer !
ARTHUR: Rude man . And who threw hot Americano in whose face again ?
JAY: I did in his . No half and half neither . That shit burnt !
GARY: I burnt my sister 's hair .
JAY: Cool
GARY: Ho wanted to evict me , just 'cause I do n't fit her definition of hygiene . Plenty of places to take a shit , toilet 's just one of them . Just ask the a-rabs .
ARTHUR: It 's like a chat show , this . ( looking into an imaginary
CAMERA: It 's been said of my next guest , by Jay the bandaged lunatic , that she 's ` a sick-ass , whacked-out , whacked-up asswipe ' . Carmella , when did you first dream of becoming a crack whore ?
PROSTITUTE: Mother died when I was six .
ARTHUR: Oh G-d , I hate when that happens .
PROSTITUTE: My father raped me when I was twelve .
ARTHUR: Sounds like you had six relatively good years .
JAY: What do you do ?
ARTHUR: I model riding boots , I spend money , I sleep with women . But I have weekends off and I am my own oss . The cell door swings open .
DEVERE: I do n't think your mother will be pleased , Arthur .
ARTHUR: Really , Elverton - if a chap ca n't help out a few chums , whateve their station in life .
JAY: Do n't point that shit at me , bitch ! I will FUCK YOU UP !
HOMELESS ROBIN: Yes ! Yes ! Kill the lizards ! Arthur pushes past the press .
PRESS: Arthur ! What will your mother say ? Did n't she send you here to get you out of the British papers ? Arthur !
ARTHUR: Anyone need a job ? My last drive esigned after I filled his limo with squirrels . Preferably sober , clean driving licence ?
ARTHUR: Stand back !
CARMELLA: Oh , man . Nobody tell you about the ecession ?
ARTHUR: The what ?
FIRST MAN: Um . $ 800 please .
ARTHUR: Coming right up . Fries with that ?
ERICA: Arthur ?
ARTHUR: Erica ? Fancy meeting you here ! ErEverybody , this is Erica - the very best friend forever of my girlfriend Susan . And Erica 's parents Ernest and Margaret . Are you familiar with the expression ` I ca n't explain anything ' ?
ERICA: Who are the women with you , Arthur ?
ARTHUR: Oh , um , this is Sofia . I believe she works for Avis . Checks the cars for dings , dead people in the trunk , that sort of thing . And this is Carmella . Anyway
ERICA'S FATHER: What do you do , Carmella ?
CARMELLA: Whatever you want . But no penetration without a rubber . It 's all gone a bit tense .
ARTHUR: Carmella 's joking . She 's actually aqueen . Of a very small country .
ERICA'S FATHER: Is she now ?
ARTHUR: It 's terribly small .
ERICA'S FATHER: I see .
ARTHUR: Rhode Island could beat the crap out of it in a war .
ERICA'S FATHER: Yes , it 's a small place .
ARTHUR: 85 cents in a cab from one end of the country to the other . I 'm talking small .
ERICA'S FATHER: I think I understand how small it is .
ARTHUR: Just had the entire country carpeted , this is not a big place .
ERICA'S FATHER: You need to grow up , Arthur .
ARTHUR: That 's easy for you to say , you have n't got 50 pairs of short trousers hanging in your closet . Maybe we should go somewhere else .
ERICA: Maybe you should .
ARTHUR: Could I have all those lobsters to go , please ?
PANTING: More British !
ARTHUR: Cup of tea ? Nice hot cup of hot Rosy Lee right up your fanny ?
HOBSON: Morning , Arthur .
ARTHUR: UmmCelebration of Kwanzaa .
HOBSON: The African heritage festival celebrated five months from now ? She replies ` I was drunk . Piss off . '
ARTHUR: Why are you stopping ? Oh , sorry . How impolite of me . Sofia , this is Hobson , my nanny .
SOFIA: Nanny ?
HOBSON: He 's merely shaped like an adult .
SOFIA: Is she going to stay here ?
ARTHUR: Hobson , could you come back in a minute and a half please ?
HOBSON: Negative . You 're seeing your mothe this morning .
ARTHUR: Nobody told me .
HOBSON: Actually I did , on the other side of the vast moat of champagne known as ` last night ' .
ARTHUR: Hobson ! Really
HOBSON: I had to dab Tabasco sauce on the nipples to see him off
SOFIA: I ca n't do this .
HOBSON: I support your decision 100 % . Will you be requiring a taxi , or just be getting in a random passing car ?
ARTHUR: Cancel my mother please , Hobson . I 'll work from bed today .
HOBSON: Are n't you a fan of Carcass ?
ARTHUR: OKAY , OKAY , I 'LL GET UP !
HOBSON: Good boy .
ARTHUR: I 'm going for a shower .
HOBSON: I 'll alert the media .
ARTHUR: To Bombay , a travelling circus came
HOBSON: They brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was he nameHobson !
ARTHUR: Female Tom Hanks !
HOBSON: She 's early today
ARTHUR: Can we invite her up and dress he as Forrest Gump ?
HOBSON: No .
ARTHUR: Just for a laugh ! We 'll pay her .
HOBSON: Do your armpits .
MORE: 15 .
READS SCREEN: ` Authentic 1981 ` Funshine ' Care Bear ' ? For $ 11,000 plus shipping costs ? Sorry , but that transaction will take place over my dead body , and I 'm feeling rather well today .
HOBSON: That reminds me , clean you genitals . Heaven knows what wildlife that girl was harbouring etween her thighs .
ARTHUR: I give you ` Sideways farting spider ' .
HOBSON: Arthur , you have to stop giving money away !
ARTHUR: I 'm a philanthropist .
HOBSON: With the emphasis on the ` pissed ' . Really , what is it about unearned wealth that brings out such idiocy in those who have it and those who want it ? The way you 're going , you 'll have spent your inheritance efore you 've inherited it .
ARTHUR: ` Eagle pointing at lesbian . '
HOBSON: Why did you fire Jessica ?
ARTHUR: What kind of yoga teacher wo n't let a pupil invent positions ? She was a Nazi with a pan pipe C.D .
CHANGING POSE: ` Upwards Pooping Astronaut ' .
HOBSON: Interesting . It looks more like ` Rich twit hiding from mother . ' May I remind you , she finances you preposterous existence
ARTHUR: I know , I know . Never bite the hand that fists me .
MARTY: Sorry , fellas .
HOBSON: You do n't seriously intend to keep employing this gentleman ?
ARTHUR: Give the guy a chance , Hobson . He got laid off in Chicago
HOBSON: But he does n't know his way around New York !
ARTHUR: So ? I want interesting , fun people around me , not drones who just get the job done Arthur sees something out of the window .
NAOMI: and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s , this magnificent structure was the world 's tallest uilding for 11 months before the Empire State stole its thunder .
ARTHUR: Can I join your tour please ?
NAOMI: Sure . It 's $ 15 , plus $ 5 for the free authentic street pretzel . Sorry , my bosses make the prices .
BEAT: Ah , owe me it . I start on that corner every day on the hour
CABBIE: ! NO ME HINCHAN LAS PELOTAS ! 19 .
ARTHUR: Wow . What did you say ?
NAOMI: Just generalised criticism of his parents and genitals . Everyone make it over alive ? Excellent . Next we enter Times Square , world famous for New Year 's Eve , when a Waterford Crystal Ball descends at eye-poppingly slow speed for the inexplicable entertainment of a million drunk fools . Many people think the square is actually a square , despite latant evidence otherwise .
TO ARTHUR: Sir ? What shape is Times Square ?
ARTHUR: A circle ?
NAOMI: See ? Morons . More tourists laugh this time . Some
ARTHUR: Are you abusing this tour to do your errands ?
NAOMI: Are you abusing the tour to stalk me ?
ARTHUR: Absolutely . Arthur stares at the big tumble dryers .
HOBSON: Where the blazes is that boy ? Arthur !
NAOMI: Ahead , the jewel in Manhattan 's crown , the Empire State Building . This iconic symbol of American corporate might was adapted during World War 2 in case of attack from enemy forces . At three minutes ' notice the entire structure can etract into the ground like a tortoise 's head .
TOURIST: That 's not possible . I should know , I 'm a civil engineer .
NAOMI: You 're not being very civil to me . Some tourists laugh .
ARTHUR: The building does n't retract ; the ground rises up .
NAOMI: Exactly . The ground rises up ! Thank you , sir .
ARTHUR: They were going to install giant legs so if a plane was flying at the tower it could run away . But where 's it going to run ?
NAOMI: Manhattan 's in the way .
ARTHUR: It 'd have to jump in the Hudson .
NAOMI: Victory to the Nazis . Is that what you want ? The group approaches a pretzel stand .
ARTHUR: If you go on Perez Hilton or TMZ .
NAOMI: What are they ?
ARTHUR: The gossip websites .
NAOMI: That the internet ? Ah , my computer 's too old for all that .
ARTHUR: For the internet ? Seriously ?
NAOMI: Life 's too short for all this obsessive upgrading .
ARTHUR: You consider the internet an upgrade ? Wow .
NAOMI: So why do people gossip about you ?
ARTHUR: Ah , that was a joke . I 'm nobody . Arthur feels a tap on his shoulder . Hobson .
HOBSON: You 're late for your mother !
NAOMI: Sorry , this pretzel stand is a watering hole for the crazies . ( raises her voice to
HOBSON: The soup kitchen 's just up and to the left , honey .
ARTHUR: Hobson , this is Naomi .
NAOMI: She 's with you ?
HOBSON: Delighted to meet you , Naomi . Normally one has to go to a bowling alley to meet a woman of you stature .
NAOMI: Ooh , Grandma 's got jokes .
HOBSON: You are n't the first woman who walks the streets this young man has asked .
NAOMI: Who 's this ? Joan Rivers ' olde itterer sister ?
ARTHUR: My nanny .
NAOMI: Obviously . Seriously , who is she ?
ARTHUR: My nanny . Well , she started as that , but these days she 's more of an all-round enforcer and odyguard .
NAOMI: Sorry , I have to get out the cattle prod and haul ass . Got another tou starting in eight minutes .
ARTHUR: Can I call you ? Naomi starts to walk away .
NAOMI: I do n't give my number to grown men with nannies . But as you may not be a grown man , it 's 917 476 2030 . Manhattan swallows the lovely stranger .
ARTHUR: But what if this is the one ?
HOBSON: This is just like the Komodo dragon . Everyone else is happy to see one in the zoo and leave it there . You had to own one . Thank goodness that handbag manufacture was prepared to take the poo lizard away .
ARTHUR: You said he 's in London Zoo !
HOBSON: He is , Arthur . Are you the only one allowed to joke now ?
ARTHUR: I do n't like it here .
HOBSON: Of course you do n't . People work here .
GRANT: Good afternoon , Mr Bach-Templemead .
ARTHUR: Hi Grant . Tell me - which of you parents are you most like ? Abercrombie or Fitch ?
GRANT: I have no connection with that store . My family name is Von Krausehoff . Take a seat please .
HOBSON: Do n't fret , Arthur . This wo n't take long . Then we 'll have ice cream .
ARTHUR: Vivienne .
VIVIENNE: You know I prefer ` mother ' .
ARTHUR: I 'm sorry . You look more like a Vivienne .
VIVIENNE: So . How are you , Arthur ?
ARTHUR: Quite busy . I have a riding boot shoot for Petrie Dressage
VIVIENNE: Did I hear you say you were meeting Ivanka Trump for brunch ? That 's nice . Right . Today we 're going to have a friendly chat . Then a serious talk . And lastly make a timetable . How does all that sound ?
ARTHUR: Amazing . Do you have any vodka ?
VIVIENNE: What happened , Arthur ? You were such a sweet baby .
ARTHUR: I still wake up in my own poo occasionally .
VIVIENNE: Right , that 's it for the chat . Time to transition to our talk .
ARTHUR: Ca n't Hobson set them aside for me ?
VIVIENNE: Susan is a splendid girl . Her feet are on the ground , she 's of fine stock
ARTHUR: Oh . That 's what this is all about . I 'm not marrying Susan . I do n't love her .
VIVIENNE: And ? You think I spent my marriage to your father skipping through meadows ?
ARTHUR: Not after you ran him over in the Bentley , no . Susan 's boring . She 's not funny .
VIVIENNE: Ditto your father . The aristocracy does n't marry for ` fun ' , Arthur . It 's about stability . Continuity
ARTHUR: and sinking your fangs into Susan 's father 's bank account .
VIVIENNE: The Johnson family 's considerable equity in a stormy financial period is merely a side issue . Burt is a pillar of the community .
ARTHUR: His baby formula was taken off the market in six African countries !
VIVIENNE: A completely innocent error in places where there 's precious little for children to live fo anyway . The families all got gift askets as compensation . That little bump in the road aside , Burt is a devout Christian .
ARTHUR: Yes , because they 're never insane . And where did he get Jesus ?
GETTING EXASPERATED: Burt paid his debt to society years ago .
ARTHUR: He strangled a fireman ! Who strangles a fireman ?
VIVIENNE: Arthur
ARTHUR: I 'm sorry , Vivienne . I 've met someone else very lovely who , as far as I know , is n't related to anyone who would kill an unsung hero in cold blood .
VIVIENNE: Un-meet her . Arthur , you 're the end of our line . We need an heir .
ARTHUR: I nearly gave you an heir !
VIVIENNE: Oh , give me strength ! A Bach- Templemead having a child by a lap dancer called ` Mystery ' ?
ARTHUR: That was just her stage name ! To give her more mystery when shewaved her fanny around . He eal name waswhat was it again ?
VIVIENNE: Susan is 33 this year . Her egg inventory has dropped by 23 % since you met her . You risk having no sons , or worse , some pea-brained hunchback who hugs everyone !
ARTHUR: Great ! I like hugs ! And some of them are really good at math . You know the ` Frog and Toad ' books ?
VIVIENNE: No .
ARTHUR: Of course you do n't . Hobson read them to me while you were off iding horses over stripey poles . They 're about fun and friendship , not how many unspasticated tadpoles I can squirt up a rich girl .
VIVIENNE: Your father would turn in his grave to hear this nonsense
ARTHUR: That I wo n't follow in his footsteps and marry a woman I hate ? I think he might climb out of the grave and dance on it .
VIVIENNE: Suit yourself .
ARTHUR: You would n't ! You 're my
VIVIENNE: Vivienne ? Try me .
HOBSON: Ah . The ring your father gave you mother , I recall .
ARTHUR: Did he knock her out with it , then drive her to the church in the trunk of his Bentley ?
HOBSON: No . Your father was a gentleman .
ARTHUR: What 's gentlemanly about dying efore I knew him ? That 's just ude . Did he ever love my mother ?
HOBSON: They had their days .
ARTHUR: Ah well . At least he does n't have to wake up every day to a woman with a face like saran wrap stretched over a gargoyle . Arthur stares at the ring again .
HOBSON: Arthur . I say this with love
ARTHUR: Uh-oh
HOBSON: Even by modern male standards you 're a breathtakingly immature little shit . Coupled with the kind of money you have access to , that 's deadly . Susan may not have a fou hour stand up routine about the Flatiron Building , but she 's a solid girl who will look after you .
ARTHUR: I have you for that .
HOBSON: Not forever .
ARTHUR: Yes forever . You 're Hobson .
NAOMI: Hello ?
SILENCE: Hello ?
MOCK SINISTER: This is your English stalker .
NAOMI: Oh , hi ! What 's up ?
ARTHUR: I 'm sorry , I 've never really understood that question . Are you free tomorrow night ?
NAOMI: Sorry , I 'm polishing my yacht .
ARTHUR: Is that a euphemism for something naughty ?
NAOMI: No , it 's a lie . I have a creative writing class . Tonight ?
ARTHUR: I have a contractual commitment . Friday ?
NAOMI: You got it .
ARTHUR: Paper .
NAOMI: Sorry ?
ARTHUR: Sorry , I was talking to something else . So . What do you want to do ?
NAOMI: A movie ?
ARTHUR: Movie ? Come on , you 've got to try harder than that .
NAOMI: Pizza .
ARTHUR: What have you always wanted to do ?
NAOMI: It 's a first date , Arthur . Not ou honeymoon .
ARTHUR: Every date will be our honeymoon .
NAOMI: Ewww . Okay , uh , picnic in the parkor dinner with a view . I like views .
ARTHUR: What sort of food do you like ?
NAOMI: Anything but guts and mushrooms . Okay , enough questions .
ARTHUR: Oh come on . This all helps build up a profile of you before I trick you into my basement . I 'd hate to not have your favourite snacks ready .
NAOMI: Turkey Jerky and Pez . Are we done ? Just that I .
HOBSON: Time to get engaged , Arthur . The Komodo dragon can wait .
ARTHUR: Hi ! Is it June 19th at 7 pm ?
BUTLER: No , sir . It 's 8.34 .
ARTHUR: FUCK ! We overshot ! Time travel can e a real cunt sometimes , do n't you think ? I 'll be right back . See you in an hour and a half ago The butler does n't laugh .
BUTLER: Would you care for anything while you wait ?
ARTHUR: A trampoline and a selection of woodland creatures if that 's not too much trouble .
TO JESUS: Shhhhh
BURT: Arthur !
ARTHUR: I , er , had a bit of food stuck in my teeth and could n't find a toothpick .
BURT: Heck , this sword went through three crusades . Beheaded 1000 moslems . Nothing you can do to harm it .
ARTHUR: You do n't , um , have anything stronger , do you ?
BURT: Sparkling .
ARTHUR: Surely a glass of sherry at Christmas ? Burt clinks glasses with him .
BURT: Peace be with you .
ARTHUR: And also with me .
BURT: Arthur . Can I be honest with you ?
ARTHUR: You 're the real Slim Shady ? I knew it !
BURT: My faith teaches me to hate the sin , not the sinner . But with you , I struggle with that belief . Burt turns away to get a glass of water .
ARTHUR: You could switch to Judaism . Bit warm in here . Do you mind if I put the fan on ?
BURT: Anyway , Arthur . However I feel about you , my daughter loves you .
ARTHUR: Yes , it 's a problem , is n't it ?
BEAT: Joke , sorry . Ah . We 'll say I 'm gay ! I did once dabble actually , so I can tell a plausible story .
BURT: You made love to a guy ?
ARTHUR: One Moslem does n't make a mosque , Burt .
BURT: You made love to a Moslem ?
ARTHUR: No , sir , it was Prince Alois of Lichtenstein and he made love to me . The fact that it took three ottles of poppers and a Jacuzzi full of Krug to loosen me up confirmed my heterosexuality .
BURT: ` If there is a man who lies with a male , they shall surely be put to death . '
ARTHUR: Crikey . Could n't there just be some kind of on-the-spot fine ? Burt really hammers the table this time .
BURT: You will stop this talk and marry - my - fucking
ARTHUR: Oh bollocks .
SUSAN: Sorry to make you wait , Arthur . I was talking to your mother . I hea you have something to ask me !
ARTHUR: Shall we go ?
SUSAN: He 's just joshing , Dominic . I 'll do the skate in wood ear mushroom .
WAITER: Excellent decision . Sir ?
ARTHUR: A bowl of champagne and a spoon . The waiter leaves , despising Arthur .
SUSAN: Arthur , did you really have to be so icky to Dominic ?
ARTHUR: I 'm sorry . I just ca n't handle the whole specials act . It 's not a Shakespearean soliloquy , it 's some heated up dead things that are n't on the main menu .
SUSAN: You know , I was grumbling to you mother about how things are with us sometimes . How I 'm sure you 're trying to drive me away Arthur slurps his champagne .
ARTHUR: Um hm .
SUSAN: But she was explaining that elationships are like property purchases ; invest only in high-end stock , avoid anyone 'up-and- coming ' , then hold onto the property through thick and thin to deliver maximum return ! Is n't that darling ?
ARTHUR: Is it possible to buy the house but then rent it out ? Sorry , joke . I 'm not suggesting pimping you .
SUSAN: Arthur . Why ca n't you learn to laugh at genuinely amusing things ?
ARTHUR: Such as ?
SUSAN: YouTube clips of babies giggling . Dane Cook .
ARTHUR: Susan . Why are we together ?
SUSAN: I love you , Arthur . And you love me , whatever you think .
ARTHUR: We do n't have the same sense of humour . We do n't like the same films , food , music . You like horses , I think they 're arrogant idiots
SUSAN: Do n't they say opposites attract ?
ARTHUR: That depends on the opposites . Racists and the Nation of Islam do n't secretly want to 69 each other . Susan , you 're beautiful . You 're bright . You 're fucking loaded . Is there really no one else who could make you happy ?
SUSAN: No .
ARTHUR: Never ?
SUSAN: Well , I had a thing at college . That was serious for a while . But daddy She stops herself .
ARTHUR: Daddy what ? Prayed to Jesus for it not to work out , then shot the loke behind a meat truck ? Because Jesus would consider that cheating . Susan places her hand on Arthur 's .
SUSAN: Ask me , Arthur . Arthur takes Susan 's hand .
ARTHUR: Susan . You 're the only womanat this table .
SUSAN: You 're not happy , Arthur . Nobody who drinks like you can be happy .
ARTHUR: How do you know ? What if the drunker I get the better it is fo me ? Not everyone who drinks is a poet , Susan . Some of us drink ecause we 're not poets .
SUSAN: A real woman could stop you from drinking .
ARTHUR: It 'd have to be a real big woman .
SUSAN: Ask me , Arthur .
WAITER: Ladies and gentleman - the happy couple !
SUSAN: Erica will be the planner .
ARTHUR: Erica ? She hates me .
SUSAN: Who I love , she loves .
ARTHUR: Oh , come on . She always looks like she wants to set fire to my face then put it out with an Uzi . Susan 's phone rings .
SUSAN: Hellothanks , daddy ! Sorry , hang on , I have Erica calling
ARTHUR: What 's going on ? I only just bloody proposed !
HOBSON: And stop this self-pitying bibble . You 're going to be fabulously rich .
ARTHUR: Maybe I 'd rather be fabulously poor . Some poor people I see look happy .
HOBSON: That 's either because they 're fa away or you 've just given them money . Arthur , poor people have to work . They stand for hours in the ain , waiting for buses full of other poor people to take them to things called ` jobs ' which they do all year round to pay for holidays away from those jobs .
ARTHUR: Do n't patronise me . I have a job .
HOBSON: Lying drunk on a bale of hay in iding boots being photographed by another pampered prick wo n't prepare you for the work I mean . And I do n't want to see you suffer . Take your fish oil .
RALPH: When are we getting cable ?
NAOMI: It 's a satellite dish !
RALPH: I read the box ! It said ` No satellite fees to pay because does not receive satellite signals ! ' That 's like saying ` Hey - eat this plate of broken glass ! It wo n't make you fat . 'cause IT 'S GLASS ! '
NAOMI: It 's better than nothing . Ralph unplugs the dish . The picture improves .
RALPH: No it ai n't . Honey , I love you , but you 're even cheaper than your mom . And she bought food from yard sales .
NAOMI: I miss her too , daddy . But now she 's gone and if I 'm going to keep you in grits and Oprah the rest of your life , you live by my rules .
RALPH: But you live like you 're preparing for a war . And you earn a decent salary .
NAOMI: So ? I want to know I can look afte you .
RALPH: What 's he do , this English bum ?
NAOMI: Who cares ? He 's nice . He 's funny . On CSI , a female body is being unearthed .
RALPH: Yeah and I bet that girl said the same about her date . Honey , stay home . I do n't want you ending up like that poor girl .
NAOMI: A bad actress holding her breath ? She changes the channel to something else .
ARTHUR: Can you put this on please ? Arthur 's holding a blindfold .
NAOMI: On a first date ? Are you crazy ?
ARTHUR: Trust me .
NAOMI: Arthur . We 're in Battery Park at night . I 've met you once - in the company of your nanny . You make a disturbing number of jokes about stalking and basements . My dad already has you down as a mass murderer . And you want me to put on a blindfold ?
ARTHUR: I give you my word - if I kill and eat you , you 'll never see me again . She shrugs and puts on the blindfold .
NAOMI: Okay , I 'm officially a little worried . She tries to pull her blindfold off .
ARTHUR: Do n't worry !
NAOMI: Arthur , I do n't know what to say . It 's beautiful .
LOOKING AROUND: Who did all this ?
ARTHUR: The picnic fairies . Who liaised with the flower fairies , the candle fairies , the log fire fairies , the hidden sound system fairies
NAOMI: Did you take account of the heroin fairies who hang here at night ?
ARTHUR: It 's nice to keep it simple like this . I 'm sick of Michelin-sta estaurants . All that embarrassing crap with the specials .
NAOMI: Are you kidding ? Where I normally eat , the special 's the one that comes with a free toy .
ARTHUR: I get by .
NAOMI: ` It does n't remotely matter how much or what you spend it on ' rich ?
ARTHUR: I once inadvertently financed a terrorist cell who said they needed 100,000 to open a falafel stall . She laughs . She stops laughing .
NAOMI: Oh my G-d , you 're serious .
ARTHUR: What 's the craziest thing you eve told a tour party ?
NAOMI: I once said the Manhattan we were in was actually a movie set built for ` You 've got Mail ' , but that after the film wrapped , everyone moved to the set because there was less crime .
PHONE BLEEPS: Got ta go , battery . Love you too . She ends the call .
ARTHUR: Sounds like you 're very good to him .
NAOMI: What are you gon na do ? All those years your folks tucked you in , did their best to stop you from eating crap in front of the TV . And then one day , you 're the one saying ` No , honey , it 's bad for you ! Go to ed . ' Weird , huh ?
ARTHUR: Yeah . I hate that . Nice bit of kitsch . Where did you find that ?
NAOMI: AT & T store in 1998 .
ARTHUR: It'sYou 've had it twelve years ?
NAOMI: It 's a fine phone . Battery life of eleven seconds , which cuts the crap ight out of conversations .
ARTHUR: I could n't decide between picnic in the park and dinner with a view . So it 's a picnic in the sky ! Is n't it ace ?
NAOMI: No it is not ace , you crazy English astard ! This is dangerous !
ARTHUR: Oh , sorry . Forgot . They said to put these on .
LAUGHING: Naomi , it 's okay ! It 's very safe . It 's this company called ` Aerial Delights ' . They specialise in catering unusual events at a height of 180 feet above the ground .
NAOMI: You 're seriously making date small talk while this is going on ?
ARTHUR: Be still . Breathe deep . ` When you can be calm in the midst of activity , this is the true state of nature ' Huanchu Daoeren .
NAOMI: ` Lower this freak show to the ground and get me a cab ' Naomi Snart .
ARTHUR: Taste this truffle .
NAOMI: What the hell . Got ta go sometime , ight ? At least it wo n't be years of pain like mom . Just a few seconds of screaming and falling with a truffle in my mouth .
ARTHUR: So anyway . The tours
CALMING HERSELF: Okay , okay . Be deep . Breathe still . The tours are a temporary nine yea fill-in until I 'm drowned in a tsunami of apologies from everyone who failed to recognise my writing genius first time round .
ARTHUR: What did you write ?
NAOMI: A kids ' book . I sent a chapter to a childrens ' publisher . Sunshine Press ' . The rejection letter was the meanest thing I ever read .
ARTHUR: Kids can be so cruel
NAOMI: Arthur ? We have a problem .
ARTHUR: I told you , do n't worry . These crane people know what they 're doing !
NAOMI: Not that kind of problem .
JUNKIE: Phone . And the watch . Hurry . Arthur hands him his phone and watch .
ARTHUR: Um . Out of interest , how did you get up here ?
JUNKIE: What you talkin ' about , dog ?
NAOMI: Great . ` Picnic in the sky ' followed y ` Robbed in the sky ' !
ARTHUR: OWWW ! You do n't understand ! We 're 180 feet up in the sky !
JUNKIE: You on the same shit as me , yeah ? Good stuff , right ?
ARTHUR: No , we 're not high ! Well we are , ut only in the literal sense .
TO NAOMI: Hit the panic button ! It 's next to the truffle station !
NAOMI: I ca n't find it . Over here ?
ARTHUR: No ! That 's the bouquet of world hams !
NAOMI: I ca n't believe I 'm saying this , ut so did I .
ERICA: Summarising Phase Alpha formal wear for bridal attendants , groom 's attendants , mens ' formal wear , St John the Divine all confirmed
ARTHUR: Are there breathing holes in the coffin ?
TAILOR: I 'm sorry ?
ARTHUR: In case I 'm passed out drunk rathe than medically dead ?
ERICA: Do n't worry , Thomas . This whole thing 's just a joke to Arthur .
VERY AFFECTIONATE: Thanks , Hobnobs . You are good to me .
VIVIENNE: Take this away .
TO ERICA: Progress on the reception ?
ERICA: Black inked at the Emery Roth Room at the Ritz-Carlton . The screen lights up with a church graphic .
ARTHUR: Sorry , everyone . that graphic 's too colourful and this hangover 's a 7.6 on the Richter..the Sickter Arthur 's sick . Erica lays out more sheets .
ERICA: Cakes , caterers , floral arrangements , photographer
HOBSON: Will there be anything else , sir ?
ARTHUR: No , thanks .
HOBSON: Ma'am ?
VIVIENNE: No . You can leave .
ARTHUR: Why all this crap now ? What 's the ush anyway ?
BURT: The wedding is in a month , Arthur .
ARTHUR: A month ? I was thinking more sort of ten , fifteen years . Just to eally enjoy the anticipation of the big day . Arthur gets up .
ERICA: Where are you going ?
ARTHUR: Sorry , Dwight D. Bridalshower , Operation Ball and Chain will have to wait .
NAOMI: We 're not going to end up in the Hudson again , are we ?
ARTHUR: I can promise you wo n't get wet .
NAOMI: Are you okay ?
ARTHUR: Yeah , fine . Actually
NAOMI: Hey , Richey Rich . Want to go somewhere really romantic ? It 's a big tacky shop JACK 'S 99 CENT STORE .
ARTHUR: Everything is 99 cents ?
NAOMI: Yip . A whole penny less than those ourgeois assholes at the Dolla Store . Arthur reads a doll 's label .
ARTHUR: ` Warning This product contains chromium , which may be linked to chronic bronchitis and reproductive hazards . ''
NAOMI: That one was on the news . Everyone else recalled them , the pussies . Not my 99 Cent !
ARTHUR: Maybe China 's trying to wipe out the west 's children one by one . He gazes around in wonder .
NAOMI: Oh , I love this place .
ARTHUR: Why ?
NAOMI: Well , I 'd like you to believe it 's ecause I 'm a poor girl reduced to uying ` Depressed Chef ' burgers-in- a-can to Right Said Fred because I do n't know where my next paycheck is coming from . But the truth is - argains get me hot . Got it from ma . Drives my dad crazy . The tour ?
ARTHUR: Yes please . She takes his arm .
NAOMI: Looking west , the ladies ' hygiene products . Note that the more natural-sounding the name , e.g . this 'Vermont Breeze ' Feminine Spray , the more lethal chemicals it contains . Watch out for the products cunningly labelled to make the dumber consumer think they 're getting the real thing 'Special J ' , 'Crampbell 's Soup ' , `` Aunt Janina 's ' Maple-Style Syrup
ARTHUR: Just fascinated .
NAOMI: You 're good at fascinated .
ARTHUR: You 're good at fascinating .
OLD WOMAN: Not that one .
ARTHUR: This one ?
OLD WOMAN: No . There 's less beans in it .
ARTHUR: This one ?
OLD WOMAN: No .
ARTHUR: This one ?
OLD WOMAN: You got a good one here , honey . She hurries away .
ARTHUR: Look . Us in a year 's time .
NAOMI: I 'll get ill . The music changes .
ERICA: Tiger Woods has confirmed !
ARTHUR: I did n't know you knew him .
SUSAN: I do n't .
ARTHUR: Why is he coming ?
SUSAN: He agreed to daddy 's fee . This is going to be the happiest day of my life ! She looks at Hobson .
ARTHUR: If you can bring Erica , I can bring Hobson .
SUSAN: She 's my wedding planner .
ARTHUR: She 's my Hobson .
HOBSON: Tell Naomi . That 's an order .
ARTHUR: Reminiscent of a French castle perched 500 feet above New York , the penthouse was known from early days as the ` Chateau in the Sky ' .
NAOMI: A second ballroom . Obviously . Got ta have a second ballroom .
ARTHUR: Where George Gershwin and the Astors danced to Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm Orchestra . He grabs her in a ballroom dance move .
NAOMI: I just need one of your collection of bathrooms .
ARTHUR: Behind the telephone box fish tank . See you on the balcony .
NAOMI: Hobson ?
HOBSON: He 's not like other men , you know .
NAOMI: I think I realised that as I plunged into the Hudson with a junkie . But I like him . He 's fun .
HOBSON: I know he is . That 's the problem .
NAOMI: What does that mean ?
HOBSON: I 'm sure Arthur will explain .
ARTHUR: Your kids ' book . What was it about ?
NAOMI: ` Vlad the Inhaler ' . About an asthmatic boy detective .
ARTHUR: Be serious .
NAOMI: Oh , it was dumb . ` The Boy Whose Heart Escaped ' . It was about this kid who wakes up to find his heart has climbed out and is shinning down the drainpipe to freedom .
ARTHUR: I love it .
NAOMI: Rainbow Press said it was too disturbing . But it was n't literal - there was n't a kid lying there with a gaping hole in his chest . It was just this cute little heart ouncing up and down shouting ` You ca n't catch me , mofo ! ' . I 'm paraphrasing .
ARTHUR: Did he catch the heart ?
NAOMI: Never got that far . Arthur wobbles a little more .
ARTHUR: Only if I 'm sad , happy or bored . There 's this bit in a book Hobson used to read me as a kid that says it all ` We must stop eating cookies , Frog ! ' cried Toad , as he ate another . '
NAOMI: Frog and Toad ! I loved Frog and Toad !
ARTHUR: ` Frog put the cookies in a box . ` There ' he said . Now we will not eat any more cookies . ' ` But we can open the box . ' Frog tied some string around the box . ` There ' he said , ` Now we will not eat any more cookies ' . ` But we can cut the string and open the box ' . Naomi lays her head on Arthur 's shoulder .
MORE: 64 .
BEAT: Classic addict .
NAOMI: That was beautiful . It 's like you ead it yesterday .
ARTHUR: I could n't tell her , Hobson . She is n't the Komodo dragon . She 's my toad .
HOBSON: You 're quite sure about this ?
ARTHUR: Yes .
HOBSON: Oh , bollocks .
RALPH: I do n't know , honey . What 's this teabag even doing here ? Could n't he make it in Lord of the Rings land ?
NAOMI: Not that it matters , but he 's a illionaire .
RALPH: You have my full permission to marry him .
GRANT: Bravo , Vivienne ! Well done !
ARTHUR: I 'd be wary , Grant . She 's planning to ride you around the course next . Her last boyfriend broke his ankle jumping that ditch . Had to be destroyed on the spot . Vivienne canters her horse up to them .
VIVIENNE: Arthur . What 's so urgent that you had to come all the way out here ?
ARTHUR: I 'm in love . With a woman who is n't exactly who you 'd describe as Susan . She 's called Naomi .
VIVIENNE: Arthur , we 've been through this !
ARTHUR: Wo n't you at least meet her ?
VIVIENNE: What family is she from ?
ARTHUR: The Snarts of Detroit .
VIVIENNE: Never heard of them .
ARTHUR: No , because they 're normal . She 's a walking tour guide , her dad 's a etired car worker .
VIVIENNE: Susan will generate quality sons , not oil-soaked car monkeys .
ARTHUR: Unbelievable ! Why do n't you just keep me here , pay a servant to wank me into a bottle once a day
VIVIENNE: Arthur
ARTHUR: then inject it all into a field of heiresses and see who farts out a thoroughbred first ?
VIVIENNE: We need an heir !
ARTHUR: Fine ! You can have one with Stevey Steroids here ! Surely even you uterus has had a face lift by now . Arthur storms away towards the car .
GRANT: That 's enough , Arthur
ARTHUR: None of your business , J Crew .
GRANT: You are so ungrateful to you mother . She adores you !
VIVIENNE: Arthur . Come back here .
ARTHUR: You can shove your inheritance up your horse 's arse !
VIVIENNE: Suit yourself , Arthur . Follow you heart . But do be aware I conside what you 've squandered so far an advance on your inheritance . That 's about $ 17 million .
ARTHUR: Why would you do that ? You 'd neve get it back .
VIVIENNE: No . But you 'd spend the rest of your life in court . There 's a simple solution to all this . Marry Susan . And cheat with the nobody from Queens .
NAOMI: Have you been at the cookies ?
ARTHUR: I ate the whole jar .
NAOMI: Oh , man . What ? What ?
ARTHUR: I 'm engaged . To another Susan . Woman . Engaged to another woman . She slams her menu down .
NAOMI: What are you talking about ? This is ullshit . Who do you think you are ? Is this some rich guy thing ?
ARTHUR: I was going to tell you ! I just
NAOMI: Yeah , yeah , you just .
ARTHUR: Please , Naomi ! I did n't mean for it to get to this ! I planned to just e your friend but then I started to fall for you and I thought ` I ca n't marry Susan , I might fall fo Naomi ! ' But I thought ` No I have to marry Susan or I 'll be poor so I wo n't fall for Naomi ' But then I did fall for you ! Because you 're ainy and funny and gorgeous and too smart to do walking tours . You 're too smart , Snart . Smart Snart . There 's a 99 cent cereal .
BEAT: Anyway , so I went to see Vivienne , and I said ` I ca n't marry Susan , I love Naomi she 's my Frog my Toad ' I do n't know any more .
NAOMI: You 're frog .
ARTHUR: Thanks . Then she said ` Noooo , if you do n't marry Susan , I 'll make you pay all the inheritance money ack even if you ca n't - ha ha ha ' . Okay she did n't laugh but she might as well have , the evil cow . Because it 's like all the money ever and they 'll put not just me but both of us in prison and your dad , like in Dickens . There 'll be ghosts , and Oliver and . He stops , his mouth flapping like a fish .
NAOMI: Maybe if I 'd spotted this facet of your personality earlier we would n't be having this conversation .
ARTHUR: Toad ? Stay a bit longer . Please ?
NAOMI: Why ?
ARTHUR: 'cause it 'll reduce the proportion of my life I 'll spend feeling utterly miserable .
NAOMI: Bye , Arthur . Arthur looks confused .
ARTHUR: Bea Arthur ? What 's she got to do with all this ? She shakes her head and goes .
NAOMI: It 's going to be okay . I 'll get you a beer , yeah ?
RALPH: I just have to be alone for a minuteOh , G-d , I ca n't bea it
NAOMI: Designed by William Van Allen and inspired by the machine age of the 1920s , the Chrysler
BEAT: Sorry , sir . Late night , no sleep , long day . What 's your question ?
FEMALE TOURIST: When I stand here taking every eath with you , ooh
NAOMI: What is going on ?
NEWSSTAND GUY: And even shared the tears .
ARTHUR: So take a look at me now , 'cause there 's just an empty space . And there 's nothing left here to emind me , just the memory of you face .
MORE: 72 .
NAOMI: Sorry to be a wet blanket , folks . he 's getting married . But I guess he did n't choreograph that bit fo you .
ARTHUR: But..but this took ages to ehearse . I had the frog outfit specially made . These are n't actual tourists .
NAOMI: I gathered that , Arthur . Are you capable of doing anything without it being a grand gesture ?
ARTHUR: What do you mean ?
NAOMI: It 's like Hobson said . You 're not like other men . If you were normal , if the money and the booze did n't cloud everything , you 'd deal with the fact that you 're engaged , ather than just looking for ways to win me back . But it was a lovely outine , really . Fantastic outfit .
ARTHUR: I just wanted to see you . He takes out his flask and has a swig .
NAOMI: You need to see someone , Arthur . Seriously .
ARTHUR: Hobson ! Female Tom Hanks has had a haircut ! Hobson ?
MARTY: It says here you should n't forget to clean your junk . I guess that 's what'genitahlio-ah ' is .
ARTHUR: Marty ? What are you doing there ?
MARTY: Hobson left me in charge . She 's gone to bed . She had a headache .
ARTHUR: She 's had quite a few headaches lately .
MARTY: She blacked out .
HOBSON: Put my bears back on , Arthur .
ARTHUR: Not until you answer my question .
HOBSON: I 'm travelling down a white tunnel . To - a garden ? Mother ? Father ? Why is it so hot ? Who 's the red gentleman with the big pitchfork ?
ARTHUR: Will you cut it out ?
HOBSON: Arthur . There are three books . This is important . Take them back to the library She feigns a melodramatic death .
ARTHUR: Hobson , please . Do n't die any more . It 's getting very boring .
HOBSON: Arthur . Old women , like bears , get sore heads . Are you okay ? You look a little lost .
ARTHUR: Naomi does n't want to see me .
HOBSON: A terrible shame she had to go . A little tart like that could have saved you a fortune in prostitutes .
ARTHUR: Listen , old woman . Do n't ever talk about Naomi that way again . What gives you the right to be such a snob ? You 're justyou 're just Mary Poppins with a menopause !
HOBSON: I 'm sorry too . You know , Arthur , you may be growing up .
ARTHUR: Do you want anything ?
HOBSON: I want to be younger .
ARTHUR: Sorry , it 's your job to be older .
THINKS: Hobson . If you 're feeling bette tomorrow , will you accompany me somewhere ?
HOBSON: Of course , Arthur .
MEGAN: I was waking up four , five , six mornings a week in different mens ' eds
JAMES: I steal from my friends , my family . I sold my son 's pedal car so I could score junk
ARTHUR: Jesus .
JAMES: I accidentally backed my car ove my mother outside Walgreens Marty chuckles . He tries to fist-bump James .
HOBSON: Marty ! This is n't a sports bar in Chicago . These people are n't here to brag .
JAMES: I had a business , a home and it 's all gone ! I 'm in this fucking grave and they 're pouring the earth in !
ARTHUR: Whoooaaahh . Okay , cut . I do n't know about anyone else , but this is n't exactly killing my thirst .
LEADER: Well why did you comeWhat 's you name ?
ARTHUR: Gandalf .
TO JAMES: And no offence but if I ran over my mother , I 'd be out celebrating . Which is what I plan to do right now . Come on , Hobson . Marty . Arthur leaves , the door swinging behind him .
HOBSON: and because I have done nothing with the astonishing opportunities handed to me , apart from pissing away my inheritance and drinking enough to kill a rhino . Arthur , having heard , comes back in .
ARTHUR: It 's always the quiet ones .
HOBSON: Just promise you 'll never ask me to sleep with Susan for you .
NAOMI: Arthur , if that 's
BEAT: Hello ? Yes . Yes , I didYes . Sorry ? Really ? Well I worked pretty hard on it..Love toLove toWhat time ?
HOBSON: Good afternoon , Mr Snart . Is Naomi here ?
RALPH: You must be the nanny .
HOBSON: I must be . Ralph embraces her .
NAOMI: Well , well .
RALPH: Ever since I met Arthur I liked him . We have to make sure these two wonderful kids stay together
HOBSON: Try not to talk . It 's not you words but the breath which bears them . Perhaps you could repair to the East Wing and make me a cup of tea ? I wish to speak to Naomi .
RALPH: Sure , sure . Ralph leaves .
HOBSON: Arthur is having a pre-wedding party tonight . You should come .
NAOMI: Oh , should I ? Are all the othe girls he passed up going too ?
HOBSON: Do n't you want to show Arthur how well you 're doing ?
NAOMI: Tell him thanks , but I have a deadline .
HOBSON: Arthur does n't know I 'm here . He 's far too decent to be involved in something so tawdry . You could ing your father . A magical experience before he 's too big to leave this apartment .
NAOMI: Why would I go to this ? Why would I do that to myself ?
HOBSON: My dear , if there 's one thing old women can tell , it 's young men in love . And the food promises to be eathtakingly free .
NAOMI: Are you alright ?
HOBSON: Better than you , dear .
NAOMI: You really look out for Arthur , do n't you ?
HOBSON: Yes . And it is a job that I ecommend highly .
NAOMI: Ah , what am I gon na do ? The no-kill pet shelter wo n't take him . Ralph hands Hobson the cup of tea .
HOBSON: Thank you . Would you go the athroom and commence washing ? You only have three hours and it could e quite a project . Ralph goes . Naomi takes the tea .
NAOMI: I appreciate what you 're trying to do but I 'm not going to that party .
HOBSON: Suit yourself . Hobson gets up , still dizzy .
NAOMI: Have you seen a doctor ?
HOBSON: Yes . And he has seen me .
NAOMI: I think Arthur has a very good friend . May I kiss you on the cheek ?
HOBSON: Is it something you feel strongly about ?
NAOMI: Yes .
VOCALIST: Thanks . We 're going to move things up tempo now with ` The Only Thing That Looks Good On Me Is You . '
VIVIENNE: Splendid affair , Susan .
SUSAN: Do n't thank me , thank Erica .
NAOMI: With all due respect , Hobson , you 're talking out of your frumpy English ass . Arthur needs to know !
HOBSON: You are not to pull him out of that party on my behalf .
BEAT: Hello ? Naomi !
RALPH: You 're gon na get through this , abe . Then who knows what the future may hold ?
DOOR MAN: Excuse me , madam . Name ? Madam ?
NAOMI: Snart plus one .
PASSING WOMAN: Nice dress . Vera Wang ?
NAOMI: Ross Dress For Less . You know where Arthur is ?
PASSING WOMAN: Sorry .
BURT: When Arthur proposed to my daughter , I was overjoyous . The Bach-Templemeads are my kind of people classy . Respectable . Well spoken . People like in Shakespeare in Love , who esprouse the same values I have always upheld both in my business and spiritual life . But tonight is n't about me or America 's leading independent formula brand . Arthur takes the stage to wild applause .
ARTHUR: Thank you , Burt ! I 've actually prepared a little surprise song with my friends here .
STOPS: I 'll sing a proper song .
SINGS: You say potayto and I say potahto , You say tomayto and I say tomahto , potayto , potahto , tomayto , tomahto , Let 's call the whole thing off ! You say AA , and I say ` no way ' , you say ` Red Bull ' and I say ` Go away , Rehab , No way , Red Bull
JUSTIN: We meet again !
NAOMI: Yeah . Have you seen Arthur ?
JUSTIN: The ballroom . I 'll take you to him .
NAOMI: Of course she is . Why would Arthu marry a pig ?
JUSTIN: What business is your family in ?
NAOMI: Hm ? Oh , I 'm the heiress to a fortune built on small pets .
JUSTIN: I 'm sorry ?
NAOMI: Hamsters , mice , doglets
JUSTIN: Doglets ?
NAOMI: Tiny dogs . The technology 's not perfect . Seeing a horse the size of a can of soup fall dead before you eyes - that shit stays with you .
JUSTIN: Absolutely . Naomi turns to A WOMAN .
NAOMI: Excuse me . Have you seen Arthur ?
WOMAN: That way . The ballroom .
NAOMI: Bye , Justin .
DOOR MAN: Excuse me , madam . You 're not an authorized guest .
NAOMI: I know that . I 'm here to give Arthur some very important news .
DOOR MAN: Of course you are . Shall we discuss this outside ?
NAOMI: Get your hands off me ! They tussle . Arthur intercedes .
ARTHUR: It 's okay , Jeff . She can stay .
NAOMI: Arthur , can I talk to you ?
ARTHUR: But what about the other blackouts ?
HOBSON: Arthur , I 'm fine . Do not leave that party .
ARTHUR: She 's fine . They 're sending he home . Do you want a drink ?
NAOMI: No , thanks , Arthur . I should go .
ARTHUR: But you came all this way . There 's idiculously fancy food , there 's
NAOMI: Arthur . Please . Can you just call me a cab ?
ARTHUR: You 're a cab .
NAOMI: Orders cabs to take the girls away ?
ARTHUR: Thank you for coming all this way . I 'm sorry for all the stupid presents and calls and gestures .
NAOMI: It 's okay .
ARTHUR: What were you like as a kid ?
NAOMI: Nuts . I thought the moon followed me . I would walk and think the moon went any place that I did . I thought it meant something special would happen . So I 've been waiting . What an ass .
ARTHUR: Dance ?
NAOMI: Arthur . We 've been through this . Call that cab please .
MANDY MILLER: To Bombay , a travelling circus came , they brought an intelligent elephant and Nellie was her name
NAOMI: What the bejeezus is this ?
ARTHUR: Hobson used to sing it to me .
SINGING ALONG: One dark night , she slipped he iron chain . Off she ran to Hindustan and was never seen again . Nellie the Elephant packed he ags , And said goodbye to the circus , Off she went with a trumpety trump , Trump trump trump
VIVIENNE: Is this the tour guide ?
ARTHUR: She 's a writer .
NAOMI: Is this the Vivienne ?
VIVIENNE: Crowded field , writing .
ARTHUR: Maybe someone will see he potential .
VIVIENNE: We all know who 's seen he potential .
NAOMI: Meaning ?
VIVIENNE: Oh , of course , you do n't know , do you ? Arthur suddenly goes pale .
ARTHUR: Vivienne , please . Do n't
NAOMI: What is going on here ?
VIVIENNE: My son became fond of you . You 're not the first . Or the last , I imagine . Anyway I was scanning his monthly expenses - which always makes for entertaining reading , all those gifts for all those girls - and found he 'd bought an entire publishing company calledwhat was it now ? Rainbow Press .
NAOMI: You bought Rainbow press ? So you could tell them to publish my book ?
VIVIENNE: He knows people , dear . I 'm sure you do too , though the people you know tend not to own books , let alone publishers . Arthur , I trust we 'll see you back at the party ? Susan 's a little worried .
ARTHUR: NAOMI ! PLEASE ! I did n't think I would ever see you again . I was just trying to give you some
NAOMI: Confidence ? Self esteem is n't a gift , Arthur ! It is n't a fur coat or a thousand billion orchids or an apartment made from truffles o whatever else you rich freaks use to express love ! Arthur looks incredibly hurt .
ARTHUR: I do express love ! I love you !
NAOMI: Do n't say that !
ARTHUR: You just told me to ! And stop going on about me being rich ! You think it 's easy being trapped by money ?
NAOMI: Hello , Amnesty ? Come quick ! Arthur 's being held against his will in Guantamoney Bay !
ARTHUR: Abu Greed ?
NAOMI: Stop riffing with me ! How dare you do what you did . I did n't need you money to feel good about myself !
ARTHUR: No . Being cheap gives you that .
NAOMI: Huh ?
ARTHUR: At least I 'm prepared to have fun . To live . I 'm not all ` Oooh look at me with my antique food , are n't I cool ? ' Andandyour phone 's RUBBISH ! It 's made of bits of old doorbell and vibrator , I bet you can only get calls from 1994 on it !
NAOMI: As long as I do n't get any from a drunk , rich fuck up like you ! A door opens .
SUSAN: Hello ? I heard shouting .
NAOMI: I 'm an employee of Arthur 's . I came to complain about the conditions .
ARTHUR: Naomi , please
NAOMI: Mr Bach-Templemead , I know you thought putting half and half in the staff kitchen was an improvement .
REALLY ANGRY: But some people prefer Coffee Mate ! You were disrespectful . I quit ! Naomi walks away , slamming a door behind her .
SUSAN: Because you changed the creamer ?
BEAT: Arthur , Marty called from the hospital .
ARTHUR: It 's okay , Hobson 's fine . I spoke to her doctor .
SUSAN: Apparently you did n't .
HOBSON: It 's just a headache !
ARTHUR: Stop saying that ! You bribed a hospital orderly to tell me you were okay !
HOBSON: Oh , bothersnaps . What do doctors know ?
ARTHUR: Da dahhhh ! I give you the amazing costly , health-giving presents !
HOBSON: I do n't want to put it on .
ARTHUR: Put it on . Or I 'll fire you .
PAUSE: Okay , or I wo n't fire you . She dons the full face helmet .
HOBSON: How much did you waste on this poppycock ? Arthur and Marty laugh .
VADER VOICE: I see you 've decided not to grow up after all .
MARTY: She sounds like Darth Invader !
HOBSON: Why , Arthur ?
DOCTOR: Mr Bach-Templemead ? Do you have a moment ?
ARTHUR: Home ? That 's great news . Is n't it ?
HOBSON: I have no idea .
ARTHUR: You might have a brain tumour but you 're not a complete veggie burge just yet . Has Naomi been here ?
HOBSON: She dropped by once or twice . Frightful needy trollop .
ARTHUR: I thought she gave up writing .
HOBSON: Just trying to spare her outright humiliation while I 'm still here .
ARTHUR: Do n't wear yourself out . You 're not going anywhere soon .
HOBSON: Arthur . I 've loved caring for you so much . But you 'll never grow up with me around . So either I retire . Or I die . Option 1 involves too much paperwork and blather with having to find somewhere else to live . And no offence to you , dea oy
ARTHUR: But you spent half of it looking after a spoilt drunk twat .
HOBSON: Exactly . Sorry Arthur . I 'm past my use-by date .
ARTHUR: Sorry , Hobson , You do n't win this one . I need you to care for me . Now take your fish oil .
SHOUTS: GET UP HERE ! SHE 'S NOT
ARTHUR: Would Frog ever get up again ? O would he just sit in his tank , crying and soiling himself until he died of dehydration because he did n't even have the energy to eat a wet sandwich . He looks down at an ashes urn .
MARTY: How 's the tea ?
ARTHUR: Shockingly bad , thanks , Marty .
MARTY: Want to talk about the Cubs game ?
ARTHUR: Nahhh . Can I be alone please ?
VIVIENNE: Arthur ! You have n't answered the phone for eight days . Susan 's eside herself . What 's going on ?
ARTHUR: What do you think 's going on ? Hobson died .
VIVIENNE: Oh , that .
TO MAIDS: Chop chop ! You cleany penthouseio ! Come on , Arthur . Have to pick yourself up , lad . It 's like when Nixon my Great Dane had to be put down . Frightful state for days . But I pulled myself together .
ARTHUR: You 're comparing Hobson toa dog ?
VIVIENNE: Well , yes . A faithful , humble companion who
ARTHUR: Um , I think I 'd like you to leave , if that 's okay . Now ?
VIVIENNE: Remember who pays for this apartment , Arthur . For everything ! He guides her out the door .
ARTHUR: Do n't worry . If I 'm going to drink myself to death I 'll need esources . Bye Vivienne
VIVIENNE: It 's mother !
ARTHUR: My mother 's dead . He slams the door . The phone rings again .
AHERNE: The last will and testament of Jane Hobson .
READS: ` I leave my life savings to the Tulare Bear Sanctuary , Tulare County , California . ' Aherne hands Mr Finke A CHECK for $ 8,864 .
ARTHUR: That 'll explain the strong smell of ear shit . Sorry . Aherne opens a tiny envelope .
AHERNE: To Arthur Bach Templemead , I leave this . She produces a teabag .
PAUSE: Arthur . You 're going to be okay . Now it 's your turn to look afte someone . All my deepest , fondest love , my dearest boy . I 'm smiling down at you - or more likely , up at you - forever and ever , H xxxxxxxx .
BURT: I just want you to know , if he does n't show up for this wedding , I ca n't know what I 'll do .
VIVIENNE: Do n't worry , Burt . He 's cleaned himself up . He 's stopped drinking , he 's anxious to get a real job . He 's become a responsible citizen .
NAOMI: Due to a tragic error in the architect 's drawing , the original Statue of Liberty unveiled in 1886 was just seven inches tall . 100,000 New Yorkers rioted , having come expecting to see something more impressive than a garden gnome holding up an ice cream
ARTHUR: Naomi !
NAOMI: Girl 's got ta have a dream .
ARTHUR: Naomi . Can you take the next 60 years off ?
NAOMI: Are you okay ? You 're a mess . You look like younow .
ARTHUR: Sorry . I accidentally swallowed three bottles of hand sanitizer . Fascinating storyOkay .
MORE: 101 .
SHOUTS: Who wants the watch Neil Armstrong wore to step on the sun !
NAOMI: I 'm so sorry about Hobson . They step away from the tourists .
ARTHUR: I 'm sorry about the Rainbow Press .
NAOMI: It 's okay . So how did Susan take it that you 're not marrying her ?
ARTHUR: She did n't .
NAOMI: You have n't told her ?
ARTHUR: What 's it to you ? She 's your arch- enemy .
NAOMI: Are you six ? She is n't my enemy . She 's the woman you proposed to !
ARTHUR: I could n't tell her ! Today 's the iggest day of her life !
NAOMI: The wedding 's today ? When ?
ARTHUR: 12 . Which is Where 's my watch gone ?
NAOMI: It 's eight minutes to .
ARTHUR: It 's too late , then . Naomi hands Arthur her phone .
NAOMI: Church ?
ARTHUR: St. John the Divine . Can we please just get me some clothes
NAOMI: St John..Fourth largest church in the world111th and Amsterdam . It 's about four miles . Bette hurry .
ARTHUR: You want me to go there ? Like this ?
NAOMI: What 's the alternative ? Jilt Susan at the altar ? Can I expect the same treatment when you dump me ?
ARTHUR: No ! I love you !
NAOMI: C'mon , folks
ARTHUR: Naomi ! Susan 's dad will
NAOMI: Arthur . Prove you 're not the same pampered little boy who can have what he wants then toss it aside when he 's bored . Then we 'll talk . She sits in the driving seat and belts up .
ARTHUR: Naomi ! I do n't even know the way !
NAOMI: 5thright on Broadwayleft at TimesRight on 7thback on Broadway.right on Amsterdam . The church is the big stone pointy thing full of rich people . The bus door shuts . Naomi drives away .
ARTHUR: SHIT ! TAXI !
DRIVER: About 15 bucks
ARTHUR: Can anyone spare $ 15 please ?
DRIVER: What about tip ? You cheapskate ?
ARTHUR: 30 ?
DRIVER: A block and a half .
ARTHUR: GO !
PASSERBY: Yes . Arthur runs down the steps .
ARTHUR: Excuse me . Terribly sorry to bothe you , but
NAOMI: originally a rough neighbourhood . Some say it was called 42nd Street because it was n't safe to spend more than forty seconds on it . A few grudging laughs from the tourists .
MALE TOURIST: Excuse me .
NAOMI: If you burst into song , you 're off this bus .
MALE TOURIST: Huh ? I want to see St. John the Divine .
NAOMI: Sorry , sir , that 's not on our route today . Anyway
FEMALE TOURIST: I want to know if Arthur 's gon na make it .
MALE TOURIST: It says here ` ask about you personalised tours ' . I want the personalised tour . To St. John the Divine !
NAOMI: Okay !
ARTHUR: Ah ! I 'm trying to get to
MANAGER: Hey ! A police car rounds the corner .
POLICEMAN: Uh , unit 6J , we have reports of an indecent exposure on a school bus .
ARTHUR: I 'm not him . Look ma ! No holes . Arthur slips in a side door .
SUSAN: Arthur ? What 's going on ?
ARTHUR: Susan . I can'tI ca n't He leads her away from the bridesmaids .
SUSAN: What ?
ARTHUR: The girl at the party ? The one who talked all that rubbish about Coffee Mate ? I love her . Susan slaps Arthur . Hard .
SUSAN: Shut up ! We 're getting married !
ARTHUR: But I do n't love you !
SUSAN: And you think I love you ?
ARTHUR: Well , yes . What 's not to
SUSAN: I never have .
ARTHUR: Susan , you 're upset , you hate me . It 's okay . Now I 'm sorry , I have to go , or your dad 's going to do whatever he did to your boyfriend from college .
SUSAN: Daddy never hurt Alex . He paid he parents to send her away..
ARTHUR: HER ? You're..a
SUSAN: Lesbian . Yes . You may have noticed that daddy is homophobic . He swore he 'd disown me if it happened again .
ARTHUR: Butwhy do you want to marry Arthur glances across , sees Erica skulking .
SUSAN: Why else do you think I 'd spend more than 30 seconds in you company ? You 're the perfect cover .
ARTHUR: Have you been pretending to like Dane Cook as well ?
SUSAN: No .
ARTHUR: Wow . Wow . Well . Uh Thanks for your honesty . I do n't feel so bad about calling this off . Erica steps in his way .
SUSAN: Arthur , please . You can drink as much as you like , sneak off to Naomi . We keep the money . We live our lives . Everyone wins .
ARTHUR: I may be a weak , pathetic drunk . But I wo n't marry a lesbian Dane Cook fan . Arthur pushes past Erica .
MORE: 112 .
PAUSE: You wo n't be seeing me again , as I 'm going to be poor . I 'll be shopping at the 99 Cent Store . Six pork chops for under a dollar !
SUSAN: Daddy , no ! Stop it ! Vivienne bursts in . Followed by Naomi .
VIVIENNE: Burt ! Get off my son ! But nothing 's going to stop Burt .
BURT: You would n't hurt me .
SUSAN: Would n't I ? You crushed me .
BURT: I just wanted you to be happy .
SUSAN: Bullshit . You wanted to stop me eing a lesbian !
BURT: Shut up ! Shut up you dirty little dyke harlot !
ERICA: You want some more , bitch ? Huh ? Arthur looks up at Susan .
SUSAN: Erica , that 's enough , honey . Erica stops . Susan kisses her .
ARTHUR: Why did n't you tell me ? We could have worked something out . Naomi give Arthur a look .
NAOMI: Because I hate an infection ! Keep still .
ARTHUR: No , you keep still . He kisses Naomi passionately .
NAOMI: What are we going to do , Arthur ?
ARTHUR: I 'll get a job . I 'll model cheap iding boots for people with no horses . You can write books about oys whose lungs have run away .
VIVIENNE: Stop this ! Vivienne walks up to the altar .
ARTHUR: Sorry , Vivienne . I ca n't do that .
VIVIENNE: I beg your pardon ?
ARTHUR: You 've never earned that title . I would n't fake it with Susan . I wo n't with you .
VIVIENNE: Arthur . I will withdraw this offe forever . Do n't doubt me , boy .
ARTHUR: I do n't . Arthur shakes Vivienne 's hand .
VIVIENNE: Arthur ! Arthur ! I am serious ! If you walk out of that door
ARTHUR: Sorry , Marty . This is n't mine any more . Fancy joining us for a bowl of Special J ?
ARTHUR: Operational heat controls in a shower are a basic human right !
RALPH: Package for you . With any luck an apartment for you and Lurch .
ARTHUR: I thought you liked me .
RALPH: I may have been seduced by money . It happens .
ARTHUR: ` Can I be your friend at least ? Love , Vivienne xxx . P.S . Lunch sometime ? P.P.S . The inheritance is yours . It always was . ' Arthur looks at Naomi , at Ralph , at Marty .
RALPH: On balance , I 'd go for it .
MARTY: Money good . They look at Naomi .
NAOMI: You were never happy rich , honey . It 's only been a month . Be strong . Remember however hard life gets , love will always find a way .
MORE: 117 .
ARTHUR: Brought her for moral support . But I 'll do the talking this time .
DIRECTOR: Cut ! Excellent !
GEORGE: With pleasure !
MELVIN: Come here , sweetheart come on .
MELVIN: Wan na go for a ride ? Okay , sweetie ?
SIMON: Verdell ! ? ! ! Here , good doggie He notices Melvin at the far end of the hall .
MELVIN: What 's he look like ?
SIMON: My dog you know I mean my little dog with the adorable face Do n't you know what my dog looks like ?
MELVIN: I got it . You 're talking about your dog . I thought that was the name of the colored man I 've been seeing in the hall .
SIMON: Which color was that ?
MELVIN: Like thick molasses , with one of those wide noses perfect fo smelling trouble and prison food Simon has had it .
SIMON: Frank Sachs Melvin Udall .
MELVIN: How 're you doing ?
SIMON: Franks shows my work , Mr. Udall . I think you know that .
FRANK: Simon , you 've got to get dressed .
MELVIN: What I know is that as long as you keep your work zipped up around me , I do n't give a fuck what o where you shove your show . Are we eing neighbors for now ?
SIMON: Do you still think I was exaggerating ? FRANK can only smile .
FRANK: Definitely a package you do n't want to open or touch .
MELVIN: Hope you find him . I love that dog .
SIMON: You do n't love anything , Mr. Udall .
MELVIN: I love throwing your dog down the garbage chute .
PARTY GOER: He always liked me .
SIMON: Just for a second , okay ?
HANDYMAN: In the basement garbage bin eating diaper shit .
SIMON: Go ahead , John , you earned your fun . How did he get down in the asement ? I mean even if he got on the elevator how ?
HANDYMAN: Maybe some nice neighbor shoved him down the garbage chute .
SIMON: My God ! No ! He stares out Frank frustrated following .
MELVIN: 'Somewhat in the dark , she had confessed and he had forgiven . This is what you live for , he said . Two heads on a pillow where there is only the safety of being with each other . How , she wondered , could she find such hope in the most shameful part of her . '
SIMON: Maybe this can wait .
MELVIN: Well , that 's a load off .
SIMON: Did you do something to him ?
MELVIN: Do you realize that I work at him ?
SIMON: No , I did n't .
MELVIN: Do you like to be interrupt when you are danging around in you little garden ?
SIMON: No actually , I even shut the phone off and put a little piece of cardboard in the ringer so no one can just buzz me from d
MELVIN: Well , I work all the time . So never , never again interrupt me . Okay ? I mean , never . Not 30 years from now not if there 's fire . Not even if you hear a thud from inside my home and a week later there 's a smell from in there that can only come from a decaying body and you have to hold a hanky against your face because the stench is so thick you think you 're going to faint even then do n't come knocking or , if it 's election night and you 're excited and want to celebrate because some fudge-packer you dated has been elected the first queer President of the United States and he 's going to put you up in Camp David and you just want to share the moment with someone do n't knock not on this door . Not fo anything . Got me . Sweetheart ?
SIMON: Yes . It 's not a subtle point you 're making .
MELVIN: Okay , then .
SIMON: So the theory of confrontations is that now he 'll think twice before messing with me ?
FRANK: Wo n't worry about it . You go ahead .
MELVIN: No touch . No touch . No touch .
FRANK: You may think you can intimidate the whole world with you attitude , but I grew up in Hell . My grandmother had more attitude . You do n't intimidate me .
MELVIN: Police ! Police ! Fucking crooked police doughnut-munching morons help me ! Assault and battery and you 're lack .
FRANK: Shhhh now . I like Simon . I like him enough to batter you unrecognizable if you verbally abuse him or so much as touch his dog again . Meanwhile , I 'll try and think how you can make this up to him . I hate doing this . I 'm an art dealer . Have a nice day . Party !
CAROL: Look at you , you 're all better .
MOTHER: It 's that new medication .
CAROL: You know all my son 's stuff , ight ?
MOTHER: Is n't that sweet .
CAROL: Little blonde angle . Eat everything .
WOMAN: It just came out of me . I said you love me the way a remote control loves a TV . As long as I switch every time
MELVIN: People who talk in metaphors can shampoo my crotch . Eat up .
LISA: Pay me back next week .
CAROL: I owe you . I told you today them 's the rules . Oh , excuse me , Melvin .
MELVIN: I 'm starving .
CAROL: Will you please take it ?
LISA: This way you take a cab home so you have time to get ready for the date .
CAROL: `` Ready '' is not my problem .
MELVIN: I 've got Jews at my table .
CAROL: It 's not your table . It 's the place 's table . Behave . This once , you can sit at someone else 's station . The two waitresses signal their protests .
MELVIN: How much more you got to eat ? Your appetite is n't as big as your noses , is it ?
WOMAN: What ? ! !
MAN: Let 's go The Woman starts to protest .
CAROL: Bryan says he does n't care how long you 've been coming you eve act like this again you 're barred for life . I 'm gon na miss the excitement , but I 'll handle it .
MELVIN: The table 's fine if it had some cholesterol on it . Two sausages , six bacon strips , fries , three eggs over easy and coffee .
CAROL: You 're gon na die soon with that diet , you know that ?
MELVIN: We 're all gon na die soon . I will . You will . It sure sounds like your son will .
CAROL: If you ever mention my son again , you will never be able to eat here again . Do you understand ? Give me some sign you understand or leave now . Do you understand me you crazy freak ? Do you ? ! ?
YOUNG MAN: What ?
CAROL: I I I do n't know You got me .
YOUNG MAN: Maybe you better check .
CAROL: Like what did you think I was going to do ?
BEVERLY: I 'm sorry . I was hearing just everything you were doing so I put these on to give you privacy . Carol now goes into her son 's room .
SPENCER: I 'm sorry .
CAROL: Do n't be silly . How bad ?
SPENCER: Not bad .
CAROL: You ca n't smoke He ca n't take smoke .
YOUNG MAN: Do n't apologize .
CAROL: That was n't an apology .
YOUNG MAN: No way . She brightens .
EVAN: Why is every customer surprised I ead books ?
DOUG: You read books ?
EVAN: Oh , wow ! I know this guy ! Look ! He even bought me dinner .
CARL: Look , I just ca n't . I promised Simon I 'd find him a model .
DOUG: Hey , how it 's goin '
EVAN: Hey , hi remember ?
CARL: I only need one .
EVAN: You picked me up , maybe a few weeks , I do n't know , some time ago . You were very flattering about our encounter .
CARL: Maybe just you and me but this is for a painting . I need a pretty face .
SIMON: Sorry , I was out in the studio doing some work and I forgot about our appointment .
VINCENT: Just kidding around . So much for love .
SIMON: Exactly what is your previous experience ?
VINCENT: How about that pose ? This is not fun Give me some direction .
SIMON: Nothing . I just watch till something strikes me . Do anything you think of try different thing . Until I say , `` hold that pose . '' Then just try and comfortably hold it .
VINCENT: The fact that you have n't said , `` hold it '' means I have n't done it ight is that correct ? I have n't done it right ?
SIMON: No Okay . What I do is watch and wait for , um You ever watch someone who does n't know you 're watching an old woman on a bus , kids going to school and you see this flash come over them and you know immediately that it has nothing to do with anything external that it 's in respond to a private thought they just had ? They are just sort of reale and more alive . And when you notice it so are you . If you look at someone long enough , you discover their humanity .
VINCENT: I know exactly what you mean .
SIMON: Hold it .
MELVIN: Clippity clop clippity clop she has to pretend she does n't hear me . Listening to the story from the upset friend now she drops off the cappuccino and smiles at the putzette who does n't even say , `` Thank you . '' No , the putzette wanted the whipped cream so back she goes and now she has to pass him again and it 's getting tougher to make believe .
CAROL: Okay .
MELVIN: I see the help judgement call .
CAROL: Just give yourself a little pep talk . `` Must try other people 's clean silverware as part of the fun of dining out . ''
MELVIN: What 's wrong with your son , anyway ?
CAROL: What do you care ? Melvin just looks at her .
MELVIN: No .
CAROL: An ear infection can send us to the emergency room maybe five , six times a month where I get whatever nine-year-old they just made a doctor . Nice chatting with you .
MELVIN: His name ?
CAROL: Spencer .
MELVIN: Okay .
CAROL: Spence . She exits .
SIMON: You can put on anything you want now . I might be sort of done here
DOUG: Lucky Vinnie he 's a painting .
VINCENT: So you 're practically finished , huh ?
SIMON: Yes well , there 's one more stage trying to figure out if it 's any good . Simon sneaks a look at the canvas from anothe
VINCENT: Wait I want to see the painting .
SIMON: Just a second he has to go .
VINCENT: Please ! ! NO ! ! !
SIMON: What 's the matter , sweetheart ?
DOUG: Yo . Simon turns to Vincent .
SIMON: Why are you doing this ?
VINCENT: No . No . No . Hey , that painting in there I just want to tell you Now Evan appears holding a brass hat rack .
EVAN: What are you doing ? Cruising him ?
RAY: Okay . So you call 911 and do n't leave your name even a dum geezer should know that emergency automatically pulls up your name . How come you make a mistake like that ?
MELVIN: How come you 're pretending to do cop work 'cause I do n't think you could find your ass if you were spotted the hole .
RAY: What ?
MELVIN: Just move on . No one here killed him .
RAY: Oh , is he dead ?
MELVIN: Ask him .
RAY: We will if we can and if we ca n't , we 'll come back and ask you again and again .
FRANK: So I 've got to get to the hospital . If you could take the dog just for tonight .
MELVIN: I 'm not saying nothing to you .
FRANK: Thanks for looking after him .
MELVIN: You 're dead ! !
FRANK: Put the solid red dots on three of them and the hold blue dots on two others Well , we 're not going to sell anything if they know we 're two weeks into a show and have no sales . No , you ca n't reduce a price at this stage We 're in free fall here . Any calls ?
JACKIE: We can see him .
FRANK: I 'll meet you in there .
JACKIE: How you doing , great one ?
SIMON: I have n't looked at myself yet . I figured I could tell from you eaction .
FRANK: Hey , hey Haaa bad but temporary . The nurses say it 's much better than you looked three weeks ago the hand will come back they 're sure
SIMON: Jackie , will you hand me the mirror ?
JACKIE: No .
SIMON: So , what 's new anyway ? How 's Verdell ?
FRANK: Your neighbor Udall is taking care of him .
SIMON: How could you do that ? He 'll hurt him .
FRANK: No , I promise not a chance . I own this guy . There was no one else . I 'm on the move too much . Trust me .
SIMON: You are very certain my dog is okay because you have no idea
FRANK: Yes . Your dog is fine , Simon .
SIMON: Okay , waiting gives the devil time . Now !
CAROL: So what are you doing with a dog ?
MELVIN: Suckered in . Set up . Pushed around .
CAROL: You 're not worried that someone might take him ?
MELVIN: Well , not until now fo Christ 's sake .
CAROL: Sorry .
MELVIN: It 's okay I 'll sit here .
CAROL: You know he 's a little dog . Next time , if Bryan 's not here , you can ing him in .
MELVIN: How old are you ?
CAROL: Oh , please
MELVIN: If I had to guess by your eyes , I 'd say you were fifty . Carol looks at him .
CAROL: And if I had to guess by you eyes . I 'd say you were kind . So , so much for eyes . But as long as you bring up age how old are you ?
MELVIN: Otherwise , you 're not ugly .
CAROL: Okay , pal I accept the compliment , but go easy my knees start a-knocking when you turn on the charm full blast .
MELVIN: What 's with the dark ?
CAROL: Dawn patrol major dawn patrol . My son had a full blown attack . And this time , for extra fun , they gave us the wrong antibiotics , so I get him home
MELVIN: No no leave it the acon 's for the dog .
CAROL: You all set here ?
MELVIN: It 's a beautiful day for our walk .
MELVIN: Do n't be like me , do n't you be like me . You stay just the way you are because you are a perfect man . I 'm gon na take you home and get you something to eat what you love .
FEMALE PASSERSBY: Ohhh . I 'd like to be treated like that .
MELVIN: Let 's go home and do some writing .
FRANK: How 's Verdell doing ?
MELVIN: He 's a pain in the ass .
FRANK: Simon 's home . I was sort of hoping you could keep the dog until he 's had a chance to think and adjust
MELVIN: It 's been five weeks anothe few wo n't kill me .
FRANK: No . He wants him back . He 'll be y tomorrow .
MELVIN: Okay by me . Frank exits .
SIMON: Could you take it just a little easy , Mr. Udall ?
MELVIN: I called . I never touched you . I did n't leave my name or nothing .
SIMON: Verdell ?
SIMON: Hi , sweetheart . Verdell is n't eager .
SIMON: No . Please , do n't force him .
JACKIE: You little stinker . He 's given you everything .
MELVIN: Over the dog an ugly dog .
DOCTOR: If you want to see me you will not do this . You will make an appointment
MELVIN: Explain to me how you can diagnose someone as `` obsessive compulsive disorder '' and then act like I have any choice in barging in .
DOCTOR: There 's not going to be a debate . You must leave .
MELVIN: You said you could help me what was that a tease ?
DOCTOR: I can help you if you take the esponsibility to keep regula app
MELVIN: You changed the room around
DOCTOR: Two years ago
MELVIN: Shhhhhhh . I do n't have this mountain of available time I got to get to my restaurant on time . Do you know how hard it is for me to be here ?
DOCTOR: Yes . No .
MELVIN: What if this is as good as it gets ? They look stricken . He exits .
CHERYL: What the heck are those for ?
MELVIN: No . No . Get Carol .
CHERYL: I 'm filling in . We do n't know if she 's coming back . She might have to get a job closer to home .
MELVIN: What are you trying to do to me ?
CHERYL: What the heck do you mean ?
MELVIN: Hey , elephant girl , call her o something just let her do my one meal here . I 'll pay whatever . I 'll wait . Do it ! ! !
MANAGER: Out . Be silent or leave .
MELVIN: I 'll be quiet . Just let me wait . No problem . Get her here have her get me two sausages , fou acon , two eggs over easy and coffee . I 'm not a prick here I 'm a great customer . This day is a disaster . I ca n't handle this , too .
MANAGER: Get out immediately or there 's going to be trouble .
MELVIN: There 's going to be trouble ? ? ?
BUSBOY: Connelly .
MELVIN: I 'm hungry . You 've upset my whole day . I have n't eaten .
CAROL: What are you doing here ?
MELVIN: This is not a sexist thing . If you were a waiter I would still be here saying
CAROL: Are you totally gone ? This is my private home
MELVIN: I am trying to keep emotions out of this . Even though this is an important issue to me and I have strong feelings about the subject .
CAROL: What subject ? That I was n't there to take crap from you and bring you eggs ? Do you have any control over how creepy you allow yourself to get ?
MELVIN: Yes , I do , as a matter of fact and to prove it I have not gotten personal and you have . Why are n't you at work ? You 're not sick you do n't look sick just very tired and bitter .
CAROL: My son is sick , okay ?
MELVIN: What about your mother ?
CAROL: How do you know about my mother ?
MELVIN: I hear you talk when I 'm waiting ! ! !
CAROL: Sorry , honey I 'll be right there .
MELVIN: How ya doing ? Spencer just stares at him .
CAROL: Sorry . There is a limit , Melvin , and I ca n't handle you teaching my son manners .
SPENCER: 104.9
CAROL: We are going to treat ourselves to a cab ride .
SCHOOL KIDS: Melvin , wait ! Melvin , wait ! Melvin , wait ! He turns to face them .
MELVIN: Shut up , kids !
CAROL: Melvin give us a lift . We 've got to go see our friends at the hospital .
MELVIN: I 'll ride up front . Cover you mouth when you cough , kid .
CAROL: Brooklyn Presbyterian Hospital , please and quickly please .
MELVIN: Yeah , yeah any chance you 'll get back to work today ?
CAROL: No ! ! ! Stay away from me !
JACKIE: I feel terrible that I have to Simon ? Forget about the dog for a second . Simon forces his attention to Jackie .
SIMON: Sorry . What are those cards ?
JACKIE: Frank 's idea . He thought I should have notes so I did this right maintained focus , did n't get emotional and tried not to terrify you .
SIMON: Terrify me ?
JACKIE: See , he 's right . I need the cards . Simon , you 're broke .
SIMON: Here , baby what is it , Verdell ? You miss the tough guy Well , here I am , you little pissant mop , happy to see me ? How about another ride down the chute ? Oh , God I do n't mean it , sweetheart I 'm sorry . I know Verdell hides behind a chair .
JACKIE: Frank loves you . You know that ut I 've spoken to him and he feels that as a businessman , with limited esources
SIMON: I 'll be able to keep my apartment and studio , wo n't I ? Just tell me .
FEMALE EXECUTIVE: Now , on a pleasant note , our son got accepted at Brown . My husband
MELVIN: Great , wonderful . I do n't need you to wait with me .
ZOE: I ca n't resist . You usually move through here so quickly and I have so many questions I want to ask you . You have no idea what you work means to me .
MELVIN: What 's it mean ?
ZOE: That somebody out there knows what it 's like to be in here .
MELVIN: Oh God , this is like a nightmare .
ZOE: Aw come on , just a couple of questions how hard is that ?
MELVIN: I think of a man and take away eason and accountability .
CAROL: Hello ? Hello ?
DR. BETTES: Mrs. Connelly . I 'm Martin Bettes Dr. Bettes .
CAROL: Not your name what are you telling me your name for ! ! Where is he ?
DR. BETTES: He 's in the bathroom He 's fine .
CAROL: Tell me how bad it is . I let him go out last night when it was so cool without an overshirt just and underone with just the straps and I know better and I let him talk me into it . He was whining and you do n't need this . Give me a second to catch hold .
SPENCER: Hi Did you know there are doctors who come to your house ?
CAROL: No , I did n't . So why are you h
BEVERLY: I did n't know you had a secret admire .
CAROL: Huh ?
BEVERLY: You met the gift .
SPENCER: He 's good And I 'm an expert on doctors .
CAROL: Stay out of this Doctor ?
DR. BETTES: My wife is Melvin Udall 's publisher . She says I have to take great care of this guy because you 're urgently needed back at work . What work do you do ?
CAROL: I 'm a waitress .
BEVERLY: In Manhattan .
DR. BETTES: In here . A NURSE enters .
NURSE: Sorry it took so long . I do n't know Brooklyn .
DR. BETTES: It 's okay , Terry . Tell the lab I 'd like the report ack today .
CAROL: You 're going to get the results today ? !
DR. BETTES: How long has he been having problems ?
CAROL: Since forever .
DR. BETTES: Have they done blood tests on him ?
CAROL: Yes .
DR. BETTES: Only in the emergency room or when he was well .
CAROL: Emergency room only .
DR. BETTES: Have they done skin testing fo allergies ?
CAROL: No .
DR. BETTES: They have n't done the standard scratch test . Where they make small injections into the skin ?
CAROL: No . I asked . They said it 's not covered under my plan . And it 's not necessary anyway .
DR. BETTES: It 's amazing these things were n't done .
CAROL: Fucking H.M.O . bastard piece of shit I 'm sorry forgive me .
DR. BETTES: No . Actually , I think that 's their technical name .
CAROL: Once the tests come back , is there someone I can reach in your office for the results ?
DR. BETTES: Me . My home number is on this card .
CAROL: His home number .
DR. BETTES: Water Nobody told you it might e a good idea to remove the carpeting and drapes in Spencer 's oom ?
CAROL: No . She starts towards Spencer 's room .
DR. BETTES: You do n't have to do it this second it 's not dangerous o anything . It 's just something that 's advisable . Look , there 's a lot to be checked but Hey , your son is going to feel a good deal better at the very least
CAROL: Doc ! ! ! So listen , you got ta let me know about the additional costs one way or the other we 'll
DR. BETTES: They 're considerable . But Mr. Udall wants to be billed .
NORA: You poor , poor man .
SIMON: Let 's use just one poor , okay ? Anyway , dear , thanks fo everything . Forgive my recent crankiness and as soon as things are on track again I 'll call .
NORA: Who 's going to walk Verdell ? Simon had n't thought of this either .
SIMON: No , no .
MELVIN: Is he dead yet ?
NORA: No ! Would there be any way fo you to be willing to walk his dog for him ?
MELVIN: Absolutely .
NORA: Not just today Uh , could you do it until , until he gets ack on his feet ?
MELVIN: Sure thing .
NORA: You 're a wonderful man . Two o'clock is a good time . Here 's the key in case he 's asleep . Open the curtains for him , so he sees God 's beautiful work and knows that even things like this happen for the best .
MELVIN: Where 'd they teach you to talk like this some Panama City `` Sailor want to hump-hump bar '' ? Or was today getaway day and you last shot at his whiskey . Sell crazy some place else we 're all stocked up here .
CAROL: There is a seriously goofy man ehind this . You are not allowed to block out that fact .
BEVERLY: Do you really want to go back to the runt doctors in Emergency who keep telling us they ca n't help ?
CAROL: It lets a crazy man into ou lives .
BEVERLY: Come on . Why fight when we know how it will come out . This is n't like stocking or a string of pearls . You do n't send this one ack .
SIMON: Hello ? yes sure finally , huh ? Why , `` finally '' ? Because I called you so many times . Maybe
MELVIN: Maybe I 'll bring him some food by .
SIMON: Thank you for walking him . Simon wheels away from Melvin .
MELVIN: It smells like shit in here ?
SIMON: Go away .
MELVIN: That cleaning woman does n't
SIMON: Please , just leave .
MELVIN: Where are all your queer party friends ?
SIMON: Get out .
MELVIN: Nellie , you 're a disgrace to depression .
SIMON: Rot in hell , Melvin .
MELVIN: No need to stop being a lady quit worrying you 'll be back on your knees in no time .
SIMON: Is this fun for you ? Well , you lucky devil It just gets bette and better . I am losing my apartment and Frank wants me to promise to paint hotter subjects and to beg my parents , who have n't called , for help and I wo n't . And I do n't want to paint anymore .
MELVIN: Well , I 'll do one thing for you that might cheer you up .
SIMON: Get out .
MELVIN: Do n't piss on a gift , tough guy . You want to know why the dog prefers me it 's not affection . It 's a trick .
SIMON: Oh , my gosh .
MELVIN: Now we 'll both call him .
SIMON: Come on , sweetheart
MELVIN: Yo , yo , yo
SIMON: Would you leave now , please ?
MELVIN: Stupid dog . I do n't get it .
CAROL: Uh , Udall ?
MELVIN: I was working ca n't you just drop me a thank-you note ?
CAROL: That 's not why I 'm here though you have no idea what it 's like to have a real conversation with a doctor about Spencer
MELVIN: Note . Put it in the note .
CAROL: Why did yo do this for me ?
MELVIN: To get you back at work so you can wait on me .
CAROL: But you do have some idea how strange that sounds ? ? ? I 'm worried that you did this ecause
MELVIN: You waiting for me to say something ? What sort of thing do you want ? Look , I 'll be at the restaurant tomorrow .
CAROL: I do n't think I can wait until tomorrow . This needs clearing up .
MELVIN: What needs clearing up ?
CAROL: I 'm not going to sleep with you . I will never , ever sleep with you . Never . Not ever .
MELVIN: I 'm sorry . We do n't open for the no-sex oaths until 9 a.m .
CAROL: I 'm not kidding .
MELVIN: Okay ! ! ! ! Anything else ? ! ?
CAROL: Just how grateful I am . Her mission completed she turns .
MELVIN: So you 'll be at work ?
CAROL: Yes .
MELVIN: I took a chance you were up . Simon walks painfully back to a chair .
SIMON: Thanks .
MELVIN: I have never been so tired in my life . Okay , if I sit here ?
SIMON: Got any easier questions ?
MELVIN: I have n't been sleeping . I have n't been clear or felt like myself . I 'm in trouble . Some son of a bitch is burning my bridges ehind my back But the tiredness boy Not just sleepy .
SIMON: But sick nauseous where everything looks distorted and everything inside just aches when you can barely get up the will to complain .
MELVIN: Yeah
BEVERLY: You 're not still writing that thank-you note ?
CAROL: I 'm on the last page . How do you spell conscience ?
BEVERLY: C-o-n-s-c-i-e-n-c-e . I got Sean from the bakery to baby-sit so let 's go out .
CAROL: I still do n't feel safe leaving Spencer with someone . How do you spell it again ?
BEVERLY: Spencer is okay . You 'd bette start finding something else to do with your free time . If you ca n't feel good about this break and step out a little You ought to get Mr. Udall to send you over a psychiatrist .
CAROL: I do n't need one 'cause I know what 's really going on here . I have to finish this letter o I 'll go nuts . This ca n't be right con- science .
BEVERLY: Carol . What ?
CAROL: I do n't know It 's very strange not feeling that stupid panic thing inside you all the time . Without that you just start thinking about yourself and what does that ever get anybody . Today , on the bus there was this adorable couple and I felt myself giving them a dirty look I had no idea everything was
BEVERLY: Go ahead .
CAROL: moving in the wrong direction Away from when I even remembered what it was like to have a man to anything hold fucking sorry hands with , for Christ 's sake . I was feeling like really bad that Dr. Bettes is married . Which is probably why I make poo Spencer hug me more than he wants to Like the poor kid does n't have enough problems . He has to make up for his mom not getting any . Oh , boy . Who needs these thoughts ?
BEVERLY: Spencer 's doing fine . So what are you saying , that you 're frustr
CAROL: Leave me be ! Why are you doing this ? Why are you picking at my sores What is it that you want ? You want what ? What 's with you ? I hope getting me thinking of everything that 's wrong when all I want is to not do this has some purpose . What is it , Mom ? No kidding .
BEVERLY: I want us to go out . A beat , then .
CAROL: Okay .
SEAN: Looks like fun .
CAROL: Okay we 're out of here . I love you .
SPENCER: Uh-huh . Carol exits .
BEVERLY: Nice to get out , is n't it ?
CAROL: Do n't get it wet .
LISA: You almost have me liking him . You sure come from the heart . I never knew what you went through with everything .
CAROL: I wanted him to know how much he 'd done . Can you believe he 's eating with someone .
MELVIN: It 's not my dog and this Simon seems to have enough on his mind but he did throw up twice and his spark is off .
FRANK: Sure take him to the vet .
MELVIN: I did . And his stomach is out of whack . So they need him for a couple of days .
FRANK: Do it .
CAROL: Melvin .
MELVIN: What 's this ?
CAROL: A thank-you note for what you did for me .
FRANK: She 's nice .
MELVIN: Really nice . Should n't that be a good thing telling someone , 'no thanks required . '
FRANK: It looks like it really went over . You 're sure making the rounds . Simon says you brought him soup last night . I hope he does n't write you a note .
MELVIN: `` What ? '' Look at you You sense a mark .
FRANK: Hey you called me I
MELVIN: About a dog .
FRANK: Yeah , but it 's all about Simon now you helped with the dog And now there are other things . I 'm just as concerned as you are about Simon .
MELVIN: Concerned . I 'm just the hall monitor here .
FRANK: It 's not only financial assistance . What he 's got to do is go to Baltimore tomorrow and ask his parents for money . It 's not going to happen on the phone .
MELVIN: Yeah . If his parents are alive they 've got to help those are the rules . Good .
FRANK: Yes . And tomorrow ? I have a high maintenance selling painter coming through So I 'm out . Can you take him ?
MELVIN: Think white and get serious . Carol enters scene .
FRANK: Take my car a convertible . Do you drive ?
MELVIN: Like the wind but I 'm not doing it .
CAROL: Getting loud , getting loud .
MELVIN: He wants me to take his car and his client to Baltimore .
CAROL: I want your life for a minute where my big problem is someone offers me a free convertible so I can get out of this city . She exits . Frank prepares to depart .
MELVIN: Okay . I 'll take him . Get him packed ready tomorrow morning .
FRANK: If there 's some mental health foundation that raises money to help people like you be sure to let me know .
MELVIN: Last word freak .
CAROL: So . Anything else ?
MELVIN: Yes . I 'm going to give my quee neighbor a lift to Baltimore .
CAROL: Okay .
MELVIN: Hey , what I did for you is working out ?
CAROL: What you did changed my life . She offers him the note .
MELVIN: No no thank you notes .
CAROL: Well , part of what I said in this entire history of my life which you wo n't read is that somehow you 've done more for my mother , my son and me , than anyone else eve has And that makes you the most important , surprising , generous person I 've ever met and that you e in our daily prayers forever .
MELVIN: Lovely .
CAROL: I also wrote one part I wrote I 'm sorry I was talking about I was sorry when I got mad at you when you came over and you told my son that he ought to answer back so I wrote that . I was sorry for busting you on that and I 'm sorry for busting in on you that night when I said I was never I was sorry and I 'm sorry every time your food was cold and that you had to wait two seconds for a coffee filler
MELVIN: Nice of you thank you .
CAROL: Thank you .
MELVIN: Now I want you to do something for me .
CAROL: Oh , I 'm sorry Did n't I say , `` what ? '' I thought I said , `` what ? '' What ?
MELVIN: I want you to go on this trip .
CAROL: No , sir
MELVIN: I ca n't do this alone . I 'm afraid he 'll pull the stiff one eye on me . I need you to chaperon . Separate everything but cars . You said you liked convertibles . Now I 'm on the hook .
CAROL: The stiff one eye ?
MELVIN: Two days .
CAROL: I ca n't . I work .
MELVIN: You take off when you have to .
CAROL: My son .
MELVIN: Bettes tells me he 's doing fine .
CAROL: Melvin , I 'd rather not .
MELVIN: What 's that got to do with it ?
CAROL: Funny , I thought it was a strong point .
MELVIN: Write me a note and ai n't she sweet . I need a hand and where 'd she go .
CAROL: Are you saying accepting your help obligates me ! ?
MELVIN: Is there another way to see it ?
CAROL: No .
MELVIN: Woo-woo .
CAROL: Hello ?
MELVIN: Are you still coming ?
CAROL: Yes . Melvin visibly relaxes .
MELVIN: Just south to Baltimore , Maryland . So I know what you 're going to ask next . That you might ask I 'm not certain .
CAROL: There 's there 's no need to ing anything dressy or I mean I did n't know if we 'd be eating at any restaurant that have dress codes .
MELVIN: Oh . We might . Yes . We can . Let 's .
CAROL: Okay , gotcha . What did you think I was going to ask ?
MELVIN: Whether crabs are in season there now
CAROL: Oh . Okay , then Melvin . Good night .
BEVERLY: How was it talking to him ?
CAROL: Stop treating this like I 'm going away with a man . He 's just going to say those crappy , sick , complaining , angry things to me . I hate this , Mom I hate this . He 's a freak show the worst person I ever met .
BEVERLY: Well , maybe he has nice friends .
CAROL: You stand there and I 'll wave to you from the back window . As she boards the bus .
BEVERLY: Call me as soon as you 're settled .
CAROL: I love you .
VETERINARIAN: Anything unusual in the dog 's diet ?
MELVIN: No . Everybody gets their own cage ?
VETERINARIAN: Certainly .
MELVIN: Put him in with that one , not that one Builds his confidence .
FRANK: I 'm sorry that I 'm not taking you .
SIMON: So am I , Frank .
MELVIN: Soak it up it 's your last chance at a hug for a few days .
CAROL: Hi .
MELVIN: Thanks for being on time Carol , the waitress , this is Simon , the fag .
CAROL: Hello Oh , my God , who did that to you ?
SIMON: I , uh I was attacked . Walked in on people robbing me . I was hospitalized . I almost died .
MELVIN: Let 's do the small talk in the car . Load up . Carol puts her bag in the car .
CAROL: It 's okay . No problem . Where should we sit ?
MELVIN: I uh , I Well , there is no place cards or anything .
CAROL: Let me go in back . You look like you need all the room you can manage .
SIMON: That 's very thoughtful .
MELVIN: Never a break . Never .
CAROL: Thanks , Melvin .
MELVIN: Welcome .
CAROL: I do n't know the last time I 've een out of the city Hey , my arms are tanning . I used to tan great . We got ta stop soon so'se I can check on Spencer .
SIMON: I 'm sorry I ca n't hear you . I ca n't turn my head all the way yet tell her we ca n't hear her .
MELVIN: Does n't matter . She 's enjoying herself . Consider it part of the music .
CAROL: I 'm sure , Simon , they did something real off for you to feel this way But when it comes to your partners or your kid things will always be off for you unless you set it straight . Maybe this thing happened to you just to give you that chance .
MELVIN: Nonsense !
CAROL: Anybody here who 's interested in what Melvin has to say raise thei hands .
SIMON: Do you want to know what happened with my parents ?
CAROL: Yes . I really would .
SIMON: Well
CAROL: No , let me pull over so I can pay full attention . Car pulling over toward parking spot .
SIMON: Well , I always painted . Always . And my mother always encouraged it . She was sort of fabulous about it actually and she used to I was too young to think there was anything at all wrong with it and she was very natural . She used to pose nude for me and I thought or assumed my father was aware of it .
MELVIN: This stuff is pointless .
CAROL: Hey you let him
MELVIN: You like sad stories you want mine .
CARL: . Go ahead , Simon . Really . Please . Do n't let him stop you . Ignore him .
SIMON: Okay . Well , one day my fathe came in on one of those painting sessions when I was nine and he just started screaming at her at us at evil . And
MELVIN: my father did n't leave his oom for 11 years he hit my hand with a yardstick if I made a mistake on the piano .
CAROL: Go ahead , Simon . Your fathe walked in on you and was yelling and really , come on .
SIMON: I was trying to defend my mothe and make peace , in the lamest way . I said , `` she 's not naked it 's art . '' And then he started hitting me . And he beat me unconscious . After that he talked to me less and less he knew before I left for college , my dad came into my oom . He held out his hand . It was filled with money . A big wad of sweaty money . And he said to me , `` I do n't want you to ever come back . '' I grabbed him and I hugged him He turns and walked out .
CAROL: Well , you know I still stay what I said . You 've got to get past it all when it comes to you parents . We all have these horro stories to get over . Melvin shifts INTO the FRAME .
MELVIN: That 's not true . Some of us have great stories pretty stories that take place at lakes with oats and friends and noodle salad . Just not anybody in this car . But lots of people that 's their story good times and noodle salad and that 's what makes it hard . Not that you had it bad but being that pissed that so many had it good .
CAROL: No .
SIMON: Not it at all , really .
MELVIN: Not at all , huh ? ! Let 's go to the hotel . And if you 're lucky tomorrow Dad will give you anothe wad of sweaty money .
CAROL: No answer Maybe we should just drive there tomorrow . Can I have that one ?
MELVIN: Yes sure . I 'll take the sofa .
CAROL: Hello Hi , Spencer Why are you out of breath ? You did ? ! ? That is great So great So no , wait a second , Spence
MELVIN: Can I ask you a personal question ? Simon laughs loudly in apprehension squared .
SIMON: Melvin
MELVIN: Would n't your lie be a lot easie if you were not
SIMON: You consider your life easy .
MELVIN: I give you that one Nice packing .
CAROL: My son was outside playing soccer . I never saw him playing ball . Come on , you guys take me out for a good time Take me out dancing .
MELVIN: Dancing ?
SIMON: I ca n't , I 'm exhausted .
CAROL: I do n't blame you This is a monumental first day out You sad or anything ?
SIMON: No Nervous . It would be very ough , Carol , if you were n't along .
CAROL: What a nice compliment .
MELVIN: I 'm going to jump in the shower . I 'll be right with you .
VALET: Good evening , sir .
MELVIN: They sell hard shell crabs here ?
VALET: Yes .
HEAD WAITER: Good evening .
MELVIN: Hi . You have hard shells , right ?
CAROL: Stop asking everyone .
MELVIN: Just him and that 's it . Okay , you can answer we 've worked it out .
HEAD WAITER: Yes , we do And I can give you a tie and jacket .
MELVIN: What ?
HEAD WAITER: They require a tie and jacket but we have some available .
MELVIN: No I 'm not wearing that and just in case you were going to ask I 'm not going to let you inject me with plaque either .
CAROL: You promised a nice place ca n't you just You have these dry cleaned all the time , do n't you ?
HEAD WAITER: Actually , I do n't think so .
MELVIN: Wait here .
SALESMAN: Good evening .
MELVIN: I need a coat and tie .
SALESMAN: Come on in .
MELVIN: No .
SALESMAN: No ?
MELVIN: That jacket and give me a tie .
VALET #2: Good evening .
MELVIN: You have hard shells ?
VALET #2: I 'm not sure .
MELVIN: Everyone else says you do .
VALET #2: Then I guess we do .
HEAD WAITER: Shall I get her for you ?
MELVIN: No , it 's all right . I 'll just watch .
CAROL: My drink is following me .
MELVIN: I 've been thinking about that since you brought it up before .
CAROL: And ?
MELVIN: No I do n't get this place . They make me buy an outfit but they let you wear a house dress . I do n't get it .
MELVIN: No . Wait . What ? Why ? I did n't mean it . You got ta sit down . You can still give me the dirty look just sit down and give it to me .
CAROL: Melvin , pay me a compliment I need one and quick You have no idea how much what you said just hurt my feelings .
MELVIN: That monominute somebody gets that you need them they threaten to go away . Never fails .
CAROL: That 's not compliment , Melvin That 's just trying to sound smart so I feel stupid A compliment is something nice about somebody else Now or never .
MELVIN: Okay . He waves her down .
CAROL: And mean it
MELVIN: Can we order first ?
CAROL: Fries .
MELVIN: One baked one fries .
STARTLED WAITER: I 'll tell your waiter .
MELVIN: Okay , I got a real great compliment for you and it 's true .
CAROL: I am so afraid you 're about to say something awful
MELVIN: Do n't be pessimistic . It 's not your style . Okay Here I goes Clearly a mistake . I have this what ? Ailment And my doctor a shrink who I used to see all the time he says 50 or 60 percent of the time a pill can really help . I hate pills . Very dangerous things , pills . `` Hate , '' I am using the word `` hate '' about pills . My compliment is that when you came to my house that time and told me how you 'd never well , you were there , you know The next morning I started taking these pills .
CAROL: I do n't quite get how that 's a compliment for me .
MELVIN: You make me want to be a bette man .
CAROL: That 's maybe the best compliment of my life .
MELVIN: Then I 've really overshot here 'cause I was aiming at just enough to keep you from walking out . Carol laughs .
CAROL: So how are you doing with those pills ? Well , I hopahopahopa .
MELVIN: Takes months to know They work little by little . Talking like this is exhausting .
CAROL: Have you ever let a romantic moment make you do something you know is stupid ?
MELVIN: Never .
CAROL: Here 's the trouble with never .
MELVIN: You do n't owe me that .
CAROL: That was n't payment . When you first came into breakfast , when I saw you I thought you were handsome Then , of course , you spoke So now that your soft li ' l underbelly is all exposed . Tell me , why did you bring me ?
MELVIN: Well , ah that 's a personal question .
CAROL: Tell me even if you 're scared . Tell me why you wanted me here . It 's okay . She kisses him again .
MELVIN: There are lots of reason I had a thought that if you had sex with Simon it might
CAROL: Sex with Simon ?
MELVIN: It 's one idea
CAROL: That 's why you brought me ? Look at me ! Is that really why you ought me Like I 'm a what and I owe you what ? !
MELVIN: I do n't know why I brought you that idea occurred to me is all It came out first Hey , you kiss him me He says he loves you . You two hit it off . But you do n't want to fine Forget what I said about sex with Simon . It was a mistake .
CAROL: I 'll never forget you said it .
MELVIN: It was a mistake . But she has already turned away and exits the estaurant Melvin alone and miserable .
PARENTS' VOICE: Hi . This is Fred Bishop and Betty . We are sorry to be unable to take your call right now . Please leave a message and we 'd appreciate you including the time/date and purpose of your call . ( Simon mouths the word `` date , '' then Betty speaks before the beep Bye-bye .
SIMON: Ah , this is Simon I 'm here in town and , folks , you have n't come home later than 10 in your lives . Please pick up really Okay I 'm going to call again in the morning . I need to see you . Or , at least get you to answer the phone .
CAROL: Our room . I do n't want to see him and he 's not going to come knocking on your door .
SIMON: Can you not be violent ?
CAROL: I do n't think so . You need help with the pants ?
SIMON: No ! ! !
CAROL: I 'm going to take a big bath and order a big meal .
SIMON: Uh-huh
CAROL: I 'm sorry are you okay ?
SIMON: Well , considering everything 's horrible and tomorrow I have to face my parents Do n't ask me I 'm sick of my own complaints got to get me a new set of thoughts .
CAROL: Why ? What have you been thinking about ?
SIMON: How to die , mostly .
CAROL: Can you believe in our little mix you 're the good roommate .
SIMON: Good night .
CAROL: Good night .
SIMON: Hold it . He leaves the bed .
CAROL: No Absolutely not . I 'm shye than you think . I give the wrong impression sometimes and
SIMON: I have n't even been thinking about sketching for weeks .
CAROL: Stop staring . Do a vase .
SIMON: But you 're beautiful your skin glows .
CAROL: Thanks . But I just want to take a ath and
SIMON: That long neck the line of you you 're porcelain you ack goes on forever . You 're classic you 're why cavemen chiseled on walls
CAROL: All right , cut me a break .
MELVIN: So then , the next thing I know , she 's sitting right next to me , and then , well , it 's not right to go into the details , but I screwed up . I got nervous . I said the wrong thing and if I had n't , I could be in bed now with a woman who if you could make her smile you got a life . Instead , I 'm here with you , no offense , a moron pushing the last legal drug .
SIMON: No . No . This is great , this is so great . I ca n't get the angle with this cast .
MELVIN: Did you have sex with her ?
CAROL: To hell with sex .
SIMON: I just love her . How 're you doing ? Melvin reacts .
MELVIN: I get why you 're angry . It 's no snap to explain why I was like that , but let 's not try to do it on the run
SIMON: so Mom . Truly no grudges truly . A little odd that you did n't come to see me when you heard I was hurt , but the important thing I want you to know is your son is happy . I 'm working again . I 'll make do I do n't want a thing . Would n't take it if it was offered . I 'll drop you a note from wherever I land and then it 's up to you . I hope we patch things up but know that if we do n't , I wish you both the very est I ca n't hear you . You heard me , though , right ? Good take good care . 'Bye .
MELVIN: Now he 's going to want to stay . And they 'll want to take a ide to the lake or whatever . So it 's a good five hours back . It gives us a chance to take it easy and
SIMON: I 'm going back with you .
CAROL: But what about
SIMON: I 'll take care of myself
MELVIN: What are you talking about ? You got real problems .
SIMON: I know . I 'm a little bit nervous . Suddenly everything seems so easy . Carol , a load has been lifted .
CAROL: One night with me !
SIMON: You think you 're kidding . Melvin stalks out .
MELVIN: Aww Jesus ! No choice . Carol walks up to Simon in the car .
CAROL: I got a gift for you . She hands him a base ball cap .
MELVIN: Nothing like no choice to make you feel at home .
CAROL: Let me see Ahh , gorgeous !
MELVIN: Do it then . Get the dog picked up . I ca n't believe you let it stay there . Melvin hangs up the phone .
SIMON: Another place where ?
MELVIN: Does it matter ?
CAROL: I do n't want to hear that music ight now .
MELVIN: What do you mean ? You said you liked it .
CAROL: I do n't .
MELVIN: This one has a special meaning .
CAROL: It 's your car but I do n't want to hear it . If that means anything .
MELVIN: Here are the keys to my apartment . I 'm going to park you in my place while I take Carol home .
CAROL: I 'll take a bus .
MELVIN: I 'll take you why not ?
CAROL: I do n't care what you did for me . I do n't think I want to know you anymore all you do is make me feel badly about myself . You have my number .
SIMON: I love you Let him take you home .
CAROL: Do n't want to . I love you .
MELVIN: Do n't say anything .
SIMON: What are you talking about ?
MELVIN: They took your place furnished . Jackie said she grabbed you personal stuff they were supposed to set you up here . There 's this extra room I never use . It gets good light . No other answer really . Simon follows .
SIMON: Thank you , Melvin . You overwhelm me .
MELVIN: They did a nice job Cozy , huh ?
SIMON: I love you .
MELVIN: I 'll tell you , buddy , I 'd be the luckiest guy alive if that did it for me .
SIMON: Sorry , did n't know you were awake . I just thought Verdell should n't get too used to sleeping in here 'cause then
MELVIN: Look , we both want the dog and
SIMON: Should I get it ?
SIMON: Hello . It 's me . He took me in . Did you know ? Hold on , I 'll get him for you . He walks back to Melvin 's room .
MELVIN: Here . Take the dog . As he speeds him out
SIMON: Good luck .
MELVIN: Hello .
CAROL: Yeah Well
MELVIN: How you doing ?
CAROL: I can trust my brain .
MELVIN: That seems like a good choice .
CAROL: I do n't know whether I 'm being sensible or hard on you .
MELVIN: The two might go together .
CAROL: See . There 's an example . I do n't know whether you 're being cute o crazy now .
MELVIN: Cute .
CAROL: You do n't have to answe everything I say . Just listen to me . Okay ? He nods his head , `` yes . ''
MELVIN: Okay to say something now ?
CAROL: Go ahead .
MELVIN: I should 've danced with you .
CAROL: Okay . Good-bye .
MELVIN: So long .
SIMON: I 'm coming .
MELVIN: I 'm a great guy `` extraordinary '' and she does n't want contact with me . I 'm dying here .
SIMON: Because you love her ?
MELVIN: No and you 're supposed to be sensitive and sharp .
SIMON: Okay you tell me why `` You 're dying here . ''
MELVIN: I do n't know Let me sleep on it and figure it out . Because I 'm stuck ! Ca n't go back to what I had She 's evicted me from my life .
SIMON: Did you like it that much ?
MELVIN: It was better than this Look , you , I 'm very intelligent . If you 're going to give me advice o conversation or consolation o hope , you got to be better than you 're doing . If you ca n't be at least momentarily interesting than shut the hell up . I 'm drowning and you 're describing water .
SIMON: Picking on me wo n't help .
MELVIN: Well , if that 's true then I 'm eally in trouble .
SIMON: But you know where you 're lucky ?
MELVIN: Absolutely not .
SIMON: You know who you want . I 'll take your seat any day . So do something do n't sleep on it go over there . I do n't think anybody should ever sleep on anything it 's not always good to let things calm down .
MELVIN: Hey I 'm charged here . But she might kill me for showing up this late .
SIMON: Then get in your jammies and I 'll ead you a story I think you 've got a chance . The only real enemy you have is her ability to think logically the best thing you have going for you is you willingness to humiliate yourself if it gives you one chance in whatever so go catch her off- guard .
MELVIN: Okay . Thanks a lot . Here I go .
SIMON: What 's wrong ?
MELVIN: I forgot to lock the door .
CAROL: What do you want , Melvin ?
MELVIN: Were you asleep ?
CAROL: What do you want ?
MELVIN: 'Cause if you were asleep I 'm sorry . And you could be grouchy .
CAROL: Grouchy ?
MELVIN: 'Cause of being woken up , and it would make my job impossible . So then I would n't even try .
CAROL: What job ?
MELVIN: Were you asleep ?
CAROL: What are you doing here ?
MELVIN: I 'm sorry I woke you some othe time . He half turns to leave .
CAROL: I was n't asleep ! !
MELVIN: What a break
CAROL: Is it a secret what you 're doing here ?
MELVIN: I had to see you
CAROL: Because
MELVIN: It relaxes me I 'd feel bette just sitting on the curb in front of your house than anyplace else I can think of or imagine .
MELVIN: Wait a minute , I 'm overstating here , maybe the inside stairs . I do n't want to sit with my feet in the gutter . What does that serve ? It only But suddenly Carl is shouting to the heavens .
CAROL: Stop it ! ! Why ca n't I have a normal boyfriend ? ? ? Why ? Get out of here . Just a regular boyfriend who does n't go nuts on me
BEVERLY: Everybody wants that , dear it does n't exit Sorry did n't mean to interrupt .
MELVIN: Boyfriend ?
CAROL: Oh , come on in and try not to ruin everything by being you .
MELVIN: Maybe we could live without the wise cracks . She looks at him then
CAROL: Maybe we could
MELVIN: It feels a little confined here . Let 's take a walk .
CAROL: See . It 's four in the morning . A walk sounds a little screwy to me , if you do n't mind .
MELVIN: If you need an excuse , there 's a akery on the corner . There 's a shot it 'll open soon that way we 're not screwy we 're just two people who like warm rolls .
CAROL: Okay .
CAROL: I 'm sorry , Melvin but whateve this is is not going to work .
MELVIN: I 'm feeling I 've been feeling etter .
CAROL: Melvin , even though it may seem that way now you do n't know me all that well I 'm not the answer for you .
MELVIN: Hey , I 've got a great compliment for you .
CAROL: You know what ? I
MELVIN: Just let me talk . I 'm the only one on the face of the earth who realizes that you 're the greatest woman on earth . I 'm the only one who appreciates how amazing you are in every single thing you do in every single thought you have in how you are with Spencer Spence in how you say what you mean and how you almost always mean something that 's all about being straight and good
MELVIN: I think most people miss that about you and I watch wondering how they can watch you bring them food and clear their dishes and never get that they have just met the greatest woman alive And the fact that I get it makes me feel great about me ! You got a real good reason to walk out on that ?
CAROL: No ! It 's certainly not . No I do n't think so . No .
MELVIN: I 'm gon na grab you . I did n't mean it to be a question . I 'm gon na grab you .
CAROL: Warm rolls
KETCHAM: Aw-shit !
RATH: Just a little ways . Up to those trees .
KETCHAM: Oh , fuck it .
RATH: Sure .
KETCHAM: Funny , I 've never been a talker . My wife was always getting on me about that . 'Say what you feel , tell me what 's bothering you , you ve got to talk to me . ' I never would though . Not really .
RATH: Why not ?
KETCHAM: I do n't know . Part of me wanted to but part of me always said , 'What 's she going to be able to do ? ' I do n't know . Maybe I did n't trust her .
RATH: It 's possible .
KETCHAM: You 're pretty famous are n't you ?
RATH: I hope not .
KETCHAM: I know this may seem like a strange question , but can I ask you how much the contract was for not to insult you or anything , I know you 're a professional , but just for me , I was just wondering .
RATH: It 's a common question .
KETCHAM: Oh yeah ? I guess we still need to see that price tag . Like art , ight ? You hang some painting that looks like baby-puke in you living room only if it costs a undle .
RATH: A dime .
KETCHAM: One hundred thousand ? That 's it ? Jesus Is that a lot ?
RATH: Average .
KETCHAM: Shit oh well . Ketcham laughs .
RATH: Taken .
KETCHAM: 'Taken . ' That 's nice . When I had someone taken I would call ou General Contractor , transfer the money and as soon as I hung up the phone I forgot about them .
RATH: Everyone who plays the game knows the rules .
KETCHAM: That 's exactly what I told myself .
RATH: Do n't know . That 's how it works .
KETCHAM: That 's what our General Contracto told us but how can you trust someone like that ?
RATH: Right .
KETCHAM: I thought that I would be thinking about Margaret , or work , or that I 'd be having these deep , profound and depressing thoughts but I 'm not . I 'm trying to think really profound thoughts , but I ca n't . It seems very funny to me .
RATH: What are you thinking about ?
KETCHAM: I 'm thinking about Moonpies . Ai n't that funny ? I have n't had a Moonpie since I was ten years old . Right now , I 'm thinking how much I 'd love one .
RATH: And an R.C .
KETCHAM: Can I ask you something ?
RATH: Go ahead .
KETCHAM: What do other guys do ?
RATH: Everyone handles it differently . Some are ready , some are not .
KETCHAM: Do they get down on their knees , egging and crying ?
RATH: Some .
KETCHAM: When I thought about this , that was always there , in the back of my head , that image of me on my knees , crying . It would n't go away and it would really upset me . It was something that I could neve get away from but now , I feel it 's okay . I feel good .
RATH: Can I ask you a question ?
KETCHAM: Anything .
RATH: Why did n't you fade ?
KETCHAM: You mean quit ?
RATH: Yeah .
KETCHAM: I used to think about it . I had Margaret . She wanted kids . I thought about moving somewhere far away like , Europe . I could see all of that , the first part , the getting away but I could n't see that next part . 'Then what ? ' So I 'd stop thinking about it and go back to work . You understand ?
RATH: Yeah .
KETCHAM: I always pictured that I would end in some land fill , unde someone else 's garbage . I kept picturing those plastic diapers filled with some baby 's green shit , covering me . But this is nice
RATH: No . Ketcham stares at the last of the light .
KETCHAM: Nice real nice .
RATH: Yes . Please come in .
ESCORT: Goodness , it 's so dark
RATH: I prefer it like this .
ESCORT: How can a beautiful man like you e shy ? He smiles .
RATH: I prefer it , that 's all .
ESCORT: It 's okay , honey . We can do it anyway you want . Rath is obviously uncomfortable .
RATH: Would you like a drink ?
ESCORT: I 'd love one . Whatever you 're having .
RATH: Why are you working today ?
ESCORT: Holidays are our busiest days . No one likes to be alone on holidays . I know I do n't .
RATH: You 're very good at this are n't you ?
ESCORT: I think you 're supposed to answe that question .
RATH: I know what you expect , but I do n't want He pours himself another drink .
ESCORT: That 's okay , hon , I always expect the unexpected .
RATH: I called because I just want I need to talk .
ESCORT: For what ?
RATH: Honesty . She puts the envelope down .
ESCORT: Everyone regrets something .
RATH: But when you finLsh a job , afterwards do you think about them ?
ESCORT: Sometimes .
RATH: Do you think about their wives o their families ?
ESCORT: No . They call me , I do n't call them . If they did n't call I would n't exist .
RATH: Do you ever think about starting over ?
ESCORT: All the time .
RATH: Can you tell me about it ?
ESCORT: Sometimes I dream that I meet a man , this good , honest man and we fall in love . I imagine us living on a boat , reading books , sailing to places where no one knows who we were or cares what we did . She opens her eyes and looks at him .
RATH: And what if you never meet that man ? She smiles .
ESCORT: Then , I 'll sail alone .
RATH: Do you believe that ?
ESCORT: Are you asking me if I believe in another life ? Rath nods .
RATH: Yes . She picks up the money and stands .
ESCORT: Anytime .
RATH: Fuck you , Nick .
LEEVIO: Do n't ! A FIFTH , SIXTH and SEVENTH SHOT .
BAIN: Do n't anybody move . You move , you 're dead .
RATH: Shit . Just do them all . All of them . Shit . He ca n't pull the trigger .
BAIN: Now run ! Like dogs out of the gate , they bolt .
RATH: Shit . What are you doing , old man ? You 're too fucking slow .
BAIN: Fuck !
RATH: Your move .
BAIN: Do n't shoot ! Do n't shoot ! I give up !
COP: Hit the ground ! Face down ! Spread your legs !
BAIN: Hey , do n't touch that !
COP: Shut up !
RATH: Son of a bitch . The Cops shove Bain into the back seat .
COP #2: This is 181 , returning with suspect involved in multiple shooting at Trattoria Roma . Repeat , en route with suspect .
RATH: I 'm not done yet .
BAIN: Is there a problem ?
RATH: No . No problem . The airport , ight ?
BAIN: Right . The cab pulls out of the intersection .
RATH: How 'd you cut yourself ?
BAIN: Oh ? Working . A little accident . He wipes it off as best he can .
RATH: You a waiter ? You look like a waiter . Bain is uninterested .
BAIN: Yeah . Yeah , I 'm a waiter .
RATH: Where ?
BAIN: What ?
RATH: What restaurant ?
BAIN: Uh , Fontella 's
RATH: So you 're from around here ?
BAIN: No . No I 'm not . Bain is getting agitated .
RATH: Where you from ?
BAIN: What is this ?
RATH: Not too good at small talk , eh ?
BAIN: Look , I 'm real tired and I 'm not interested in fucking chit-chat .
RATH: I know just what you mean . I 'm pretty beat myself . Silence .
BAIN: Why ? What happened ?
RATH: Did n't you here all them sirens ? It 's been all over the radio . Some guy shot Leevio Valli , and a bunch of bystanders , in the Trattoria Roma .
BAIN: No shit .
RATH: Yeah , it 's terrible . I mean Valli , and I do n't care what office he 's unning for , the guy 's a crook . He probably had it coming , but all the other people . Real sad .
BAIN: Yeah .
RATH: But they caught the guy . I heard it all . Sounded like he just went erserk , fucking loco . Shooting anybody . Drugs , probably .
BAIN: Probably .
RATH: I 'd love to sit in that jury . Send that S.O.B . right to the chair . Bain allows himself a bemused smile .
BAIN: Sizzle lean .
RATH: What ?
BAIN: That was Peterson back there . That goes to the expressway for the airport .
RATH: You 're right . Talking too much again .
BAIN: Yeah well , you just blew your tip , pal .
RATH: What ? You think I 'm running you up ?
BAIN: Just do your job . Rath pulls over and slaps the cab in park .
RATH: Get out . You think I 'm running you up ? Get out .
BAIN: You ca n't
RATH: The hell I ca n't . It 's my cab . I do n't like you . So , get the hell out !
BAIN: Holy fucking shit !
RATH: We 're both going to the airport . Bain nods .
BAIN: No fucking way .
RATH: Okay , do n't . Bain thinks .
BAIN: Jesus I 'm being driven to the airport by Robert Rath . He laughs .
RATH: What 's your name ? We both know it 's not Nicholai .
BAIN: Holy shit ! Robert Rath wants to know my name . He leans back . This is a big moment for him .
RATH: How long have you been freelance ?
BAIN: Two years . Two long fucking years .
RATH: It 's just a shoot-out then . Sixty- forty , at best . Not my odds .
BAIN: Sounds like chickenshit He laughs hard .
RATH: You 're wearing a wig now . Bain chokes on his laugh .
BAIN: God damn are you good . Everyone says you 're so fucking good . I just ca n't believe I 'm still alive . If I elieved in God , I 'd be down on my knees . Right now Hey , how come you just did n't plug us all when we came through the door ?
RATH: We both know what you were doing .
BAIN: Smith and Wesson .22 with an eight inch silencer . Classic . When I first heard you used that , I thought , shit , that 's a lady 's gun . Now , it 's all I use . Clean , real clean .
RATH: Tachlinkov .
BAIN: Yeah , that 's it . And he 's like a fucking genius . They said he shaded you over and over . And in the end , he aced you again . Shaded and faded . They say he 's living on some Greek island , but I say that 's fucking bullshit . I say you 're the est and that you planted his ass . Am I right ? Rath says nothing .
RATH: After those cops , you 'll never be able to come back to Cleveland .
BAIN: Who the fuck cares about Cleveland . Cleveland blows . What kind of marks have they got here ? Greasy mobster , teamster or some hand jo politician . I want the money marks . I want the marks that you get . A long beat of silence .
RATH: We go around once .
BAIN: Bullshit . He throws off his seatbelt .
RATH: Okay .
BAIN: What ? What 's okay ?
RATH: There 's a sand barricade up ahead ; I 'm going to ram this cab into it . The cab has an airbag , odds are good I 'll survive . But with this steel casing and bullet proof glass , odds for you are not so good . Bain laughs .
BAIN: Oh man , that 's sweet . That 's fucking sweet . The speedometer continues to climb .
RATH: I know you 're going to jump . Bain looks at him and then at the barricade .
ELECTRA: Jerk .
RATH: I bet you fucking know !
CABBY: Sure .
AKIRA: Hello ?
ELECTRA: I 'll call you again in twenty minutes .
RATH: One vegetarian plate and a can of tuna fish . Room 1014 .
ELECTRA: Ten thousand dollars per disk . Insert the first disk now .
BAIN: Yes ! The display of the game reads `` Game Over '' and congratulates Bain on a new high score .
ELECTRA: Oh , God .
AKIRA: Do n't kill me . Bain looks at him and smiles , then FIRES .
RATH: Do n't be stupid and you will live .
ELECTRA: What ?
RATH: He has to clean up . How many bodies were there ?
ELECTRA: Um , five .
RATH: One hour per man .
BAIN: Hi . This is room 1414
RATH: Get on the expressway .
ELECTRA: Where are we going ? Rath glances back .
RATH: Nowhere yet .
ELECTRA: Nikita , hush . NIKITA wants out and HOWLS again .
RATH: Nikita ? She helped me find you .
ELECTRA: What ? How did you know I had a cat ?
RATH: Took a guess . Lucky for you , I guessed right .
ELECTRA: Who the fuck are you ? Who do you work for ?
RATH: I work for the government .
ELECTRA: Yeah ? She studies his face , his eyes .
RATH: Yeah .
ELECTRA: You 're one of them , are n't you ? A fucking pro .
RATH: I 'm part of the game , just like you . Electra pounds the steering wheel .
ELECTRA: Jesus !
RATH: Twenty large ? That 's all ?
ELECTRA: What do you mean , 'that 's all ' ? What in the hell do you know ?
RATH: The bonus on the contract for you was one million dollars .
ELECTRA: Ten million
RATH: Now you understand why I 'm here .
BELLBOY: Hello , sir . Have you some luggage you need carried . Bain gives him a wink and a smile .
BAIN: Indeed I do .
ELECTRA: Now what ?
RATH: Turn off the engine .
ELECTRA: You want me to pump ?
RATH: No , stay in the car . I want you to understand something . If I intended to kill you , you would already be dead . Electra says nothing . He reaches over and takes the car keys .
ELECTRA: Okay , Nikita , stay calm , think , eathe , think
RATH: Oh shit .
ELECTRA: Please , please .
RATH: Dammit .
JENNIFER: Excuse me Electra stops .
ELECTRA: Letter ?
JENNIFER: Yeah . He said he saw a woman with dark hair going into the building when he dropped it off .
ELECTRA: No . I do n't have it .
JENNIFER: I 'm sorry . I did n't mean to I 'm sorry .
BAIN: Fuck me !
RATH: Want a drink ? Her face is as expressionless as Nikita 's .
ELECTRA: Shut up !
RATH: You 're the computer hacker , you tell me .
ELECTRA: You did n't know anything about me . Nikita rubs up against her leg .
RATH: Yellow Pages . V for veterinarian . There are n't that many . She nods , slurping at her bottle .
ELECTRA: You 're one of them , are n't you ?
RATH: 'Them ' ?
ELECTRA: An assassin ?
RATH: Until a minute ago .
ELECTRA: What does that mean ?
RATH: If I still was what I used to be , you would not be pointing that at me .
ELECTRA: Who is that other guy ?
RATH: Another contractor .
ELECTRA: Someone hired both of you ?
RATH: No . They hired Bain . The contract would have been mine , but Bain took it from me as he took the previous one .
ELECTRA: So this is something between you and him ?
RATH: He stole the contract knowing that I would come after him .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because he is trying to retire me .
ELECTRA: He wants to kill you ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: The nature of the business . You emove your competition .
ELECTRA: And you want to use me to get him ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: Forget it !
RATH: We do n't have a choice .
ELECTRA: Do n't tell me I do n't have a choice !
RATH: Right .
ELECTRA: I 'm two seconds away from making my choice which means you 've got two seconds to tell me why I should n't shoot you .
RATH: It 's simple . You need me . I need you . And we will both need money .
ELECTRA: I do n't need you to get the money my money !
RATH: If it had n't been for me , you would e dead .
ELECTRA: I do n't need the money .
RATH: This is something that is neve going to end . You can never work in the business again with this contract , because he will find you . To survive , you have to go into deep hiding . And that 's going to take money , a lot of money .
ELECTRA: Then you can have the disks and I 'll just walk out that door
RATH: If you walk out that door , Bain will still come after you .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because he took a contract on you . He 'll come for you and he 'll find you .
ELECTRA: You do n't know that you 're trying to scare me .
RATH: No . It 's the truth . I know what you are . Like me , like Bain , you 're a ghost , you 're not part of the real world . You do n't have a social security number . You do n't pay taxes . You 've probably used ten different names over the last ten years . A long time ago something probably happened , something illegal and you ran , you disappeared and it was easy . You think you can do it again . But I 'm telling you , fading from the law is nothing . No matte what you do , where you go , I swea to you that Bain will find you .
ELECTRA: How ?
RATH: Right now , as we sit here , he is tearing through your apartment . He is digging through your drawers , emptying your closets . He will take your telephone and address books , your appointment books . If you keep a diary , he is reading it . He 'll go into the kitchen and find out what kind of food you eat , liquor you drink , cigarettes you smoke . In the athroom he will find any prescription drugs you take and where you get them filled . If you have video tape or recordings he will watch and listen to all of them .
ELECTRA: Oh Jesus Jesus
RATH: He will know everything about you . Everything . I know , because I 've done it . Once you 've been inside a mark 's home , you 're in their head . If you 're any good , you 'll find the mark in a week , and Bain is good ecause I was the best and I could n't take him .
ELECTRA: Shut up ! All right ! You 've said enough !
RATH: Rath . Robert Rath .
ELECTRA: Electra .
RATH: Just Electra ?
ELECTRA: Yeah .
RATH: As in daughter of Agamemnon ?
ELECTRA: No . Just Electra . The conversation dies .
RATH: What do you want to know ?
ELECTRA: If Bain had n't taken the contract on me , would you have ? He stares at her .
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because I 'm done .
ELECTRA: This is crazy . I ca n't trust you . You ca n't trust me . How can we possibly help each other ?
RATH: Do you play ? She looks at the chess board .
ELECTRA: With computers .
RATH: It 's not the same , is it ?
ELECTRA: Better than playing with yourself . He smiles .
RATH: I had an opponent .
ELECTRA: Had ?
RATH: He was Russian . Nicholai Tachlinkov . A legend in the usiness when I was just starting . I admired him . When I heard he loved chess I became obsessed with the game . Electra studies the board .
ELECTRA: He was white ? Rath nods .
RATH: We played with a code using The NewYork Times obituaries . Over three years we played twelve matches . I never won .
ELECTRA: Why did n't you finish this game ?
RATH: He was taken .
ELECTRA: He was killed . Rath nods .
RATH: I killed him .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because that 's how it works . That 's what it 's about . He was the best . He was on top .
ELECTRA: Where you wanted to be ?
RATH: Yes . As soon as you get into this usiness , all you can think about is getting to the top . That 's all there is . Until then , there is nothing . You are nothing .
ELECTRA: How did you get into the business ?
RATH: The same way everyone does ; the government , the Agency .
ELECTRA: The C.I.A . ?
RATH: More or less .
ELECTRA: How old were you ?
RATH: They recruited me when I was in high school .
ELECTRA: Jesus why ?
RATH: Languages . I was already fluent in nine languages .
ELECTRA: You were like a boy genius ?
RATH: Some people said that . I neve thought so .
ELECTRA: Why not ?
RATH: I was just different .
ELECTRA: You went from high school to the Agency ?
RATH: No . I graduated from George Washington University . Then I entered the Agency training program .
ELECTRA: They did n't give you a choice , did they ?
RATH: No , they did n't .
ELECTRA: But you knew what they were training you for ?
RATH: Of course . I was going to be James Bond .
ELECTRA: Ahhhh
RATH: They are very good at what they do . It 's very seductive . The training , the weapons , the travel
ELECTRA: The exotic women .
RATH: Women ? No not really .
ELECTRA: Why not ?
RATH: Women I do n't I do n't want to talk about women .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because you are a women .
ELECTRA: Why did you leave the Agency ?
RATH: The same reason everyone does . You hear your name on C-SPAN and you ealize you 're a skeleton in someone 's closet and they 're coming to bury you .
ELECTRA: They tried to kill you ?
RATH: Yes . It did n't matter much to them as long as I disappeared .
ELECTRA: Then you went freelance ?
RATH: The only thing different about the private sector is that a General Contractor takes less of a percentage than the government , so you make more money . Then once you make the transition , you realize you were never working for the government ; it was always the private sector , the vested interests and it 's the same vested interests that continue to buy your plane tickets .
ELECTRA: Tell me about the first time .
RATH: My first take ?
ELECTRA: Yes .
RATH: Why ?
ELECTRA: Because I want to know .
RATH: It was mechanical . Very precise . It was exactly like the training drill except for the adrenaline .
ELECTRA: Are they usually like that ?
RATH: No . Just the first one .
ELECTRA: After that ?
RATH: They become complicated messy .
ELECTRA: Did it ever bother you ?
RATH: Did it ever bother James Bond ?
ELECTRA: That 's fiction .
RATH: This is fiction ! Do n't you see that ? This is another reality . And the people that come into the world to play this game nobody forces them ! They 're here , they know the ules , the stakes , the risks ! Do you understand what I am saying ? No one is innocent including you !
ELECTRA: Does that mean it did n't bother you ?
RATH: You get a job swinging a hammer , the first day you get a blister , it tears open , it bleeds and it stays sore a long time . You keep swinging the hammer , you get a good hard callous that covers that spot and it never bothers you again .
ELECTRA: No . Something honest . A beat . Rath likes this woman . She moves her Queen .
BAIN: I 'm on the scent .
ELECTRA: Three days ?
RATH: It . Tell it . For all I know it could be a machine .
ELECTRA: You said you did n't trust it .
RATH: I do n't .
ELECTRA: What kind of bank is going to allow us to withdraw ten million dollars the day it is transferred ?
RATH: The kind preferred by drug smugglers , arms dealers and politicians . Rath types in an account number .
ELECTRA: Several .
RATH: Good .
ELECTRA: Where is it ?
RATH: Mexico .
ELECTRA: God , I love first class . I remembe when I was a little girl , I would wonder what it was like up here . I would always try to peek through the curtains . Rath says nothing , staring out the window . Electra shakes her head .
RATH: Thinking .
ELECTRA: About ?
RATH: Nothing . Electra sips the last of her champagne .
ELECTRA: I 've never been to the Gulf of Mexico . Is it as nice as they say ?
RATH: I do n't know .
ELECTRA: You were there ? A long beat .
RATH: Yes .
CABBY: Yes , sir .
RATH: No , no . I said the Hotel Paraiso .
CABBY: Yes . This is the Hotel Paraiso .
RATH: No , the other Hotel Paraiso , in the city . Near the Plaza del Sol .
CABBY: I 'm sorry , sir . A year ago there was a fire in the old Hotel Paraiso . This is the new Hotel Paraiso .
RATH: Take us there .
ELECTRA: So , that 's where all that S & L money is ?
RATH: That 's where he 'll be .
ELECTRA: What ?
RATH: I was n't expecting this . I need to think .
ELECTRA: Did you see them ? Electra moves about the large suite .
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: Why not ?
RATH: It helps me to focus . It centers me , helps me think .
ELECTRA: Oh . What do you think about ?
RATH: Work . The things I need to get done .
ELECTRA: Do you think about the game ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: But you 've never figured out a way to win .
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: Not even a stalemate ?
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: What happens if you do ?
RATH: I do n't know maybe I 'll live on a oat , sail to all the places I 've never been .
ELECTRA: That sounds nice . He finishes his glass of bourbon .
RATH: You can have the bed . The chair is fine for me .
ELECTRA: Thanks .
RATH: Here ?
ELECTRA: In Costa Blanca .
RATH: Yes . She thinks .
ELECTRA: What do you think he 's doing ?
RATH: I do n't know But I 'm sure he 's not sleeping .
BAIN: You 're dead , motherfucker .
RATH: Breakfast .
ELECTRA: Why do n't you bring it out here ? It 's beautiful out here .
RATH: Okay .
ELECTRA: Really ?
RATH: He wo n't be looking for you . Just e careful . Buy a book . Keep you sunglasses on .
ELECTRA: Book . Sunglasses . Great .
RATH: You should knock .
ELECTRA: Sorry .
RATH: How was the beach ?
ELECTRA: The beach ? It was nice . She smiles .
RATH: Taiwan .
ELECTRA: Not that I would know , but you look like you 're really good at it .
RATH: Thank you .
ELECTRA: I 've always wanted to learn something like that .
RATH: You should . It 's very important , that the body release the energy that builds in it .
ELECTRA: Oh , my God . Ten million dollars .
RATH: Sit down . She does .
ELECTRA: Two way ?
RATH: Transmits and receives .
ELECTRA: Cheap as shit . He looks at her .
RATH: I paid a lot for these .
ELECTRA: They saw you coming a mile away . If I had known we 'd be using
RATH: It 's too late now . Okay ? We 'll have to deal with these .
ELECTRA: Fine . He goes back to his drawing .
RATH: This is the bank . This is the hotel . In the morning I will ente the bank .
ELECTRA: Check .
RATH: He will be hidden somewhere out here , probably somewhere low , in the crowd . He 'll stay there until he sees me enter the bank .
ELECTRA: But he wo n't shoot you right then ?
RATH: No . It would be amateur . A risk . He 'll wait for the prime shot , that he knows is coming . Once I 'm inside , he 'll move to the hotel . He 'll go up the back , too much traffic in the front . He draws another square .
ELECTRA: Okay . Then what ?
RATH: Then , we wait .
ELECTRA: Aiiee . More waiting ? I do n't know if I like this plan .
RATH: It will take the entire day , but he will begin to doubt himself . He will begin to believe that he missed me , that somehow I slipped by and am already on a plane to Europe . He describes this as though remembering it .
ELECTRA: Why wo n't he wait until the bank closes ?
RATH: He wo n't be able to . He 'll have to go inside . He 'll have to see with his own eyes , whether or not I am there . If the bank closes , he wo n't know for sure . He 'll come . I 'm sure . And when he does you 'll go into the hotel , go upstairs and take the gun .
ELECTRA: What ? What if he brings it with him ? He shakes his head .
RATH: He ca n't . The bank has an expensive security system ; metal detectors and X-ray machines .
ELECTRA: That means you wo n't have a gun .
RATH: That 's right .
ELECTRA: And with the mikes , I 'll tell you when he leaves the hotel and you 'll tell me when he leaves the bank .
RATH: If things go well , I do n't have to . You 'll already be in a rented ca waiting for me .
ELECTRA: You 'll have the money . How do I know that you wo n't
RATH: I 'll be walking out of the bank , unarmed . You 'll have the gun and I 'll drive the car .
ELECTRA: We split the money ?
RATH: Five million apiece . You get on your plane , I get on mine .
ELECTRA: Sounds pretty well figured out .
RATH: I 've been thinking about it for a long time .
ELECTRA: Except
RATH: What ?
ELECTRA: Except , if he does n't come out of the hotel .
RATH: I told you , he will .
ELECTRA: You ca n't know for sure , how can you ? I mean , you 're not him .
RATH: I was . She waits for him to explain .
ELECTRA: For Nicholai ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: You killed him here ? In this city , outside that bank ? Rath nods .
RATH: I do n't know . It just happened . I was here ten years ago , I 'm here now . That 's it .
ELECTRA: I do n't believe that .
RATH: It was n't planned or premeditated . I swear . Things happened beyond my control . I understood ; I saw where they were leading and I suppose that it just made sense .
ELECTRA: Ten years ago .
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: What happened ?
RATH: I waited until I was insane and then I walked into the bank . He was sitting there , very calm , waiting for me .
ELECTRA: What did he want ?
RATH: He wanted what I want now ; to get out of the business . To disappea to some empty Greek island .
ELECTRA: Was that it ?
RATH: Then he offered me one million dollars to walk away , to quit the usiness .
ELECTRA: You did n't take it .
RATH: No . I went back to the hotel . And waited .
ELECTRA: Ten years later , here you are again .
RATH: Yes . Here I am again .
ELECTRA: This has been the longest day of my life .
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: I think I got one today .
RATH: Five million dollars will buy a lot of Rolaids .
ELECTRA: What do you suppose he 's doing now ?
RATH: Why did you trade a bishop for a knight ?
ELECTRA: I hate bishops . They 're useless . I like knights .
RATH: They 're worth less points .
ELECTRA: So ? There is no point in arguing .
RATH: I did n't notice them .
ELECTRA: When I first saw them I thought they were married .
RATH: How do you know they 're not ?
ELECTRA: I went into their room this afternoon .
RATH: What ?
ELECTRA: It was no big deal . I saw them leave , I went in .
RATH: Jesus , if someone had
ELECTRA: Nobody ever sees me .
RATH: Why in the hell would you take that chance ?
ELECTRA: I heard them last night and it made me want to know something about them . I wanted to , so I did .
RATH: Thank you .
ELECTRA: Is n't it interesting though ? I mean , look at us , in this room . O yesterday , when we were walking in the plaza market . I mean , we look like just another couple . But what are we ? Does n't it seem so crazy ?
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: No ?
RATH: It 's always been that way . The world has always functioned on two levels .
ELECTRA: I know . It makes me crazy .
RATH: Why ?
ELECTRA: I do n't know . When I was in college , I was forced to go to a psychiatrist because I was caught drilling holes in my dorm room floor .
RATH: And you were drilling these holes ?
ELECTRA: So I could watch the girl that lived under me .
RATH: Apparently this doctor was unable to cure you .
ELECTRA: He told me that my curiosity became unnaturally entangled with my sense of self-preservation .
RATH: Did he explain how this happened ?
ELECTRA: He believed it all went back to one night , when as a little girl . I watched my parents have this big fight , really big . I thought my mother was going to kill my father . Then they went into their room and made up . And I watched them make love through the keyhole . The WOMAN SCREAMS a final time in CLIMAX .
RATH: What are you doing ?
ELECTRA: What ?
RATH: That 's a ridiculous move .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Because , I 'll take it .
ELECTRA: I 'm playing white , remember . You ca n't tell me which pieces to move . It does n't work that way .
RATH: I 'm sure you will .
ELECTRA: Am I attractive ? This gets his attention .
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: Are you attracted to me ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: Why ?
RATH: Why ? I do n't know .
ELECTRA: Is it a physical thing , or a mental thing ?
RATH: Both . A good answer . Electra smiles .
ELECTRA: Is that why you did n't want to talk about women before ?
RATH: I did n't want to complicate the situation .
ELECTRA: Attraction is a complication ?
RATH: It can be .
ELECTRA: It happened to you before ?
RATH: Yes .
ELECTRA: Who was she ?
RATH: Someone like me , like you . A pro .
ELECTRA: What happened to her ?
RATH: She was taken .
ELECTRA: Did you
RATH: No . I tried to stop it . I could n't .
ELECTRA: Was she the only one ?
RATH: After her , I realized that to survive I had to live without It 's dangerous to let things become complicated .
ELECTRA: Is this becoming complicated ?
RATH: I 'm not sure that I care anymore . He looks up from the game .
ELECTRA: Were you attracted to me right away ?
RATH: No .
ELECTRA: When did it start ?
RATH: Honestly ?
ELECTRA: Uh-huh .
RATH: When I gave you my gun and you almost shot me .
ELECTRA: Maybe you should see a psychiatrist .
RATH: Why ?
ELECTRA: That does n't sound normal .
RATH: I 'm not normal .
ELECTRA: I know . That 's why I 'm attracted to you . I mean , you make me nervous . You 're intimidating . Maybe it 's my curiosity/self-preservation thing , ut all I can really think about ight now is kissing you .
RATH: Martin .
ELECTRA: Martin .
ELECTRA: I 'm ready .
RATH: Good .
TELLER: May I help you ?
RATH: Yes . Could you check on a transfe for me ?
TELLER: Your name , or account ?
RATH: Rath . Robert Rath .
OFFICIAL: Senor Rath , we have received you transfer .
RATH: Good . Now I 'll need to close this account . I 'd like you to ready the paperwork . The smile fades .
OFFICIAL: You wish to close this account today ?
RATH: That 's correct .
OFFICIAL: How would you like the funds ?
RATH: American currency .
OFFICIAL: This will take some time .
RATH: I have all day .
ELECTRA: He 's here . Rath freezes .
RATH: Now , we wait .
BAIN: Shit . He pulls his leg free .
BAIN: What in the fuck are you doing in there ?
OFFICIAL: Your signature , senor . Everything is ready . Rath signs them , but does not get up .
RATH: I 'm sorry , but I am waiting for an associate . Can you hold everything for me until he arrives ?
OFFICIAL: Of course , senor .
RATH: Thank you .
ELECTRA: Ten million dollars , sitting there . Waiting this is insane .
BAIN: This is fucking insane .
ELECTRA: Oh my God .
RATH: Four minutes .
ELECTRA: What ?
RATH: I waited another four minutes .
ELECTRA: Shit .
RATH: Wait until he is on the stairs .
ELECTRA: Right .
RATH: I 'm taking off my mike .
ELECTRA: Okay .
RATH: Electra
ELECTRA: What ?
RATH: Last night
ELECTRA: Was nice .
RATH: Yes .
BAIN: How 'd you know ? Just tell me that . How 'd you fucking know ?
RATH: I knew the same way in ten years you 're going to know .
BAIN: What does that fucking mean ?
RATH: It means that I 'm going to tell you things , even though I already know that you 're not going to listen to a God damned thing I say .
BAIN: I ai n't scared of you .
RATH: Yeah you are and you hate it . You hate the fact that your hand is shaking and mine is n't . That you 're sweating your balls off and I 'm not . You 've got fear and hate in you elly like battery acid , all because of me .
BAIN: If you think you can take me , quit fucking bullshitting and try it .
RATH: All right , Bain . Pay attention , ecause this is where everything changes .
BAIN: Five million dollars ?
RATH: That 's right .
BAIN: Shit . That sure is a lot of money . Bain is smiling .
RATH: Did you see how I did that ? Magic was n't it ?
BAIN: What ?
RATH: You understand what 's going on ? It makes sense , right ?
BAIN: Oh , yeah .
RATH: What I just said , no assassin would say . What I 've said , only a mark would say . They stare at each other .
BAIN: You think I would be an idiot to pass up five million dollars .
RATH: You would be .
BAIN: You do n't know a fucking thing about me . You do n't have the slightest fucking clue .
RATH: Why do n't you tell me .
BAIN: I 'll tell you this . Afte Cleveland , I thought I was lucky to e alive . But now , here , I just ealized that you were the lucky one .
RATH: Now I 'll tell you something . It would n't fucking matter if I offered you one hundred million dollars . You 'd still be thinking the same thing , that you 're going to take me . And here I am , sitting through this , knowing it 's bullshit , looking at you and the only thing going on in my mind , the only thing I can think is that , in just a few minutes I 'm going to take you . Bain jumps out of the seat .
BAIN: Yeah , okay ! I 'm ready ! Let 's fucking go !
RATH: Electra ?
ELECTRA: God , I ca n't find it ! I ca n't find it ! I ca n't find the fucking gun !
RATH: Electra , get out .
ELECTRA: Oh , God . I see it ! She reaches for it , but it 's too high .
RATH: Electra !
OFFICIAL: Finido , senor .
BAIN: You 're gon na take me ? Come on ! Come on , motherfucker !
OFFICIAL: We are closed , senor . Thank you fo anking with us .
BAIN: Make me shit , you sorry ass piece of mark meat ! Come on , come on . It 's over ! I know it ! You know it ! We know it ! In the
BAIN: Lift your head , motherfucker .
BAIN: Look up . Look at me . I want to see your face .
RATH: Electra . His eyes , his whole body comes to life .
BAIN: Die , bitch !
RATH: Bain ! Rath 's scream ECHOES up through the building .
BAIN: Fuck no !
RATH: Shit !
RATH: Electra ! Time becomes syrup .
BAIN: Game Bain squeezes the trigger
RATH: Electra !
CARLOS: You lose
COLETTE: What do you mean ?
CARLOS: I mean get out .
COLETTE: You 're a pig , you know that ? How can you be like that ?
CARLOS: Leave without saying another word .
DU FOLTIERE: Du Foltiere , Monsieur , intelligence liaison officer . DST . My understanding is that you are the Deputy Chief of Station , CIA , Paris , and that you witnessed by coincidence this attack .
JACK: That 's right .
DU FOLTIERE: And you have told my subordinate that you recognized the terrorist as Carlos ?
JACK: That 's not what I told him . I said he recognized me . Afterwards I ealized who he was . By then it was too late .
DU FOLTIERE: Ah yes The deputy chief of station did not recognize him But he ecognized you .
JACK: I was n't the one wearing the disguise .
DU FOLTIERE: Yes of course But then how are you sure it was him ?
JACK: How often do you see someone holding a live grenade listening to the fuse ? Besides , the arrogant son of a bitch astard smiled at me .
CARLOS: I shot the sheriff But I did not shoot the deputy
RECEPTIONIST: Yes , but sir
CARLOS: I have an urdent delivery for the ministers .
KOJ: We 've got company .
CARLOS: My name is Carlos . You 'll do as I say .
MICKENA: Twenty million dollars ransom .
JACK: Who 's asking for it ?
MICKENA: `` The Arm of the Arab Revolution . '' Alias of the month time . Could be anybody . The point is their leader claims to be Carlos
JACK: He does , does he ?
MICKENA: He wants to make sure everyone knows it 's him . He wants the credit and the Austrians want a positive ID . That 's when your name came up .
JACK: Who brought my name up ?
MICKENA: The guy who says he 's Carlos . The Austrians want you there to identify him .
JACK: Where ?
MICKENA: At the airport . Tomorrow . When they provide the plane to fly him and the hostages to Libya . Carlos evidently feels very comfortable in Libya .
JACK: They got him here in their own ackyard and they 're gon na let him walk away ? !
MICKENA: They 've got no choice , Jack .
JACK: Bullshit ! Let 'em handle it like the Israelis would .
MICKENA: They 're not the Israelis Jack . It 's not their fight .
JACK: Then let me take him out ! They want me to meet him at the airport . I can get close enough to get a clear shot at him . We can end this shit now .
MICKENA: Jack ! He 's got seventy hostages .
JACK: Fuck the hostages !
MICKENA: We will handle it with no loss of life . Those are n't just any hostages . They are the oil ministers of the ichest countries in the world , and that twenty million bucks they 're gon na have to pay is n't gon na break 'em you know . It 's nothing to them . They just want to pay it and it 's not our fight .
JACK: What do you think Carlos is gon na do with that money ? Put it in mutual funds ? He 'll use it to hit us . Let me assemble a team and we can
MICKENA: Jack goddamnit , there is n't any team to assemble ! You 're a fuckin ' dinosaur . We 're out of the assassination business . All of us ! You got a personal hard on against this guy because he made you look like an asshole and now he 's gon na ub your nose in it . I can appreciate your feelings , but it 's not going down on our soil . It is not with ou nationals and it is not our fight ! Now I got my orders and you just got yours .
JACK: I got ta hit the john .
JACK: I think it 's him , but I ca n't be sure . Not with those dark glasses and the beard
CARLOS: Minister of the Interior , I presume ?
JACK: Eat shit and die slow .
MICKENA: You do n't want your picture taken shaking his hand .
CARLOS: As I was saying , I 'm sorry about the loss of life . And thank you for you cooperation .
AMOS: How do you feel ? He smiles .
CARLOS: I do not speak English . Yo soy Cubano de Cuba Castro Su amigos Amigos Entiende ?
AMOS: You spoke English well enough to your contact the street vendor so please let 's not play games . We 're oth professionals , Carlos .
CARLOS: My name Ramirez no Carlos .
AMOS: Yes , I know what your name is Illich Ramirez
CARLOS: No Illich .
AMOS: Alias Carlos Sanchez , alias Carlos Martinez , alias The Jackal .
CARLOS: Jou 're loco man No Carlos I am tourist
AMOS: Listen to me you piece of shit . I 'm trying very hard to be professional about this but you are in Israeli hands now So do n't play games with me entiende hombre ?
CARLOS: Okay .
AMOS: Amazing how much your English has improved in just a few seconds
CARLOS: Look , obviously there has been some kind of mistake . I do n't know who you think I am , but I am a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy , okay ? I am Lieutenant Commande Annibal Ramirez of the U.S.S . Yorktown , Sixth Fleet , docked in Haifa . I am not Carlos or Sanchez o Illich or the Jackal or whoever you think you just caught . If you call the U.S. Embassy and ask for the Sixth Fleet Liaison Officer , he 'll confirm everything I 've said . He is not pushy , just firm and decisive .
AMOS: Remarkable remarkable performance the chutzpa of it is unbelievable my hat is off to you Carlos .
RAMIREZ: Your hat 's off ? ! I 'll tear your head off ! You get on the horn and you call the U.S. Embassy and you call the Sixth Fleet Liaison Office and then motherfucker you go out and find yourself a good lawyer and I 'll tell you somethin ' Jack , I 'm gon na sue your ass so bad that your great great grandchildren will still be shovelin ' shit to pay off the debt ! Amos is doing his best to look unflappable .
AMOS: Carlos give me a break , huh ? If you were an American officer you would have ID papers , dog tags .
RAMIREZ: I ditched 'em in an alley just before you guys got me . Go back there you 'll find 'em .
AMOS: You ditched them .
RAMIREZ: Per instructions An American officer on shore leave in the Middle East must travel in mufti , civilian clothes . A bunch of Arabs start chasing me could be terrorism could be kidnapping instructions are to ditch our tags , our ID o anything else that could identify us . That 's why I spoke Spanish , that 's why I said I was a Cuban , not an American . And you broke my ribs here asshole . I 'm gon na sue you , I 'm gon na sue your government I 'm gon na sue every fuckin ' Jew I can get my hands on you , understand me ? !
YONI: Sir ?
AMOS: Yoni I want you to go back to the old city where we caught Carlos I want you to be very inconspicuous . Take a half dozen men you comb every alleyway there every garbage can everything you can find for what looks like a U.S. military ID if there is such a thing there .
YONI: What 's the problem ?
AMOS: Who said there was a problem ? There 's no problem . I just asked you to do something and you 're going to do it . So there 's no problem .
SCOTT: I love it ! Those cocky Israeli astards thought they hit the jackpot . Got the Jackal right in their own ackyard
MONROE: State Department 's goin ' apeshit . And the Navy Admiral Trost was so pissed he was ready to shell the port of Haifa .
JACK: You 're not gettin ' it are ya ?
SCOTT: What ?
JACK: These were n't some yokels This was the Israeli General Security Service The Mossad . The best in the business . They have the most complete dossier there is on Carlos , the latest pictures of him everything . I mean what 's that tell you ?
SCOTT: That they really ate it this time .
JACK: Scott does n't it hurt to walk around like that with your head up your ass I mean is n't it painful ?
JOEY: Poppi !
MAURA: I thought you were n't coming back till tomorrow
RAMIREZ: I wanted to be here for his game . Look how beautiful she is ! He picks up the baby and kisses her .
MAURA: What happened to your eye ?
RAMIREZ: Nothing . Just fell . It does n't matter . I 'm home .
JACK: Jesus
RAMIREZ: I beg your pardon ?
JACK: Lieutenant Commander Ramirez my name is Jack Shaw I 'm with the government I 'd like to talk to you about what happened in Israel .
RAMIREZ: I want to sue them , okay ? I want to sue the guy who broke my ribs . I want to sue their government and their Mossad and I want to sue Golda Meir !
JACK: Mrs. Meir is dead , Lieutenant Commander .
RAMIREZ: Then you might want to have them dig her up because I intend to sue her . Jack chuckles .
JACK: Commander Ramirez when I said I was from the government , perhaps I should have been more specific . I 'm from the CIA .
YOLANDA: Poppi
RAMIREZ: That 's not me I mean I know it looks like me but
JACK: I know it 's not you .
RAMIREZ: It 's this Carlos guy .
JOEY: Poppi , you do n't need to watch the fire , come climb with me .
RAMIREZ: Get out of that tree , Joey . You mother sees that and I 'm dead .
JACK: This is the only recent shot we have of him telescopic lens from half a mile away taken by the Israelis . Can you blame 'em for what happened ? The only difference is the eyes .
RAMIREZ: Okay I get it now , you 're here to talk me out of my lawsuit . But see I identified myself but they kept me in that cell for two more days chained to that wall after I told 'em who I was so
JACK: Lieutenant Commander , I am not here about your lawsuit . Carlos is the single most vicious terrorist in the world . He 's personally carried out or masterminded the worst terrorist attacks in modern history . Men , women , children . Children like yours lown to bits or slaughtered in cold lood . Annibal why did you join the Navy ?
RAMIREZ: To serve my country .
JACK: To serve your country to protect her from her enemies . Well Carlos is one of her enemies now . And he 'll probably become a bigger one terrorism unfortunately is a growth industry .
RAMIREZ: Why are you telling me all this ?
JACK: Lieutenant Commander , the governments of most countries in the free world have been after Carlos for ten years and we have nothing to show for it . There is exactly one person in the world who can help us get Carlos . And that person is you .
RAMIREZ: What do you mean to get him ?
JACK: All I can tell you is it may take as much as six months to a year of preparation . It will involve a high degree of risk . That much said , you may never as much as lay eyes on him yourself . But if we succeed Carlos wo n't be a threat to anyone anymore . Now I know you 're going to need some time to think about it so
RAMIREZ: No I do n't need any time . The answer 's no .
JACK: Annibal
RAMIREZ: Lieutenant Commander I am a Naval Officer that 's what I was trained for that 's what I 'm good at See you came to the wrong address . You want James Bond . He lives in London and he 's got an Aston Martin . You ca n't miss him .
NAVAL AIDE: Admiral Crawford this is Commande and Mrs. Ward Scowcroft .
CRAWFORD: I know your family well , Commander , I was with your father at the Academy . I expect great things from you Ward great things .
SCOWCROFT: I wo n't let you down sir . Next up are Ramirez and his wife Maura .
NAVAL AIDE: Admiral Crawford this is Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. Annibal Ramirez .
CRAWFORD: Annabelle ? !
RAMIREZ: It 's Annibal sir .
CRAWFORD: Yes of course well I 'm glad to see we 're getting some Mexican American officers in the ranks . I 'm an L.A. boy myself so I have a real soft spot for authentic Mexican food My stomach does n't always go along with it but
MAURA: We 'd love to have you over to dinne Admiral but the cuisine would be Cuban not Mexican . I think you stomach would find it more agreeable not to mention you taste buds .
CRAWFORD: You 're Cuban Americans oh I 'm sorry you grow up in L.A. and you hear Ramirez and anyway it was a pleasure meeting you .
JACK: We do keep bumping into each othe do n't we . How do you do , Mrs. Ramirez ? I was over at your lovely home the other day but I felt cheated because I had to leave before I had the pleasure of meeting you .
MAURA: The pleasure is mine
JACK: Para servirle , Yo soy encantado de conocerte .
MAURA: Encantada Senor
JACK: Shaw Jack Shaw .
MAURA: Senor Shaw . Mucho gusto .
RAMIREZ: My wife speaks English Mister Shaw so do I .
JACK: Perdonname , I did n't think you 'd be embarrassed to speak Spanish in front of the Admiral . A sus ordenes .
RAMIREZ: I 'll have a club soda and uhh a glass of white wine please
JACK: Let me guess the white wine is fo your wife right ? Cause you 're afraid to drink anything stronger than clu soda around the brass . How do you stand this shit Annibal ? I mean they 're all so fuckin ' constipated .
RAMIREZ: My wife is waiting for her wine if you 'll excuse me . Jack stands in front of him blocking his way .
JACK: Oh there 's a fiery retort .
RAMIREZ: How about fuck you .
JACK: I 'd believe it if you said it a little louder
RAMIREZ: Hey I told you I did n't want anything to do with you .
JACK: How 's it going to look in your jacket ? Your country came to you requesting help and you turned it down . Not exactly promotion material , know what I mean ? These people do n't want you in their club , Annibal . I do .
RAMIREZ: The answer is no . That 's the end of it .
JACK: I want you to come with me .
RAMIREZ: Well then get set for disappointment .
JACK: Okay . Then you are ordered to come with me .
RAMIREZ: You ca n't order me to do shit .
JACK: It 's for you .
RAMIREZ: Hello who ? Oh yes sir Yes sir Yes sir Yes sir . I will yes sir .
JACK: Put it on .
RAMIREZ: Why ?
JACK: Because I just told you to . You need a phone call for that , too ? Ramirez resignedly puts the coat on .
RAMIREZ: He 's six .
JACK: Hmmph so is this kid .
FATHER: Hello Doctor Shaw . Is this Is this the Specialist you told us about ?
JACK: Doctor Ramirez , Lieutenant and Mrs. Newcomb the parents of the child who was wounded in the terrorist attack .
FATHER: You 're the one who 's going to do the surgery .
JACK: He 's going to help out .
FATHER: They told us you were the best person in the world to do this .
JACK: He 's the only one . Jack turns to Ramirez .
RAMIREZ: What kind of a sadistic son of a itch are you ? You use those poo people you use anything to get what you want .
JACK: To get what I want ? He hands him the photo album .
MAURA: What are you doing ?
RAMIREZ: I was just reading some manuals She bends down and kisses his neck .
MAURA: Read 'em on the Navy 's time this is my time
RAMIREZ: You 'll see it 'll go by fast .
MAURA: Not fast enough . Ramirez bends down to hug Joey .
RAMIREZ: You take care of Mommy , okay ?
JOEY: But why do you have to go ?
RAMIREZ: Well they 're finally giving me my chance to go into subs that 's what I 've always wanted you know
JOEY: New color subs
RAMIREZ: Nuclear
JOEY: Is there going to be a war , Poppi ?
RAMIREZ: Not if I can help it .
JOEY: Then why do you need to go away ?
RAMIREZ: Because sometimes countries need soldiers and sailors to be on guard so there wo n't be a war So all the little children like you and aby Yolanda will be safe .
JOEY: Why ca n't somebody else 's Daddy go on the sub and you could stay here and go to my games ?
RAMIREZ: Because I 'm the one they asked and I 'm the one who knows how to do the job .
JACK: This is an ad hoc operation set up specifically for your mission . When that 's over , not even a trace of it will remain . You do n't need to know anyone 's name . And from now on , you name is Miguel Security .
RAMIREZ: So your name really is n't Jack Shaw ?
JACK: Of course it is .
RAMIREZ: Yes .
JACK: Something wrong , Miguel ?
RAMIREZ: No not really .
JACK: Your father was in a Cuban prison if I 'm correct . Ramirez turns and looks at him in surprise .
RAMIREZ: Yes .
JACK: I 'm sure that 's a disturbing memory . He looks Ramirez straight in the eyes .
RAMIREZ: You did n't set this up in a prison ecause it was the first piece of eal estate you were shown , did you , sir ?
JACK: Let 's just say everything has its purpose . And Miguel no one is to know anything about you other than that you 're our student . So do n't call me sir , because it 's like wearing a sign on your forehead that you 're military . From here on out forget the Navy .
RAMIREZ: Yes sir Gotcha
JACK: This is our surveillance and satellite tracking center . Just as we are plotting to destroy Carlos , if he knew what we 're trying to do , I assure you he 'd try to find a way to kill us first .
AMOS: Hello Miguel My name is Amos . Ramirez stares at him .
RAMIREZ: Oh yeah I did n't recognize you without my foot chained to the floor .
AMOS: I hope there are no hard feelings .
RAMIREZ: There are a lot of hard feelings . And I 'm still gon na sue you when this is over .
JACK: Miguel , this is a combined Israeli- American operation . Amos here knows Carlos better than anyone in the free world . He was the one who took that picture of Carlos in Libya .
RAMIREZ: If you could get a picture of him why did n't you just kill him ?
AMOS: Do n't let all this equipment fool you . Carlos still has the home court advantage . He has the best protection in the world three layers at least at all times . Next and maybe most important Carlos himself . The French DST came to arrest him once . He was at his apartment , drunk , playing his guitar . He actually had them convinced it was all a mistake . Then he went into his bathroom , took a shave mind you so he would look his best for the interrogation and when he came out managed to shoot each of them through the forehead . Then he got the informer who had etrayed him , put him down on his knees and killed him Think of it . He took a shave and did n't even nick himself once . Amos is quiet , lets that sink in .
JACK: That by the way , is the last question you 're going to ask . From now on you 'll get information when and how we want you to get it . Not before . You do n't ask questions , you just do what you 're told .
AMOS: This is going to be unlike any learning experience you 've ever had efore . For one thing , we 're going to push to all your limits . Fatigue , frustration and fear . We 're going to make you more terrified than you 've ever been in your life just to see how you handle the fear . Any othe learning experience you get things ninety- nine point nine nine nine percent right you get an `` A . '' Here if you get things ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent right you get
JACK: Dead ! And I 'll tell you the truth . I honestly in my heart of hearts do n't care whether you live or die . Do n't take that personal . I do n't care whether I live or die . I do care about getting Carlos . That 's all I care about .
RAMIREZ: But nothing personal , right ?
AMOS: I 'm not as cold-blooded as my American friend it would bother me very much if you were dead so we will teach you to stay alive but no questions just do . Otherwise
RAMIREZ: When do we start ?
JACK: You already have . What were the names on the last three tombstones you passed on your right ?
RAMIREZ: I I do n't know , I was n't looking . I was n't paying attention .
JACK: That 's what will get you killed . Carlos is always looking always paying attention . Always .
AMOS: Because Carlos is the master of the techniques of survival which we will teach you and because he is an efficient killer for whoever employs him , then for him there are simply no rules . Unlike you Miguel , you 're a rule follower , are n't you ? Ramirez says nothing .
JACK: And if you learn what we can teach you , you 'll be one , too . If not , you 'll be dead .
AMOS: Good morning . How 's the porridge , you like it ?
RAMIREZ: 'Morning . It 's not bad .
AMOS: Good finish everything in the pot .
RAMIREZ: There 's got to be like eight helpings in there maybe
AMOS: No questions Just do .
RAMIREZ: Illich Ramirez . Caracas , Venezuela .
AMOS: Your father ?
RAMIREZ: Doctor Jose Altagracia Ramirez Do you have to smoke that cigar ?
AMOS: Yes .
JACK: You need to not only remember the names on every tombstone , but where they are so when I call out a name , you whirl and shoot .
RAMIREZ: It 's kind of cold . You think I might e able to borrow a warmer jacket from someone ?
JACK: Brisson ! We do n't want you to be comfortable . That 's just what will get you killed .
RAMIREZ: Top shelf some milk , some juice , maybe some cottage cheese , a couple ottles of beer , some tomatoes I do n't know
JACK: What kind of milk , how many cartons , open or closed , what kind of juice , how full was the bottle , was it cottage cheese or cream cheese , how many bottles of beer , how many tomatoes ? This is life and death ! Jack opens the cupboard .
JACK: Dead again .
RAMIREZ: What 's that ?
JACK: It 's a transmitter .
RAMIREZ: For what ?
JACK: Target practice . You 're the target .
AMOS: You finish all your porridge ?
RAMIREZ: Yeah yeah I finished all my porridge .
AMOS: Good now you can have some more .
RAMIREZ: Enough of this porridge shit man , hi jo deputa ! Fuck it man I ai n't eatin ' no more of this shit ! And I ai n't wearin ' this fuckin ' shirt anymore either !
AMOS: Why Miguel amigo , whatever is the matter ?
RAMIREZ: I 'll tell you what the matter is man I been here twelve mothe fuckin ' weeks an ' all I 've had to eat the whole time is this shit ! And those dumb ass basketball games what 's that ? ! You damn near kill me with those fucking snowmobiles I have n't seen my family in three months and I still do n't know what any plan is or what I 'm supposed to be doing !
AMOS: Congratulations ! You 're acting like a child like a spoiled brat
JACK: And not a Navy Lieutenant Commander , which is exactly what would get you killed .
AMOS: Finally you 're acting like a willful spoiled child which is just what Carlos was .
JACK: We could n't just let you study Carlos . If this thing is going to work , you have to become him . Ramirez looks at him in disgust .
RAMIREZ: The two most elite intelligence services in the world and the best you can come up with is this porridge ullshit ? !
AMOS: As a child Carlos was fed that porridge that you love so much every day . He hated it . Every woman or man he 's ever been close to he told about that porridge how the very smell of it made him sick . And now it makes you sick .
JACK: When he was in school he was a scrawny little kid . The last one to get picked for any teams . He felt as clumsy as we 've made you feel
AMOS: His father smoked cigars the same ones whose smell you complained about . The only cover that can save you life is the one you believe yourself . Now are you ready to pass the next test ?
JACK: Time 's up .
AMOS: Nu ? Is she telling the truth or lying ?
RAMIREZ: She 's got to be lying , otherwise this would be a very short test and I do n't think that 's what you had in mind . She had a man over .
JACK: How do you know ?
RAMIREZ: She has n't been here in a week ? Then why was the sponge still damp . It means she washed dishes . Take a look at the dish rack . There 's water in the tray underneath it . Probably from a couple of plates . There 's a it of water in the silverware tray . The milk is still fresh not even a hint of being sour and the date on it is a week from today means she just bought it yesterday or the day efore . The margarine 's fresh-bought ut it 's already been opened . Same with the bread .
AMOS: How do you know it was a man ?
RAMIREZ: She might have met him at a ba ecause there 's a book of matches in the garbage . She was probably careful to throw the cigarette away but there 's still a bit of ash and that cigarette smell at the bottom of the liner .
JACK: What else ?
RAMIREZ: I think they made love on the sofa ecause one of the cushions has been turned over and there 's the indentation of a tennis shoe print in the rug over there . He looks down at Jack 's shoes .
JACK: The plan is to get the KGB to eliminate Carlos for us . Carlos knows every link between the KGB and every terrorist organization in the world . He 's not only the smoking gun , he knows every contact there ever was . We make the KGB think that Carlos is eady to turn ready to go over to the CIA , and they 'll take him out .
RAMIREZ: Why would they think Carlos would go over to the CIA ?
AMOS: Money fifty million not fo the forces of world revolution this time , but for him , in his pocket with a new identity and CIA protection . They 'll believe it if we lay it out right they 'll believe it .
RAMIREZ: When do we move ?
AMOS: Not so fast . You 're far from ready . I would think another three months of training and then
RAMIREZ: Bullshit ! I 'm ready now . Give me any test you want . Christ , I already passed your tests what more do you want ?
AMOS: It should be hitting him now
RAMIREZ: Jack ! Jack ! ! ! ! Amos ! ! You motherfuckers !
RAMIREZ: So she tried the first bowl of cavia and said , that 's too hot , and she tried the second bowl and said , that 's too cold and so she tried the third little itsy bitsy bowl of cavia that belonged to little Miguel and that turned into maggots and that was just right
JACK: Brilliant , Doctor ! Jack eats the brain .
RAMIREZ'S FATHER: Vaya mi hijo . Vaya rapido !
CARLOS: I think she likes me better do n't you baby . She likes it rough you never knew that ? Yala ruh mi hun . He motions for Ramirez to leave .
AMOS: I hope we did n't go too far with this .
JACK: I 'd rather have him wind up in a mental institution fucked up on LSD than shot in some back alley in Libya . If he ca n't handle this , he sure as shit ca n't handle going operational .
RAMIREZ: Okay what 's next ?
JACK: Do n't stop for the stop sign , do n't even slow down for it . You 've got to hit the hairpin exactly fifteen seconds after you pass the stop sign .
RAMIREZ: You crazy-assed mother fucker ! I could have killed you !
JACK: You ca n't let down ! This is n't a game it is life and death . You have to be ready for anything , all the time .
RAMIREZ: Fuck you !
JACK: The clip in your gun has three live , two dummy , one live , three dummy , one live .
RAMIREZ: No rules , Jack ? Then you fucking deal with it .
JACK: You pussy . You rule-following pussy .
RAMIREZ: No rules , Jack ? Okay We 're in a fucking foreign country on a secret mission I ca n't be here , I 'm on a submarine . The U.S. Navy 's my alibi . What 's the count on my ammunition , Jack ? Is this one live or a dud ?
JACK: Yes , my good son
RAMIREZ: Think you can be lucky three times in a row ? He pulls the trigger . CLICK !
JACK: Stay out of it .
AMOS: It 's over , Jack . He 's it .
RAMIREZ: What 's this ?
JACK: What you 'll wear from now on . Black T-shirt and jeans it 's the only thing Carlos ever wears wheneve he 's not out being a terrorist . It 's the opposite of what he was forced to wear as a child you know the school uniforms , the white tight collared shirts It 's become like a fetish for him .
AMOS: And to match your new wardrobe , in another two days your bandages will come off and you 'll get to show you eautiful new nose to Carla .
RAMIREZ: Who 's Carla ?
JACK: She 's a Venezuelan . She was Carlos ' main squeeze about fifteen years ago . She 'll put the finishing touches on the act .
RAMIREZ: Why 's one of Carlos ' girlfriends helping us ?
AMOS: Carlos used her like he uses a lot of women . She emigrated to Israel . Now she wants to get even .
RAMIREZ: What do you mean used her . How ?
JACK: He put her on an airplane with a omb in her suitcase . She would have gone up with everything else . What 's that song say ? There are fifty ways to leave your lover ? Make that fifty- one .
AMOS: She 's about thirty-seven still attractive .
JACK: So it 's not gon na be a hardship .
RAMIREZ: What 's not gon na be a hardship ?
JACK: Making love to her . Ramirez looks at Jack in shock .
AMOS: `` When in doubt , close your eyes and think of England . ''
CARLA: The thing about Carlos is he does n't lose himself with a woman not with a lover maybe with a whore I do n't know I was n't his whore . Lovers are different to him he might have a use for them so he has to seduce them properly . He has to make sure they 're so crazy about him they 'll do anything fo him .
RAMIREZ: When did you ?
CARLA: Shhh ! You 're not here .
RAMIREZ: Just like that ?
CARLA: Look Mister
RAMIREZ: Miguel
CARLA: I do n't want to know your name I do n't want to know anything about you okay . This is n't fun for me . I 'm not here to play soft music and be omantic . I 'm here to help you kill him At least I hope that 's what you 're going to do . They promised me it was .
RAMIREZ: Yes .
CARLA: Take off your clothes .
RAMIREZ: Great .
CARLA: That 's what he would have done if I would have said something like that . Without a moment 's hesitation . What 's wrong with you ? ! No eres ni hombre !
CARLA: Ask me if I like it he always asks he wants to hear it .
RAMIREZ: You like it
CARLA: Demand it .
RAMIREZ: You like it ? !
CARLA: Yeah
RAMIREZ: You like it ? !
CARLA: Make me beg .
RAMIREZ: Beg for it
CARLA: Please
RAMIREZ: Yeah
CARLA: Please Tell me you want me to come
RAMIREZ: I want you to come now
CARLA: You want to feel it all over you
RAMIREZ: Oh yeah baby yeah you make me feel so good .
CARLA: Stop ! Stop it !
RAMIREZ: What What 'd I do
CARLA: He never loses control He neve tells you how he feels . He 's in control . He 's the one who makes you feel what he wants you to feel . He never feels anything You stupid stupid
RAMIREZ: Why ?
CARLA: On your back !
RAMIREZ: Yeah .
CARLA: You like it ?
RAMIREZ: Oh baby
CARLA: Ooooo I want to make you come
RAMIREZ: Yeah
CARLA: I want to make you come I want to feel it all over me .
RAMIREZ: Yeah yeahhh Yeahhhhhh .
CARLA: Let me let me do it Put you hands down .
RAMIREZ: I 'm sorry I 'm sorry .
CARLA: Get your hands off me !
RAMIREZ: Shh I 'm not him I 'm not Carlos I 'm
CARLA: I do n't care who you are . I do n't want to know anything about you except that you 're going to kill him .
AGNIESKA: My God My God It 's him .
JACK: Well not the most painful way to urn your bridges behind you , huh Miguel ?
RAMIREZ: What do you mean ?
JACK: Saint Miguel the faithful husband is dead . Long live Carlos . You 've cheated on your wife now you can do anything .
RAMIREZ: What I did in there I did n't do to cheat on my wife and you know it .
JACK: Hey , pussy 's pussy .
RAMIREZ: I just got it about you , Jack . You ca n't get it up , can you ?
JACK: Got what confirmed ?
AMOS: The KGB has set up a surveillance on Agnieska . And Agnieska has received her summons from her long-lost love Carlos , telling her to come and meet you . At the meeting you convince he you 're Carlos . You ask her to handle some bank transactions . She will . Then the KGB knows Carlos and Ortega are the same man . Then later they 'll see you meet with a CIA agent . They 'll have all the pieces . They 'll know Carlos has turned .
RAMIREZ: Where do I meet with this Agnieska ?
AMOS: Libya . That 's where Carlos is .
RAMIREZ: Could n't we wait till he takes a trip ? I mean Libya shit .
AMOS: The waiting is more dangerous to you than going to Libya . We 've laid out a trap . Now we have to be careful not to get caught in it ourselves .
RAMIREZ: Okay
AMOS: Nothing can make you ready for combat ut combat . Jack would be against me telling you this He would say you should n't have a thought in you head that we have n't put there but you 're not just a box that we 're going to fill up with our own ideas . You have a right to know certain things .
RAMIREZ: I appreciate that Amos a lot . It 's funny , I started out hating you I mean I 'm still gon na sue you , do n't think you 're off the hook for my broken ribs , but
AMOS: But now you love me and we 're going to run away to San Francisco and find a reformed rabbi to perform a mixed gay marriage . Listen to me You 're going to feel more alone than you 've ever felt in your life . It will hit you all of a sudden and you 'll think your heart 's going to jump out of your chest , you 'll think everyone around you can hear you heart beating , and that everyone around you is an enemy agent . I want you to be prepared for that . So you can deal with it . Understand ?
RAMIREZ: Yes .
AMOS: We had an agent the best we eve had in training . We were going to infiltrate him into Beirut and then use him to penetrate the PFLP . No student ever scored higher than this man We set up his cover for six months in Argentina . He was perfect . And then we sent him to Beirut . He got off the plane , went to his hotel , went up to his room and had a nervous eakdown .
RAMIREZ: Jesus
AMOS: You splash some water on your face . You take some deep breaths . You look in the mirror and when you look in that mirror , I do n't want you to find Annibal Ramirez . You find Carlos . If you find Carlos , that 's what everyone else will find too . And if you find Carlos and anything goes wrong , he 's the one who can get you out of it . Because he 's the best .
RAMIREZ: I got a wife I got to go back to when this is over . I got kids I got to go back to when this is over . I want to go back as Annibal Ramirez not Carlos .
AMOS: You will you 'll need a time of decompression and it will be hard at first , but you will . Because inside you are n't Carlos you are n't a terrorist . But right now , in orde to save your life , you 've got to be . You 've got to look in the mirror and find Carlos . Do you understand ? It is almost said like the offering of a vow .
RAMIREZ: I do .
AMOS: You wo n't be able to go in with a gun too risky so we 're going to have to get one to you once you 're in place . How I do n't know yet But we 'll get one to you . You 'll make your way out by boat . We 'll be on it . But we wo n't be able to help if anything goes wrong . We 'll make our way down the coast to a friendly state and then fly back to London , and from there back to the U.S .
OFFICIAL: El Pass'port ! The sudden harsh voice jolts us all .
RAMIREZ: Yes .
OFFICIAL: Your business ?
RAMIREZ: Pipes . I sell pipes .
OFFICIAL: Pipes ?
RAMIREZ: For the oil
OFFICIAL: Oil ?
RAMIREZ: Pipes for oil Petroleum
OFFICIAL: Step over behind the curtain .
OFFICIAL: All right . You can go . Finally he stamps the passport .
RAMIREZ: Who 's there ? An incomprehensible response in Arabic .
VOICE: Room service .
RAMIREZ: I not order nothing .
VOICE: Iced water .
RAMIREZ: Iced water ?
VOICE: Yes , sir .
RAMIREZ: Jesus .
AGNIESKA: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
RAMIREZ: Then I 'm going to have something to eat I 'm famished .
AGNIESKA: You bastard ! I have n't see you fo two years and this is the way you Ramirez laughs .
RAMIREZ: I had to be sure I could still trust you . He bends down to her and kisses her .
AGNIESKA: I came all the way to this god- forsaken country did n't I ? I 've been holed up in this place you arranged for me for the past twenty-fou hours I could n't eat I could n't sleep nothing just sitting in here waiting for you .
RAMIREZ: So why did you leave . . . ?
AGNIESKA: Whoever stocked this place with food did n't leave much of a selection I wanted to go out and get some nice things for you . You were n't supposed to be here for another three hours . I could have made a nice dinner .
RAMIREZ: I 've got what I want to eat in my arms right now .
JACK: I wonder what he 's doing now .
AMOS: Practicing safe sex , I hope .
AGNIESKA: My God my God
RAMIREZ: Yeah Now , let 's eat .
AGNIESKA: Just getting some air in here Do n't be so jumpy .
RAMIREZ: Did n't like the food I 'd left fo you , huh ? His eyes scan the refrigerator .
AGNIESKA: Could n't eat a bite of it .
RAMIREZ: Ughhh I do n't blame you .
AGNIESKA: What ?
RAMIREZ: You do n't smoke filters .
AGNIESKA: What are you talking about ?
RAMIREZ: That 's what I 'm talking about ! The filter-tipped cigarette . Who was here .
AGNIESKA: You 're crazy no one I Illich listen I ran out of cigarettes and and I was at a cafe and I bummed a cigarette I had a cigarette and coffee and came ack here that 's all .
RAMIREZ: You bummed a cigarette that 's all .
AGNIESKA: Yes yes you know I ca n't have coffee without a cigarette .
RAMIREZ: I believe you .
AGNIESKA: The French the DST They made me I did n't have any choice
RAMIREZ: You sold me out !
KOJ: Illich you must get dressed . There was a shooting tonight We have to talk .
CARLOS: What shooting who ?
RAMIREZ: What the fuck are you talking about , you did n't know she was working with the DST ?
JACK: We did n't . How the fuck should we know ?
RAMIREZ: They 're our allies , for Christ 's sake !
JACK: They did n't tell us this time . Why should they it was their operation . And we sure as shit were n't gon na let them in on you being here .
RAMIREZ: Why not ? ! That way they would n't have tried to kill me and I would n't have wound up killing them .
AMOS: It would have been too dangerous .
RAMIREZ: Too dangerous what the fuck do you think that was back there ? Safe ? How the fuck more dangerous does it have to get ?
JACK: Annibal , the important thing was it worked ! The Russians have to think it was Carlos now . What did they see ? They trail the girl and then there 's a shoot out . Let 's make sure they know it was DST we can make sure they get that information . If they know the DST was there then what were they doing there if it was n't to get Carlos . She betrayed you , so tomorrow we take her name off the bank account and we set up another place for them to get thei pictures . We burned Libya but okay so we 'll find another place . The only thing that matters is they 've got to believe it now . It 's perfect !
RAMIREZ: You fuckin ' maniac ! I killed fou DST agents tonight ! They 're our allies and they were tryin ' to kill me and I killed them . I killed our allies !
JACK: Hey fuck our allies ! Ramirez just looks at him in horror .
AMOS: Annibal policemen wind up shooting other policemen it happens . I would rather have you here feeling guilty about them than to know there was a meeting in Paris tonight where they were feeling guilty about you .
JACK: Annibal you did what you had to do and it worked . All the training worked . Carlos could n't have done it any better . He smiles .
CARLOS: So the moronic DST find an old girlfriend and send her here to bait a honey trap for me and then they trip over their own dicks and start shooting each other why ?
KOJ: There was a man with her who we do n't know They must have spotted him come in thought it was you and moved too soon before she even made contact with you . Whoeve he was he was awfully good .
CARLOS: Where is the girl now ?
KOJ: They 've taken her to Paris .
CARLOS: I want the bitch dead !
KOJ: It wo n't be easy .
CARLOS: If it was going to be easy I could hire a couple of junkies . I want the cunt dead ! You handle it Koj . Hit her in Paris , right under thei fucking noses and leave Europe through London .
KOJ: When ?
CARLOS: Now ! Leave now . Not this afternoon not five minutes from now Now !
RAMIREZ: Is this seat taken ?
JACK: No , go right ahead .
RAMIREZ: I want to go home . I want to see my family .
JACK: This is n't the place for this conversation .
RAMIREZ: No rules , remember ? I want to go home . You said yourself we ca n't move again till he leaves Libya . You do n't even know when that 's gon na e. He might stay there another yea for Christ 's sake .
JACK: No he wo n't . He 's gon na make a move and it 'll be in Europe just to stick it up the DST 's nose . I 'm gon na go and find out about our connecting flight .
KOJ: Carlos what are you doing here ?
RAMIREZ: You idiot ! Do n't you know bette than to approach me in public !
KOJ: Excuse me sir I only wanted to know where I could buy a newspaper .
RAMIREZ: Go over there by the phone booths and wait I 'll come to you . Ramirez gets up casually .
KOJ: Excuse me sir I asked if you knew where I could buy a newspaper .
KOJ: Tell me what I want to know quickly or you 're dead .
AMOS: Get out of here now
RAMIREZ: I 've got to get you to a doctor .
AMOS: Get out now Ramirez cradles him .
RAMIREZ: I 'm not going to let you die here I 've still got a lawsuit against you , remember ?
AMOS: My dear boy my dear dear boy I am dead . Please God , do n't let it all be for nothing Get out now
PHONE VOICE: Cousins Industrial Maintenance , may I help you ?
JACK: Mister Simon Wicks , please .
PHONE VOICE: Ringing .
JACK: This is Jack Shaw . Could you send a clean-up crew to Heathrow . We 've had a rather nasty spill .
RAMIREZ: Oh God no
JACK: I understand Yes Good bye . He hangs up the phone .
RAMIREZ: Amos ?
JACK: He 's dead .
RAMIREZ: Why ? ! Why did n't you let me go back to him If we 'd have gotten him help sooner instead of instead of `` we had a rather nasty spill ! '' Is that what it was Jack ? Is that all Amos was a rather nasty spill , mop it up , it 'll be okay ? ! Huh ? !
JACK: He would have been dead anyway and he knew it . That 's why he told you to get out . Ramirez knows he 's right .
RAMIREZ: What ?
JACK: You 're going home it 's off fo the time being at least .
RAMIREZ: Bullshit ! I want him . I want that son of a bitch Carlos ! And I want him dead !
JACK: Tough shit what you want , Annibal . Koj had a ticket for Libya on him . Chances are he was n't looking fo you but
RAMIREZ: He was n't looking for me He thought I was Carlos !
JACK: That 's what I think too but the Director wants an operation review oard The DST shoot out the girl winds up dead in Paris now this I 've got to go back for the eview and you 've got to go home .
RAMIREZ: No way man it was my fault the whole thing I want him dead !
JACK: What do you mean it was your fault ?
RAMIREZ: When he asked me about the paper if I coulda just bullshitted my way
JACK: It was a password you did n't know it anything you would have tried would have backfired . I had a thing like that Awfully warm for this time of year the response was , yes but not as sticky as two summers ago the guy says anything else he even hesitates , you shoot him . I shot him There was nothing else you could have done .
RAMIREZ: I 'm not leavin ' till we get him .
JACK: Nobody 's askin ' you . They 're shuttin ' us down . You go back home maybe I 'll see you again maybe I wo n't . You 'll either hear from me or you 'll get new sea duty and that 's the end of it . Ramirez just looks at him shocked .
RAMIREZ: Just like that ?
JACK: Just like that . I ai n't the Madam kid I 'm just one of the whores . And so are you .
RAMIREZ: What 's wrong ?
MAURA: You 've been with another woman have n't you .
RAMIREZ: What are you talking about ?
MAURA: Have n't you ?
RAMIREZ: No . What what would make you say a thing like that ?
MAURA: You 're different
RAMIREZ: Maura I was on a submarine there are n't any women on submarines There was nothin ' to do but read . They had one of those how to improve your sex life books I must have read it about ten times . I tried out a couple of things from chapter three okay ? I mean if it did n't turn you on blame Doctor Ruth okay ?
MAURA: Okay .
RAMIREZ: Great . You want to check with the Navy to see if we had shore leave I 'll get you a fuckin ' letter okay ?
MAURA: I do n't need any letters . And I do n't need you to talk to me like that either . Ramirez gets up and zips up his fly .
RAMIREZ: Get somethin ' to eat I 'm starving . He exits .
MAURA: What ?
RAMIREZ: Where 's the car ? The car 's not in the garage . Where 's the car ?
MAURA: The fellow at the service station said it needed a tune up . I took it in this morning You did n't say you were going to need it .
RAMIREZ: Do n't do that anymore .
MAURA: What ?
RAMIREZ: I do n't want anybody workin ' on the car . Car needs something I 'll do it . But I do n't want anybody touchin ' that car .
MAURA: Why ? What difference does it make .
RAMIREZ: It makes a difference to me okay ? So do n't do it .
MAURA: Did you check the mail ?
RAMIREZ: Yeah I checked the mail . Still nothin ' from the Navy . Why , you so anxious to get rid of me ?
MAURA: I do n't want you goin ' back to those subs . I 'll tell you that .
RAMIREZ: Yeah well I do n't have much to say about it . It 's the Navy you know .
MAURA: You can request another assignment . It 's changed you Annibal . It 's hurting us .
RAMIREZ: What 's hurting us ?
MAURA: Your attitude that 's what hurting us .
RAMIREZ: My attitude . I do n't have an attitude man you got an attitude .
MAURA: You 're suspicious of everything that goes on you snap at Joey , you snap at me . I do n't like it .
RAMIREZ: Look I just it 's hard gettin ' used to you know it 's hard Listen tomorrow 's Joey 's game . Let 's just go to Joey 's game . It 'll e nice . It 'll be like it always was . You 'll see . He holds her to him .
JOEY: Keep my eye on the ball .
RAMIREZ: And who 's the guy who wins ?
JOEY: Whoever has fun , wins .
RAMIREZ: Right ! So you go out there and have fun .
FRANK: I do n't want so see you out there dickin ' around today , you understand ?
TYLER: Yes sir .
FRANK: You 're gon na be focused and aggressive and you 're gon na play to win . Got it ? Tyler is still staring at his toes .
RAMIREZ: Hey pal , lighten up , what do you say ? It 's just a game ?
FRANK: What did you say ?
RAMIREZ: I said lighten up . It 's just a game and he 's just a kid .
FRANK: He 's my kid .
RAMIREZ: Great . So why do n't we let our kids have a good time . Come on , I 'll buy you a beer .
FRANK: I do n't need you to buy me a fuckin ' eer , you piece of shit . And you stick your face in my business again and I 'll beat the living fuck out of you . What do you say to that ?
RAMIREZ: A dead man But before Ramirez can move , we HEAR
MAURA: Annibal please . Let 's go sit down .
FRANK: Good idea , Annabelle . Your ol ' lady just saved your ass .
MAURA: Annibal please Please
FRANK: What are you doin ' standing here ? ! You 're supposed to be over there with your team ! Now move !
CAPTAIN: He 's all yours .
JACK: Little League , huh ? Tough game .
RAMIREZ: What are you doing here ?
JACK: It 's show time .
RAMIREZ: I got to have time to think it over .
JACK: There is n't any time . He 's on his way to East Berlin . We have word he 's planning another attack in Europe . He 'll be there maybe fou days at the most .
RAMIREZ: Hey , I do n't know what to do anymore , okay ? I almost killed some little kid 's father today . I do n't know about anything anymore .
JACK: Hey , he was a baseball dad . He deserved it . Besides , from what I heard his kid was out , so what 's the eef ?
RAMIREZ: I do n't know if I could come back from it again .
JACK: What happened to I want the son of a itch dead ? You think Carlos has had a change of heart and turned nice all of a sudden ?
RAMIREZ: Do n't tell me about Carlos , Jack . I know exactly who Carlos is . I know a hell of a lot better than you do . But , maybe there 's more important things to me , like keepin ' from goin ' crazy like gettin ' back to bein ' me instead of me bein ' some kind of fuckin ' maniac .
JACK: You want to get back to bein ' you ? Then finish it . Kill him . Kill him and he 's dead and it 's over with . You walk away from it now and what do you think you 're gon na be like the next time you read that that son of a bitch blew up some airplane full of women and kids .
RAMIREZ: Hey , the guy deserves to be dead . I know that .
JACK: This is n't abstract , Annibal . You 're walkin ' around with his face . Soone or later one of the bad guys is gon na see it like Koj did , and next time Amos wo n't be there to take the bullet for you . Carlos does n't forget . You help me get him or you 're never gon na know when he 's comin ' after you Listen to me kid . I do n't have any friends , no family , no nothin ' . The only relationships I ever had that mattered to me were with the people I killed . But I I fucking created you ! You ca n't just walk away now .
RAMIREZ: You did create me , did n't you From the beginning that kid in the hospital in Bethesda when I was supposed to be the doctor It was all bullshit , was n't it ? All an act
JACK: This does n't have anything to do with you and me . It 's you and Carlos . You help me kill him or I swea to you I 'll make sure he knows about you I 'll use you for bait . You and your whole fuckin ' family too .
MAURA: No ! I wo n't let you do it ! You 're not going back to those subs ! It 's changed you You need help , Annibal . You could get some kind of stress disability or
RAMIREZ: Enough !
MAURA: No , not enough . Whatever is going on out there with your job
RAMIREZ: With my job ! ? What do you think my job is , Maura huh ? What do you think is out there ? A nice , pretty safe little world with shopping malls and little league and ballet lessons . You sit here in your little kitchen and cook your little meals
JACK: We used a double agent to get word to the Russians that Carlos is really here to close his deal with us and not to plan a new attack in Europe . He has a new girlfriend He 's been fucking her brains out since he got here . He has her brought over every night in a limo . You 'll be dropped near the mansion as soon as she goes in , you make as if you 're sneaking out the Russians will be watching . You 'll go to the meet . It 's at that beer hall , there see ? You see it ?
RAMIREZ: Got it .
JACK: You go to the meet at the beer hall . Play it out let 'em take you picture then you 've got to get ack . They 're going to have to analyze the pictures and see through you disguise before they can authorize a hit . They wo n't be able to do that efore you 're able to get back to the mansion . At twenty-one fifteen a Volga with diplomatic plates , DC- four-five-nine-two will come by the northeast corner of the compound . It will slow down you jump in . If you ca n't make it for any reason , there will be another run at exactly twenty-one forty-five . It 's you only ticket out so do n't be late .
RAMIREZ: Who do I meet ? Who 's my contact ?
JACK: Me My ass is on the line too .
RAMIREZ: Who cares ? This is n't you and me . It 's me and him . If the Russians do n't go for the bait for any eason
JACK: If the Russians do n't go for the ait for any reason you will have gotten out of there at twenty-one fifteen per orders .
RAMIREZ: If the Russians do n't go for the ait for any reason , I 'll go in there and kill him myself . And if I 'm still alive I might just come looking fo you .
IVAN: Andrei picks up his camera .
JACK: Come on come on
RAMIREZ: Not till he 's dead , Jack . Not till he 's dead .
JACK: Shit .
TECHNICIAN: The Head KGB Officer turns to his Aide .
RAMIREZ: Do n't blow it Comrades kill him .
CARLOS: KGB ? I thought
BLONDE: It 's true . All night
CARLOS: I 'll prove it to you . You 'll be pleading for my forgiveness . Let 's just go . I want to be interrogated . I demand to be interrogated .
RAMIREZ: What the fuck ?
RAMIREZ: Kill him Kill him
JACK: Let 's get the fuck out of here .
RAMIREZ: Any word ?
JACK: How you feeling ?
RAMIREZ: Did he get away ?
JACK: No it was n't . He 's finished . The KGB ought it . As far as they 're concerned , he 's the enemy now . He 'll ounce around from one country to the next . But his paymasters have disowned him . None of their client states will risk using him . No one 'll trust him again . He 'll spend the est of his life looking over his shoulder waiting to be betrayed . And it 'll happen sooner or later when it 's to some country 's advantage they 'll give him up o they 'll trade him . He 's finished . It worked and he 's finished .
RAMIREZ: Not for me he is n't There are still two of us
MAURA: Is it over ?
RAMIREZ: No .
MAURA: No .
RAMIREZ: Maura , anytime I start a car I 'll wonder if this is the one that explodes . I could n't bear the thought of you and the children being in that danger . He 'll want me and everyone I 've ever loved to be dead . Trust me I know how he thinks ecause it 's the way I think now too . I am so sorry . I am so sorry
MAURA: I wo n't leave you .
RAMIREZ: Maura , when my father was put into prison he told my mother to take me and leave and start a new life . That 's what you 've got to do .
MAURA: You 're not in prison and I 'm not your mother and I wo n't leave you . I will not let him do this to us . Not him not the CIA not anyone .
RAMIREZ: He 'll come after me .
MAURA: Get me a gun and teach me to shoot and he 'll have to deal with both of us . This animal will not destroy my family . Please come home .
CRAWFORD: How does one even begin to comprehend a tragedy like this . A highly espected Naval officer returns from six months of hazardous duty . He has escaped the danger we all come to know in the service of our country . He is about to go to church with his eloved family and in an instant they are no more . They are with God . Our minds can not comprehend such tragedy only an undying faith in the Almighty a faith that says even though we can not see it , there is a plan . That and the knowledge that as in life , so for eternity are they together
JACK: Now you 're free .
POSTMAN: Mister Mendoza ?
MENDOZA: Yes .
POSTMAN: Special delivery letter for you sir .
MENDOZA: Someone died .
POSTMAN: I 'm so sorry .
MENDOZA: This guy 's better off dead .
POSTMAN: No one is better off dead I think .
MENDOZA: Some people are . He tips the postman and closes the door .
JOEY: Poppi come down and play with us .
DR. MUHAMMED: You 're quite early . I was n't expecting you for another half an hour .
CARLOS: I like to be unannounced . It 's safe that way .
DR. MUHAMMED: Yes , yes , of course . If you 'll just have a seat . I 've done everything as you said . My assistant has been let go for the day . I 'll administer the anesthetic myself . I assure you sir , you are completely safe here .
CARLOS: I know .
DOCTOR: Feeling drowsy now ?
CARLOS: Yes
DOCTOR: Would you like to see what your new face is going to look like when we 're done ?
CARLOS: Yes of course .
DOCTOR: It 's going to look just like this
BEVERLY: Not hard to imagine , faced with Eliot 's first wife , lovely Viv , how Crane or Berryman might have reacted , just foot-raced to the nearest bridge ; Olympian Suicidalists .
JOHNNA: Yes , sir .
BEVERLY: May I ask how ?
JOHNNA: He had a heart attack . Fell into a flatbed truck full of wine grapes .
BEVERLY: Wine grapes . In Oklahoma . I 'm sorry .
VIOLET: Bev ? !
BEVERLY: Yes ?
BEVERLY: No
VIOLET: Am I looking through window ? A window ?
BEVERLY: Can you come here ?
VIOLET: Oh . Hello .
BEVERLY: Johnna , the young woman I told you about .
VIOLET: You tell me she 's a woman . Wo-man . Whoa-man .
BEVERLY: That I 'm hiring
VIOLET: Oh , you hire women 's now the thing . I thought you meant the other woman .
BEVERLY: To cook and clean , take you to the clinic and to the
VIOLET: In the int'rest of civil action , your par-tic-u-lars way of speak- king , I thought you meant you had thought a whoa-man to be HIRED !
BEVERLY: I do n't understand you .
VIOLET: Hello .
JOHNNA: Hello .
VIOLET: I 'm sorry . Like this .
JOHNNA: Yes , ma'am .
VIOLET: You 're very pretty .
JOHNNA: Thank you .
VIOLET: Are you an Indian ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 6 .
JOHNNA: Yes , ma'am .
VIOLET: Do you think I 'm pretty ?
JOHNNA: Yes , ma'am .
VIOLET: Likethis ? Like this ? She stumbles , catches herself .
BEVERLY: Careful
VIOLET: You 're the house now . I 'm sorry , I took some medicine for my mussss muscular .
BEVERLY: Why do n't you go back to bed , sweetheart ?
VIOLET: Why do n't you go fuck a fucking sow 's ass ?
BEVERLY: All right .
VIOLET: I 'm sorry . I 'll be sickly sweet . I 'm soooooooo sweet . In-el-abrially sweet .
BEVERLY: We keep unusual hours here . Try not to differentiate between night and day . You wo n't be able to keep a healthy routine .
JOHNNA: I need the work .
BEVERLY: I myself require very little attention , thrive without it , sort of a human cactus . My wife has been diagnosed with a touch of cancer , so she 'll need to be driven to Tulsa fo her final chemotherapy treatments . You 're welcome to use that American- made behemoth parked out in the drive . Welcome to make use of anything , everything , all this garbage we 've acquired , our life 's work . Do you have any questions ?
JOHNNA: What kind of cancer ?
BEVERLY: My God , I nearly neglected the punch line mouth cancer .
JOHNNA: What pills does she take ?
BEVERLY: Valium . Vicodin . Darvon , Darvocet . Percodan , Percocet . Xanax for fun . OxyContin in a pinch . And of course Diluadid . I ca n't forget Diluadid .
JEAN: Mom ? A sound from the body , still no movement .
BARBARA: Mmm
JEAN: You did n't hear the phone ?
BARBARA: If it 's your father , tell him to fuck off .
JEAN: It 's Aunt Ivy in Oklahoma .
BARBARA: Ivy ? what 's wrong ?
IVY: Mom ? Mom ?
VIOLET: You 've been out there ?
IVY: She 's on her way .
VIOLET: What 'd you tell her ?
IVY: I told her Dad was missing . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 11 .
VIOLET: Did you tell her how long he 'd been missing ?
IVY: Five days .
VIOLET: What did she say ?
IVY: She said she was on her way .
VIOLET: Goddamn it , Ivy , what did she say ?
IVY: She said she was on her way .
VIOLET: You 're hopeless . Goddamn your father for putting me through this . Seen that office of his , all that mess ? I ca n't make heads o tails of it . He hired this Indian fo some goddamn reason and now I have a stranger in my house . What 's her name ?
IVY: Johnna . Who was on the phone ?
VIOLET: This house is falling apart , something about the basement or the sump pump o the foundation . I do n't know anything about it . I ca n't do this by myself .
IVY: I called Karen .
VIOLET: What did she say ?
IVY: She said she 'd try to get here .
VIOLET: She 'll be a big fat help , just like you .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 12 .
IVY: What 's Barb going to be able to do ?
VIOLET: What did you do to your hair ?
IVY: I had it straightened .
VIOLET: You had it straightened . Why would anybody do that ?
IVY: I just wanted a change .
VIOLET: You 're the prettiest of my three girls , but you always look like a schlub . Why do n't you wear makeup ?
IVY: Do I need makeup ?
VIOLET: All women need makeup . Do n't let anybody tell you different . The only woman who was pretty enough to go without makeup was Elizabeth Taylo and she wore a ton . Stand up straight .
IVY: Mom .
VIOLET: Your shoulders are slumped and you hair 's all straight and you do n't wea makeup . You look like a lesbian . Violet takes another pill .
IVY: I 'm not looking for a man . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 13 .
VIOLET: There are a lot of losers out there , do n't think I do n't know that . But just because you got a bad one last time does n't mean
IVY: Barry was n't a loser .
VIOLET: Barry was an asshole . I warned you from the jump , first time you brought him over here in his little electric car with his stupid orange hair and that turban
IVY: It was n't a turban
VIOLET: You work at a college . Do n't tell me there are n't people coming through the door of that library every day .
IVY: You want me to marry some eighteen year old boy from one of these hick towns ?
VIOLET: They still have teachers at TU , right ? They did when your father taught there . Violet takes another pill .
IVY: I was n't counting . Violet takes another pill .
VIOLET: Like a son-of-a-bitch . My tongue is on fire .
IVY: Are you supposed to be smoking ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 14 .
VIOLET: Is anybody supposed to smoke ?
IVY: You have cancer of the mouth .
VIOLET: Just leave it alone .
VIOLET: Course I 'm scared . And you are a comfort , sweetheart . Thank God one of my girls stayed close to home .
IVY: Aunt Mattie Fae 's here .
VIOLET: She means to come in here and tell me what 's what .
IVY: I do n't know how Uncle Charlie puts up with it .
VIOLET: He smokes a lot of grass .
IVY: He does ?
VIOLET: He smokes a lot of grass .
MATTIE FAE: I told Vi , `` Take all those goddamn ooks he 's so fond of and make a big pile in the front yard and have yourself a bonfire . ''
CHARLIE: You do n't burn a man 's books .
MATTIE FAE: You do , if the situation calls for it .
CHARLIE: The man 's books did n't do anything .
MATTIE FAE: You get any ideas about just up and taking off , Charlie Aiken , you bette elieve
CHARLIE: I 'm not going anywhere .
MATTIE FAE: I 'm saying if you did , I 'll give you two days to get your head straight and then it 's all going up in a blaze of glory . Not that you have any books lying around . I do n't think I 've eve seen you read a book in my life .
CHARLIE: That bother you ?
MATTIE FAE: What 's the last book you read ?
CHARLIE: Beverly was a teacher ; teachers read ooks , I 'm in the upholstery business .
MATTIE FAE: Ah , sweetie . Your daddy 's done this efore . Just takes off , no call , nothing . I told your mother , `` You pack that son-of-a-bitch 's bags and have ` em waiting for him on the front porch . '' Mattie Fae sweeps past Ivy into the `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 16 .
IVY: Upstairs .
CHARLIE: They 've always had trouble , Ivy .
MATTIE FAE: He 'll come back again , I know he will , he always does . Beverly is a very complicated man .
IVY: Kind of like Charles .
CHARLIE: Yes , like Little Charles . Exactly
MATTIE FAE: Oh . He 's nothing like Little Charles .
CHARLIE: She just means in their sort of quiet complicated ways
MATTIE FAE: Little Charles is n't complicated , he 's just unemployed .
CHARLIE: He 's an observer .
MATTIE FAE: All he observes is the television . Why is it so dark in here ?
CHARLIE: So you ca n't even see Ivy 's point ? That Little Charles and Beverly share some kind of complication .
MATTIE FAE: You have to be smart to be complicated . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 17 .
CHARLIE: Are you saying our boy is n't smart ?
MATTIE FAE: Yes , that 's what I 'm saying .
CHARLIE: Hell , yes , I 'm sweating , it 's ninety degrees in here .
MATTIE FAE: Feel my back .
CHARLIE: I do n't want to feel your back .
MATTIE FAE: Sweat is just dripping down my back .
CHARLIE: I believe you .
MATTIE FAE: Feel it .
CHARLIE: No .
MATTIE FAE: Come on , put your hand here
CHARLIE: Goddamn it
MATTIE FAE: Sweat 's just dripping
IVY: Been a couple of years now . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 18 .
MATTIE FAE: Is it that long since we 've been here ?
CHARLIE: Do you know its purpose ? You ca n't tell if it 's night or day .
IVY: I think that 's the purpose .
CHARLIE: Do n't do that . This is n't your place .
MATTIE FAE: The body needs sunlight .
VIOLET: They checked the hospitals , no Beverly .
VIOLET: No , the sheriff , the Gilbeau boy .
IVY: What else did he say ?
VIOLET: The boat 's missing .
IVY: Dad 's boat ?
VIOLET: I asked the sheriff to send a deputy out to the dock to check if anybody had seen him and his boat is gone .
JEAN: I 'm gon na grab a smoke .
BARBARA: You 've encouraged that .
BILL: I have n't encouraged anything .
BARBARA: You admire her for getting hooked at fourteen , makes her seem even more mature . Barbara climbs out . Bill follows .
BILL: Suppose your mom 's turned on the ai conditioner ?
BARBARA: You kidding ? Remember the parakeets ?
BILL: The parakeets ?
BARBARA: I did n't tell you about the parakeets ? She got a parakeet for some insane eason , and the little fucker croaked after two days . So she went to the pet store and raised hell and they gave her another parakeet . That one died after one day .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 21 .
BILL: And ?
BARBARA: The heat . It was too hot . They were dying from the heat .
BILL: Jesus .
BARBARA: These are tropical birds , all right ? They live in the fucking tropics .
BILL: Are you ready for this ?
BARBARA: No . No way .
CHARLIE: Violet 's a Clapton fan ?
MATTIE FAE: Goddam it , she 's not a waitress . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 22 .
CHARLIE: I know that .
MATTIE FAE: Then get your own beer .
JOHNNA: I 'll get it .
MATTIE FAE: I do n't believe you . Watchin ' a ball game , drinkin ' beers . You have any sense of what 's going on around you ?
CHARLIE: Am I supposed to sit here like a statue ? You 're drinking whiskey .
MATTIE FAE: I 'm having a cocktail .
CHARLIE: You 're drinking straight whiskey !
MATTIE FAE: Just show a little class .
BARBARA: Mom ?
BILL: Hi , Charlie .
MATTIE FAE: Oh my gosh , will you look at this one ? Come here and give your Aunt Mattie Fae some sugar ! `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 23 .
BARBARA: Hi , Uncle Charlie .
CHARLIE: How was the flight from Denver ?
BILL: Fine
VIOLET: Barb
BARBARA: It 's okay , Mom . I 'm here , I 'm here . Shh , it 's okay , I 'm here .
BILL: No word then ?
BARBARA: Did you see Bill and Jean ? Violet takes them in , disoriented .
VIOLET: Yes . Hi , Bill .
BILL: Hello , Violet .
VIOLET: I 'm just so scared .
MATTIE FAE: Of course you are , poor thing . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 24 .
VIOLET: Well , look at you .
MATTIE FAE: Is n't she the limit ? Look at he oobs !
JEAN: O-kay , we 've all stared at my tits now .
MATTIE FAE: They 're just so darn big .
VIOLET: You 're just the prettiest thing . Thank you for coming to see me .
BARBARA: Ivy , I did n't see you up there . Ivy , still standing above on the stairs .
IVY: It looked crowded .
BARBARA: God , you look good . Does n't she look good , Bill ?
VIOLET: She had it straightened . Barbara , or Bill , it does n't matter , I need you to go through Beverly 's things , help me with this paperwork .
BARBARA: Well we can do that , Mom .
IVY: I was going to help with
VIOLET: No , now that desk of his is such a mess and I get confused `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 25 .
BILL: I 'll take care of it , Violet
BARBARA: Which room are you in ?
MATTIE FAE: We 're gon na head home soon .
VIOLET: You 're going back to Tulsa ?
MATTIE FAE: We have to , we left in such a rush we did n't get anyone to take care of the damn dogs . Anyway , I know you want to spend some time with these girls .
VIOLET: How about Little Charles , ca n't he take care of the dogs ?
CHARLIE: Well , yeah , I guess he could
MATTIE FAE: We talked about this .
BARBARA: Mom , can Jean stay in the attic ?
VIOLET: No , that 's where what's-her-name lives .
IVY: Johnna .
BARBARA: Who 's Johnna ?
VIOLET: She 's the Indian who lives in my attic .
BARBARA: She 's the what ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 26 .
JEAN: Hi
JOHNNA: Hello .
JEAN: I like your necklace . A beaded pouch in the shape of a turtle .
JEAN: Did you make that ?
JOHNNA: My grandma .
JEAN: Is there something in it ?
JOHNNA: My umbilical cord . Jean recoils . Johnna smiles .
JEAN: Ewww , are you serious ?
JOHNNA: When a Cheyenne is born , thei umbilical cord is dried and sewn into a pouch . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 27 .
JEAN: You 're Cheyenne . Like that movie Powwow Highway . Did you see that ?
BILL: This was when ?
VIOLET: Saturday morning . The Indian girl made us biscuits and gravy . We ate some , he walked out the door , this door right there . Got into his truck . And that was it .
BARBARA: He just left ?
VIOLET: I went to bed Saturday night , got up Sunday still no Beverly . I did n't make much of it , thought he 'd gone out on a bender .
BARBARA: Why would he do that ? Not like he could n't drink at home . Unless you were riding his ass .
VIOLET: I never said anything to him about his drinking , never got on him about it . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 28 .
BARBARA: Really .
VILOET: Barbara , I swear . He could drink himself into obliv-uh , obliv-en-um
BARBARA: Oblivion .
BILL: So Sunday , still no sign of him
VIOLET: Yes , Sunday . No sign . I started getting worried , don'tcha know . That 's when I got worked up about that safety deposit box . We kept an awful lot of cash in that box , some expensive jewelry . I had a diamond ing in that box appraised at seven thousand dollars
BARBARA: Wait , wait , wait , I 'm missing something . Why do you care about a safety deposit box ?
VIOLET: Well , I know what you 'll say about this , but , your father and I had an urge-ment arrangement . If something were to ever happen to one of us , the other one would go empty that box .
BARBARA: Because
BILL: The money and jewelry gets rolled into the estate , bank seals the box until probate is settled . Can take months .
VIOLET: Right , that 's right
BARBARA: You 're such a fucking cynic . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 29 .
VIOLET: I knew you would disapprove
BARBARA: Okay , what about the safety deposit ox ?
VIOLET: I had to wait for the bank to open on Monday . And after I emptied that box , I called the police and reported him missing . Monday morning .
BARBARA: And you only had Ivy call me today ?
VIOLET: I did n't want to worry you , honey
BILL: Yes .
VIOLET: No . And we fought enough you know but no , he just left .
BARBARA: Maybe he needed some time away from you .
VIOLET: That 's nice of you to say .
BARBARA: Good old unfathomable Dad .
VIOLET: Oh . That man . What I first fell of with fell in love with , you know , was his mystery . I thought it was sexy as hell .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 30 .
BILL: You ca n't think of anything unusual
VIOLET: He hired this woman . He did n't ask me , just hired this woman to come live in our house . Few days before he left .
BARBARA: You do n't want her here .
VIOLET: She 's a stranger in my house . There 's an Indian in my house .
BILL: You have a problem with Indians , Violet ?
VIOLET: I do n't know what to say to an Indian .
BARBARA: They 're called Native Americans now , Mom .
VIOLET: Who makes that decision ?
BARBARA: It 's what they like to be called . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 31 .
VIOLET: They are n't any more native than me .
BARBARA: In fact , they are .
VIOLET: What 's wrong with Indian ?
BARBARA: Why 's it so hard to call people
VIOLET: Let 's just call the dinosaurs `` Native Americans '' while we 're at it .
BARBARA: She may be an Indian , but she makes the best goddamn apple pie I ever ate .
VIOLET: He hired a cook . It does n't make any sense . We do n't eat .
BARBARA: And now you get biscuits and gravy . Kind of nice , huh ?
VIOLET: Nice for you , now . But you 'll be gone soon enough , never to return .
BARBARA: Mom
VIOLET: When was the last time you were here ?
BARBARA: I 'm very dutiful , Mom , I call , I write , I send presents
VIOLET: You do not write `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 32 .
BARBARA: Presents on birthdays , Mother 's Day
VIOLET: Because you 're `` dutiful . ''
BILL: All right , now
VIOLET: I do n't care about you two . I 'd like to see my granddaughter every now
BARBARA: Well , you 're seeing her now .
VIOLET: But your father . You broke his heart when you moved away .
BARBARA: That is wildly unfair .
VIOLET: I 'm sure you 'd prefer to think that Santy Claus brought you presents at Christmas , too . If you 'd had more than one child , you 'd know a parent always has favorites . Mattie Fae was my mother 's favorite . Big deal . I got used to it . You were your Daddy 's favorite . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 33 .
BARBARA: What was I supposed to do ? ! Colorado gave Bill twice the money he was making at TU
BILL: Why are we even getting into this ?
BARBARA: You think Daddy would n't have jumped at the chance Bill got ?
VIOLET: You 're wrong there . You never would 've gotten Beverly Weston out of Oklahoma .
BARBARA: Daddy gave me his blessing .
VIOLET: ` S what he told you .
BARBARA: Now you 're going to tell me the true story , some terrible shit Daddy said ehind my back ?
BILL: Hey , enough . Everybody 's on edge
VIOLET: Beverly did n't say terrible things ehind your back
BILL: Vi , come on
VIOLET: He just told me he 's disappointed in
BARBARA: Daddy never said anything like that to you . What a load of absolute horseshit . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 34 .
VIOLET: Oh , horseshit , horseshit , let 's all say horseshit . Say horseshit , Bill .
BILL: Horseshit .
BARBARA: Are you high ?
VIOLET: Excuse me .
BARBARA: I mean literally . You taking something ?
VIOLET: A muscle relaxer .
BARBARA: Listen to me I will not go through this with you again .
VIOLET: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
VIOLET: Stop yelling at me !
BARBARA: The police , all the rest of it ?
VIOLET: It 's not the same thing . I did n't have a reason .
BARBARA: So now it 's okay to get hooked because you have a reason . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 35 .
VIOLET: I 'm not hooked on anything .
BARBARA: I do n't want to know if you are o not , I 'm just saying I wo n't go
VIOLET: I 'm not . I 'm in pain .
BARBARA: Because of your mouth .
VIOLET: Yes , because my mouth burns from the chemotheeeahh
BARBARA: Are you in a lot of pain ?
VIOLET: Yes , I 'm in pain . I have got gotten cancer . In my mouth . And it urns like a bullshit . And Beverly 's disappeared and you 're yelling at me .
BARBARA: I 'm not yelling at you .
VIOLET: You could n't come home when I got cancer but as soon as Beverly disappeared you rushed back
BARBARA: I 'm sorry you 're right . I 'm sorry . Barbara kneels , takes her mother 's hand .
JEAN: Hi , again Am I bugging you ?
JOHNNA: No , do you need something ?
JEAN: No , I thought maybe you 'd like to smoke a bowl with me ?
JOHNNA: No , thank you .
JEAN: Okay . I did n't know . Do you mind if I smoke a bowl ?
JOHNNA: I . No , I
JEAN: Mom and Dad do n't mind . You wo n't get into trouble or anything . Johnna is clearly a bit uncomfortable . But
JOHNNA: Okay .
JEAN: Okay . You sure ?
JOHNNA: I do n't think so .
JEAN: I just mean they do n't mind that I smoke pot . Mom kind of does . I think cause Dad smokes pot too , and she wishes he did n't . You sure ?
JOHNNA: Yes . No . I 'm fine .
JEAN: Wow , are those your parents ?
JOHNNA: Mm-hm , their wedding picture .
JEAN: Their costumes are fantastic . Are they still together ?
JOHNNA: My father passed away last year .
JEAN: Oh . Sorry .
JOHNNA: That 's okay . Thank you .
JEAN: Were you close ?
JOHNNA: Yes . Very .
JEAN: My Mom and Dad are separated now .
JOHNNA: I 'm sorry . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 38 .
JEAN: He 's fucking one of his grad students . I do n't care aside from the pathetic English and Humanities cliche , like all those departmental dicks fucking their students he can fuck who he wants and that 's who teachers meet , students . He was just a turd the way he did n't give Mom a chance to respond or anything . What sucks now is she 's on my ass cause she 's afraid I 'll have some post-divorce freak-out and become some heroin addict or shoot everybody at school . Or God forbid , lose my virginity . I do n't know what it is about Dad splitting that put Mom on hymen patrol . Do n't say anything about Mom and Dad ; okay ? They want to play it low key .
BILL: Ivy leave ?
BARBARA: I 'd forgotten about the lightning ugs .
BILL: Look what I found
BARBARA: We have copies .
BILL: I do n't remember a hardback edition . Think this is worth something first edition , hardback , mint condition ? Academy Fellowship , Wallace Stevens Award ? This book was a big deal .
BARBARA: It was n't that big a deal .
BILL: In those circles , it was .
BARBARA: Those are small circles .
BILL: `` Dedicated to my Violet . '' That 's nice . Christ , probably every word he wrote after this he had to be thinking , `` What are they going to say , are they going to compare it to Meadowlark ? ''
BARBARA: Jean go to bed ?
BILL: Just turned out the light . You 'd think at some point , you just write something anyway and who cares what they say about it . I do n't know
BARBARA: Will you shut up about that fucking ook ? ! You are just dripping with envy over these thirty poems my fathe wrote back in the late sixties , fo God 's sake . Y'hear yourself ?
BILL: I have great admiration for these poems `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 40 .
BARBARA: My father did n't write anymore for a lot of reasons , but critical opinion was not one of them , hard as that may e for you to believe .
BILL: What are you attacking me for ? I have n't done anything .
BARBARA: I 'm sure that 's what you tell Sissy , too , so she can comfort you , reassure you , `` No , Billy , you have n't done anything . ''
BILL: Why are you bringing that up ?
BARBARA: They 're all symptoms of your male menopause , whether it 's you struggling with the `` creative question , '' or screwing a girl who still wears a retainer .
BILL: All right , look , I 'm not going to be held hostage here while you attack me . And her name is Cindy .
BARBARA: I know her stupid name do me the courtesy of recognizing when I 'm demeaning you .
BILL: Violet really has a way of putting you in attack mode , you know that ? You feel such rage for her you ca n't help dishing it
BARBARA: Psychoanalyze me right now , I skin you .
BILL: You may not agree with my methods , ut you know I 'm right `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 41 .
BARBARA: `` Your methods . '' Thank you , Doctor , ut I actually do n't need any help from my mother to feel rage .
BILL: You want to argue ? Is that what you need to do ? Pick a subject , alright , let me know what it is , so I have a fighting
BARBARA: The subject is me ! I am the subject , you narcissistic motherfucker ! I am in pain ! I need help !
BILL: I 've copped to being a narcissist . We 're the products of a narcissistic generation .
BARBARA: You ca n't do it , can you ? You ca n't talk about me for two seconds
BILL: You called me a narcissist !
BARBARA: You do understand that it hurts , to go from sharing a bed with you for twenty-three years to sleeping y myself .
BILL: I 'm here , now . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 42 .
BARBARA: Oh , men always say shit like that , as if the past and the future do n't exist .
BILL: I 'm not necessarily keen on the notion of saying things that would hurt you .
BARBARA: Like what ?
BILL: We have enough on our hands with you parents right now , let 's not revisit this .
BARBARA: When did we visit this to begin with ? I still do n't know what happened . Do I bore you , intimidate you , disgust you ? Is this just about the pleasures of young flesh , teenage pussy ? I eally need to know .
BILL: You need to know now ? With Beverly missing , and your mother crazy as a loon ? You want to do this now ?
BARBARA: You 're right . I 'll just hunker down for a cozy night 's sleep upstairs . Next to my husband .
BILL: This discussion deserves our care . And patience . We 'll both be in a etter frame of mind to talk about this once your father 's come home . Bill turns , starts back for the house . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 43 .
BARBARA: Mom ?
VIOLET: Did you call them ? I dig in call them .
BARBARA: Mom . The sheriff is here .
VIOLET: Inna esther ?
BARBARA: What ?
VIOLET: Inna esther broke . ` N pays me ` emsturckstruck .
BILL: Come on . Leave her there .
SHERIFF: Couple old boys running jug lines in the lake hooked him . Pulled him up .
BILL: He drowned . That 's how he died , from drowning ?
SHERIFF: Looks it . Yes , sir .
BILL: Is there any way to determine if he I mean is this an accident , or suicide ?
SHERIFF: There 's really no way to tell .
BILL: What 's your guess ?
SHERIFF: Suicide .
BILL: How does a a person jump in the water and choose not to swim ?
JEAN: What about Aunt Ivy ?
BARBARA: I guess we 'll stop on the way . Christ , I need to call Karen , too . Why the fuck am I brushing my hair ?
VIOLET: Izza story . Barely 's back . Did sum Beer-ley come home ?
SHERIFF: Ma'am ?
VIOLET: Gizza cig some cigezze ? Cig-zezz , cig-zizz cig-uhzzz
BARBARA: Right here , Mom
VIOLET: Mm , good beat , right ? Id n't it 's a good beat ?
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 47 .
JEAN: What man ? The Sheriff ?
BARBARA: In high school . He was my prom date .
JEAN: You 're kidding .
BARBARA: Day of the prom , his father got drunk and stole his car , stole his own son 's car , went somewhere , Mexico . Deon showed up at the door . He 'd been crying . Confessed he did n't have a way to take me to the prom . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 48 .
BILL: Let me go first , see what they need . Bill goes . Barb fixes Jean with a look .
BARBARA: Listen to me die after me , all right ? I do n't care what else you do , where you go , how you screw up your life , just survive . Outlive me , please .
JEAN: Kind of
BARBARA: That must be this year 's man . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 50 .
KAREN: I mean I 'd kiss my pillow , and then I 'd tell him I 'd been to the docto that day and I 'd found out I was pregnant . I know how pathetic that sounds , but it was innocent enough . Then real life takes over , cause it always does
BARBARA: uh-huh
KAREN: Things do n't work out like you planned . That pillow was a bette husband than any real man I 'd eve met ; this parade of men fails to live up to your expectations , all of them so much less than Daddy or Bill . You punish yourself , tell yourself it 's your fault you ca n't find a good one . I do n't know how well you remembe Andrew
BARBARA: No , I remember . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 51 .
KAREN: I loved him so intensely , so the things he did wrong were just opportunities for me to make things ight . If he cheated on me or called me a cunt , I 'd think `` No , love is forever , so here 's an opportunity to make an adjustment in the way you view the world . ''
BARBARA: And Scientology too , right , o something like that ?
KAREN: Exactly , and finally one day , I threw it all out , I said , `` It 's me , just me with my music on the stereo , my glass of wine and Bloomers my cat . I do n't need anything else , I can live my life with myself . '' I got my license , threw myself into my work , sold a lot of houses , and that 's when I met Steve .
BARBARA: Like your father drowning himself .
KAREN: That 's exactly what I mean . You take it as it comes , here and now ! Steve had a huge presentation today for some ig-wig government guys who could be important for his business , something he 's put together for months , and as soon as we heard about Daddy , he cancelled his meeting . He has his priorities straight . And you know what the kicker is ? Do you know what the kicker ?
BARBARA: What 's the kicker ?
KAREN: We 're going to Belize on ou honeymoon !
BARBARA: Sorry . Hot flash .
VIOLET: It wo n't kill you to try it on `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 53 .
MATTIE FAE: Oh , this is a sweet one , Vi
IVY: I find this a tidge morbid , frankly
VIOLET: You do n't have a style , that 's the point .
MATTIE FAE: Where was this taken ?
VIOLET: New York . On the first book tour .
IVY: I do n't have your style , I have a style of my own .
VIOLET: You wore a suit to your father 's funeral . A woman does n't wear a suit to a funeral .
IVY: God , you 're weird ; it 's a black suit .
VIOLET: You look like a magician 's assistant .
MATTIE FAE: Little Charles has been talking about moving to New York . Can you picture that ?
VIOLET: Do n't discourage him now
MATTIE FAE: He would n't last a day in that city . They 'd tear him apart .
VIOLET: Stop being so sensitive .
MATTIE FAE: He overslept ? For his Uncle 's funeral ? A noon service ?
IVY: I 'm sure there 's more to the story
MATTIE FAE: Do n't make excuses for him . That 's what Charlie does . Thirty-seven years old and ca n't drive ? Who ca n't drive ?
IVY: Why are you giving away your clothes ?
VIOLET: All this shit 's going . I do n't plan to spend the rest of my days looking at what used to be . I want that shit in the office gone , I want these clothes I 'm never going to wear gone . I mean look at these fucking shoes Even if I did n't fall on my face , can you imagine anything less attractive , my swollen ankles and varicose veins ? And my toenails , good God anymore they could dig through cement .
KAREN: You get a read off Steve ? Did you like him ?
BARBARA: We said two words to each other `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 55 .
KAREN: You get a feel , though , do n't you ? Did you get a feel ?
BARBARA: He seemed very nice , sweetheart
KAREN: He is , and
BARBARA: but what I think does n't matter . I 'm not marrying him
KAREN: I guess what I 'm telling you is that I 'm happy . I 've been unhappy most of my life , my adult life . I doubt you 've been aware of that . I know ou lives have led us apart , you , me and Ivy . Maybe we 're not as close as , as close as some families
BARBARA: Yeah , we really need to talk about Mom , what to do about Mom
KAREN: but I think I have n't wanted to live my unhappiness in view of my family . But now I 'm just really happy . I 'd like us to get to know each other a little better .
BARBARA: Yes . Yes . Karen wraps her arms around Barbara .
JEAN: Hurry , okay ?
BILL: I will , sweetheart .
STEVE: Is it always this hot ?
JEAN: Usually it 's hotter .
STEVE: Hard to imagine . How old are you , about , seventeen ?
JEAN: Fourteen .
STEVE: Fourteen , right Know what I was doing when I was fourteen ? Cattle processing . Know what that is ?
JEAN: It does n't sound good .
STEVE: Slaughterhouse sanitation .
JEAN: That 's disgusting .
STEVE: I do n't recommend it . But hey . Put food on the table . Get it ?
JEAN: Dumpster over there ?
STEVE: Nah , that 's not what I 'm smelling . He sniffs the air , then sniffs her .
JEAN: What are you doing ?
STEVE: Do I smell what I think I smell ?
JEAN: What do you smell ?
STEVE: What do you think I smell ?
JEAN: I think you smell that dumpster . He whiffs , hard , breathing her in .
STEVE: Is that pot ? You smoking pot ?
JEAN: No .
STEVE: You can tell me .
JEAN: No .
STEVE: You a little dope smoker ? Then you are in luck . Because I just happen to have some tasty shit . And I am going to hook you up .
JEAN: That 'd be so great . I just smoked my last bowl and I really need to get fucked up .
STEVE: You what ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 58 .
JEAN: I really need to get fucked up
STEVE: You need to get what ?
JEAN: You 're bad
BILL: No Pinots , but they had some decent California Merlots .
VIOLET: Look at me . Look at me .
IVY: You 're beautiful , Mom .
VIOLET: I was beautiful . Not anymore .
MATTIE FAE: I beg your pardon ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 59 .
VIOLET: Think about the last time you went to the mall and saw some sweet little gal and thought she 's a cute trick . What makes her that way ? Taut skin , firm oobs , an ass above her knees .
MATTIE FAE: I 'm still very sexy , thank you very much .
VIOLET: You 're about as sexy as a wet card- oard box , Mattie Fae , you and me oth . Look , would n't we be better off if we stopped lying about these things and told the truth ? `` Women are n't sexy when they 're old . '' I can live with that . Can you live with that ?
MATTIE FAE: What about Sophia Loren ? What about Lena Horne ? She stayed sexy till she was eighty .
VIOLET: The world is round . Get over it . Now try this dress on .
IVY: I 'm sorry , I wo n't .
VIOLET: You do n't know how to attract a man . I do . That 's something I always
IVY: We just buried my father , I 'm not trying to attract !
VIOLET: I 'm not talking about today , dummy , this is something you can wear
IVY: I have a man . All right ? I have a man .
VIOLET: You said you were n't looking fo a man `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 60 .
IVY: And I 'm not . Because I have one . Okay ? Now will you leave it alone ?
VIOLET: Who is it ?
IVY: Nobody . Forget it
MATTIE FAE: Tell us , is he someone from school ? How old is he , what 's he do ?
IVY: I 'm not telling you anything so
MATTIE FAE: You have to tell us something !
IVY: No , I really do n't .
VIOLET: Are you in love , Ivy ?
IVY: II don'tI 'm
STEVE: No , we maintain the accounts off- shore , just until we get approvals .
BILL: To get around approvals ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 61 .
STEVE: To get around approvals until we get approvals . There 's a lot of red tape , ureaucracy , I do n't know how much you know about Florida , Florida politics
BILL: Only what I read and that 's
STEVE: Right , right , this kind of business in particular .
BILL: Charlie ?
CHARLIE: Picking up Little Charles .
STEVE: Little Charles ?
STEVE: You know , it 's essentially security work . The situation in the Middle East is perpetually dangerous , so there 's a tremendous amount of money involved .
BILL: Security work . You mean mercenary ?
BARBARA: Give . Me . The wine .
JEAN: Phantom of the Opera , 1925 .
BARBARA: For God 's sake , you can get it at any Blockbuster .
JEAN: They 're showing it with the scene in color restored . Steve 's appeared in the living room archway .
STEVE: Cool .
BARBARA: Let me make sure I 've got this when you threw a fit about going to the store with your dad Hey , look at me . And you were so distraught over the start time of your Grandpa 's funeral . Was this your concern ? Getting back here in time to watch Phantom of the Fucking Opera ?
JEAN: I guess .
STEVE: Phantom of the Opera , huh ?
JEAN: Huh-uh .
KAREN: Hi , doodle .
STEVE: Hey , baby . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 63 .
KAREN: Hi , doodle !
STEVE: Hook you up , later .
LITTLE CHARLES: I 'm sorry , Dad .
CHARLIE: No need to apologize .
LITTLE CHARLES: I know Mom 's mad at me .
CHARLIE: Do n't worry about her .
LITTLE CHARLES: What did she say ?
CHARLIE: Your mother , she says what she says .
LITTLE CHARLES: I set the alarm . I did .
CHARLIE: I know you did . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 64 .
LITTLE CHARLES: I loved Uncle Bev , you know that .
CHARLIE: Stop apologizing .
LITTLE CHARLES: The power must 've gone out . I woke up and the clock was blinking noon . That means the power went out , right ?
CHARLIE: It 's okay .
LITTLE CHARLES: I missed his funeral !
CHARLIE: It 's a ceremony . It 's ceremonial . It does n't mean anything compared to what you have in your heart . Hold on , comb your hair . Charlie hands Little Charles his comb .
LITTLE CHARLES: Uncle Bev must be disappointed in me .
CHARLIE: Your Uncle Bev has got bigger and etter things ahead of him . He does n't have time for spite . He was n't that kind of man anyway
LITTLE CHARLES: Just I know how things are . I know how they feel about me and something like this you want to be there for people , and I missed Uncle Bev 's funeral , and I know how they feel about me
CHARLIE: How who feels about you ? Feels what about you ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 65 .
LITTLE CHARLES: All of them . I know what they say .
CHARLIE: They do n't say things about you
LITTLE CHARLES: I see how they are . I do n't blame them . I 'm sorry I let you down , Dad .
CHARLIE: You have n't let me down . You neve let me down . Now listenyou 're wrong about these people , they love you . Some of them have n't gotten a chance to see what I see a fine man , very loving , with a lot to offer . Now take this Give me my comb . Stand up straight , look folks in the eye . Stop being so hard on yourself .
LITTLE CHARLES: I love you , Dad .
CHARLIE: Love you too , son .
BARBARA: Phantom of the Opera
BILL: You do n't remember what it was like to e fourteen ?
BARBARA: She 's old enough to exhibit a little character . But that 's something you normally learn from your parents .
BILL: That 's a shot across my bow , right ? I missed something . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 66 .
BARBARA: Really ? Instilling character ou urden as parents .
BILL: I got that part .
BARBARA: And you really have n't been much of a parent lately , so it 's tough to
BILL: Just because you and I are struggling with this Gordian knot does n't mean
BARBARA: Nice , `` Gordian knot , '' but her fourteen- year-old self might view it differently , might consider it `` abandonment ''
BILL: Oh , come on , she 's a little more sophisticated than that , do n't you think ?
BARBARA: Pretty fucking sophisticated , the estored whatever from Phantom of the Opera , I know that makes you dick hard
BILL: Barbara
BARBARA: Precocious little shit .
BILL: I 'm not defending her . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 67 .
BARBARA: Be a father ! Help me !
BILL: I am her father , goddamn it !
BARBARA: Her father in name only !
BILL: I have not forsook my esponsibilities !
BARBARA: It 's `` forsaken , '' big shot !
BILL: Actually , `` forsook '' is also an acceptable usage !
BARBARA: Oh , `` forsook '' you and the horse you rode in on
BILL: You do n't fight fair .
BARBARA: I 've seen where that gets me ! I 'm sick of the whole notion of the enduring female . GROW UP ! Cause while you 're going through your fifth puberty , the world is falling apart and your kid ca n't handle it ! `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 68 .
BILL: Our kid is just trying to deal with this goddamn madhouse you 've dragged her into .
BARBARA: This madhouse is my home .
BILL: Think about that statement for a second , why do n't you ?
BARBARA: Jean is here with me because this is a family event .
BILL: Jean 's here with you because she 's a buffer between you and the shrill insanity of your mother .
BARBARA: Y'know , you 'd have a lot more credibility if you had any credibility .
BILL: You ca n't resist , can you ?
BARBARA: You 're a pretty easy mark .
BILL: You 're so goddamn self-righteous , you know ? You 're so
BARBARA: Surely you must 've known when you started porking Pippi Longstocking you were due for a little self- ighteousness , just a smidge of indignation on my part
BILL: Maybe I split because of it .
BARBARA: Is this your confession , then , when you finally unload all ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 69 .
BILL: You 're thoughtful , Barbara , but you 're not open . You 're passionate , but you 're hard . You 're a good , decent , funny , wonderful woman , and I love you , but you 're a pain in the ass .
VIOLET: August your month . Locusts are aging , `` Summer psalm become summe wrath . '' ` Course it 's only August out there . In here who knows ? All right okay . `` The Carriage held ut just Ourselves , '' dum-de-dummm , est I got Emily Dickenson 's all I got something something , `` Horse 's Heads Were Toward Eternity ''
KAREN: This is lovely ! You do all this ?
BILL: Turn that off , it 's time to eat .
JEAN: Do n't suppose I could eat in here ?
BILL: You suppose right . Ivy comes down the stairs , looking .
IVY: Did I hear Little Charles ?
CHARLIE: He went back out to the car .
LITTLE CHARLES: Mom 's casserole .
IVY: They said you overslept .
LITTLE CHARLES: Maybe I purposely accidentally overslept . I do n't know . I 'm sorry .
IVY: Please . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 71 .
LITTLE CHARLES: I know you had one of the worst days of your life and I 'm sorry if I
IVY: We do n't have to do that with each other .
LITTLE CHARLES: You 're breaking our rule .
IVY: They 're on to me . Not us , just me . I told them I was seeing someone . I did n't tell them who . I just wanted you to know , in case it came up . What ? Charles
LITTLE CHARLES: I adore you .
CHARLIE: Pass the casserole , please ?
MATTIE FAE: My casserole 's coming .
CHARLIE: I 'll eat some of yours , too
BARBARA: Mom ? ! Let 's eat !
MATTIE FAE: There he is . I wanted to put you at a kid 's table but they would n't let me .
LITTLE CHARLES: Where do you want this ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 72 .
MATTIE FAE: You goddamn clumsy goofball !
IVY: It 's just an accident .
MATTIE FAE: That 's my casserole !
CHARLIE: Jean , you did n't get any chicken .
MATTIE FAE: Just put it on his plate for him o he 's liable to burn the house down . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 73 .
CHARLIE: All right , Mattie Fae .
BARBARA: Mom !
VIOLET: Barb will you put this ?
BARBARA: Yeah , sure . Barbara takes it , places it on the sideboard .
VIOLET: I see you gentlemen have stripped down to your shirt fronts . I thought we were having a funeral dinner , not a cockfight .
BARBARA: Uncle Charlie should say it . He 's the patriarch around here now .
CHARLIE: I am ? Oh , I guess I am .
VIOLET: By default .
CHARLIE: Okay . Dear Lord All bow their heads .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 74 .
STEVE: I have to take this .
CHARLIE: We ask that you watch over Beverly , too , as he , as he as he makes his journey . We thank thee , O Lord , that we are able to join together to pay tribute to this fine man , in his house , with his beautiful daughters . We are truly blessed in our , ou fellowship , our togetherness , our our fellowship . Thank thee for the food , O Lord , that we can share this food and replenish our bodies with nutrients . We ask that you help us get better . Be better people .
STEVE: Amen . Sorry folks .
BILL: Let 's eat .
VIOLET: Barb , have any use for that sideboard ?
BARBARA: Hm ?
VIOLET: That sideboard there , you have any interest in that ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 75 .
BARBARA: This ? Well no . I mean , why ?
VIOLET: I 'm getting rid of a lot of this stuff and I thought you might want that sideboard .
BARBARA: No , Mom , I I would n't have any way to get that home to Colorado .
KAREN: Really pretty .
VIOLET: Mm . Maybe Ivy 'll take it .
IVY: I have something like that , remember
VIOLET: Clearing all this out of here . I want to have a brand new everything .
BARBARA: I. I guess I 'm just sort of not prepared to talk about your stuff .
VIOLET: Suit yourself .
STEVE: This food is just spectacular .
IVY: You like your food , Mom ?
VIOLET: I have n't tried much of it , yet
BARBARA: Johnna cooked this whole meal by herself .
VIOLET: ` S what she 's paid for . A silent moment . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 76 .
CHARLIE: Jean , so I 'm curious , when you say you do n't eat meat , you mean you do n't eat meat of any kind ?
JEAN: Right .
CHARLIE: And is that for health reasons , or ?
JEAN: When you eat meat , you ingest an animal 's fear .
VIOLET: Ingest what ? It 's fur ?
JEAN: Fear .
VIOLET: I thought she said
CHARLIE: How do you do that ? You ca n't eat fear .
JEAN: Sure you can . What happens to you , when you feel afraid ? Does n't you ody produce all sorts of chemical eactions ?
CHARLIE: Does it ?
LITTLE CHARLES: Adrenaline , and , and
JEAN: Your body goes through a whole chemical process when it experiences fear . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 77 .
LITTLE CHARLES: yep , and cortisol
JEAN: Do n't you think an animal experiences fear ?
STEVE: You bet it does . I used to work in a cattle processing plant , lot of fear flying around that place .
JEAN: So when you eat an animal , you 're eating all that fear it felt when it was slaughtered to make food .
CHARLIE: Wow . You mean I 've been eating fear , what , three times a day for sixty years ?
MATTIE FAE: This one wo n't have a meal ` less there 's meat in it .
CHARLIE: I guess it 's the way I was raised , ut it just does n't seem like a legitimate meal ` less it has some meat somewhere
MATTIE FAE: If I make a pasta dish of some kind , he 'll be like , `` Okay , that 's good fo an appetizer , now where 's the meat ? ''
VIOLET: `` Where 's the meat ? '' Is n't that some TV commercial , the old lady says , `` Where 's the meat ? ''
KAREN: `` Beef , '' `` Where 's the beef ? ''
VIOLET: `` Where 's the meat ? ! '' `` Where 's the meat ? ! '' `` Where 's the meat ? ! ''
BARBARA: That 's pleasant . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 78 .
CHARLIE: I thought the services were lovely .
VIOLET: Ehhhhh ! I give it a Ehhhhh !
BARBARA: Yeah , I ca n't imagine why no one told that story .
STEVE: I do n't know much about poetry , but I thought his poems were extraordinary . And your reading was very fine .
BILL: Thank you .
VIOLET: Who are you ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 79 .
KAREN: Mom , this is my fiance , Steve , I introduced you at the church .
STEVE: Steve Heidebrecht .
VIOLET: Hide-the-what ?
STEVE: Heidebrecht .
VIOLET: Hide-a-burrrGerman , you 're a German .
STEVE: Well , German-Irish , really , I
VIOLET: That 's peculiar , Karen , to bring a date to your father 's funeral . I know the poetry was good , but I would n't have really considered it date material
BARBARA: Jesus .
KAREN: He 's not a date , he 's my fiance . We 're getting married on New Years . In Miami , I hope you can make it .
VIOLET: I do n't really see that happening , do you ? Steve . That right ? Steve ?
STEVE: Yes , ma'am .
VIOLET: You ever been married before ?
KAREN: That 's personal .
STEVE: I do n't mind . Yes , ma'am , I have .
VIOLET: More ' n once ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 80 .
STEVE: Three times , actually , three times efore this
VIOLET: You should pretty much have it down y now , then .
STEVE: Right , right
VIOLET: I had that one pegged . I mean , look at him , you can tell he 's een married .
KAREN: I took Steve out to show him the old fort and it 's gone !
BILL: What is this now ?
KAREN: Our old fort , where we used to play Cowboys and Indians .
IVY: Daddy said rats were getting in there .
VIOLET: Karen ! Shame on you ! Do n't you know not to say Cowboys and Indians ? You played Cowboys and Native Americans , ight Barb ?
BARBARA: What did you take ? What pills ?
VIOLET: Lem me alone
CHARLIE: Uh-oh ! `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 81 .
MATTIE FAE: What is it ?
CHARLIE: UH-OH !
MATTIE FAE: What 's the matter ?
CHARLIE: I got a big bite of fear ! I 'm shakin ' in my boots ! Fear neve tasted so good .
STEVE: Right , right , it 's pretty good once you get used to the taste .
BARBARA: I catch her eating a cheeseburge every now and again .
JEAN: I do not !
BARBARA: Double cheeseburger , bacon , extra fear .
JEAN: Mom , you are such a liar ! More laughter . Violet stares at Jean .
VIOLET: Y'knowif I ever called my mom a liar ? She would 've knocked my goddamn head off my shoulders . Silence .
BARBARA: Mom `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 82 .
VIOLET: We took care of it some time back .
BARBARA: Mom , we do n't want to talk about this .
VIOLET: I want to talk about it . What about what I want to talk about , that count for anything ? Bev made some good investments , elieve it or not , and we had money for you girls in his will , but we talked it over after some years passed and decided to change things , leave everything to me . We never got around to taking care of it legally , ut you should know he meant to leave the money to me .
BARBARA: Okay .
VIOLET: Okay ? Okay ?
IVY: Okay .
VIOLET: Karen ? Okay ?
BARBARA: Okay .
KAREN: Okay .
VIOLET: Okay . But now some of this furniture , some of this old shit you can just have . I do n't want it , got no use fo it . Maybe I should have an auction .
MATTIE FAE: Sure , an auction 's a fine idea `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 83 .
VIOLET: Some things , though , like the silver , that 's worth a pretty penny . But if you like I 'll sell it to you , cheaper ' n I might get in an auction .
BARBARA: Or you might never get around to the auction and then we can just have it for free after you die .
IVY: Barbara Beat . Violet coolly studies Barbara .
VIOLET: You might at that .
LITTLE CHARLES: Excuse me , Bill ? I 'm wondering , the reading you did , those poems ?
VIOLET: Where are you living now , Bill ? You want this old sideboard ?
BILL: I beg your pardon .
VIOLET: You and Barbara are separated , ight ? Or you divorced already ?
BILL: We 're separated .
VIOLET: Thought you could slip that one y me , did n't you ?
BARBARA: What is the matter with you ?
VIOLET: Nobody slips anything by me . I know what 's what . Your father thought he 's slipping one by me , right ? No way . I 'm sorry you two 're having trouble , maybe you can work it out . Bev ' n I separated a few times , course we did n't call it that . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 84 .
BARBARA: Help us to benefit from an illustration of your storybook marriage .
VIOLET: Truth is , you ca n't compete with a younger woman . One of those unfai things in life . Is there a younge woman involved ?
BARBARA: You 've said enough on this topic , I think .
BILL: Yes . There 's a younger woman .
VIOLET: Y'see ? Odds 're against you there , abe .
IVY: Mom believes women do n't grow more attractive with age .
KAREN: Oh , I disagree , I
VIOLET: I did n't say they `` do n't grow more attractive , '' I said they get ugly . And it 's not really a matter of opinion , Karen dear . You 've only just started to prove it yourself .
CHARLIE: You 're in rare form today , Vi .
VIOLET: The day calls for it , does n't it ? What form would you have me in ?
CHARLIE: I just do n't understand why you 're so adversarial .
VIOLET: I 'm just truth-telling . Some people get antagonized by the truth . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 85 .
CHARLIE: Everyone here loves you , dear .
VIOLET: You think you can shame me , Charlie ? Blow it out your ass .
BARBARA: Three days ago I had to identify my father 's corpse . Now I 'm supposed to sit here and listen to you viciously attack each and every membe of this family Violet rises , her voice booming .
VIOLET: Attack my family ? ! You ever been attacked in your sweet spoiled life ? ! Tell her ` bout attacks , Mattie Fae , tell her what an attack looks like !
MATTIE FAE: Honey
VIOLET: This woman came to my rescue when one of my dear mother 's many gentlemen friends was attacking me , with a claw hammer ! You think you been attacked ? ! What do you know about life on these Plains ? What do you know about hard times ?
BARBARA: I know you had a rotten childhood , Mom . Who did n't ?
VIOLET: You DO N'T know ! You do NOT know ! None of you know , ` cept this woman right here and that man we buried today !
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 86 .
BARBARA: No .
IVY: No .
VIOLET: In a Pontiac Sedan . With his mother , his father , in a fucking car ! Now what do you want to say about you otten childhood ? That 's the crux of the biscuit we lived too hard , then ose too high . We sacrificed everything and we did it all for you . Your father and I were the first in our families to finish high school and he wound up an award-winning poet . You girls , given a college education , taken for granted no doubt , and where 'd you wind up ? Whadda you do ? Whadda you do ? Who 're you ? Jesus , you worked as hard as us , you 'd all be President . You never had real problems so you got to make all your problems yourselves .
BARBARA: Why are you screaming at us ?
VIOLET: Just time we had some truth 's told ` round here . Damn fine day , tell the truth . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 87 .
CHARLIE: Well , the truth is I 'm getting full .
STEVE: Amen .
JOHNNA: There 's dessert , too .
KAREN: I saw her making those pies . They looked so good . Little Charles suddenly stands .
LITTLE CHARLES: I have a truth to tell .
VIOLET: It speaks .
IVY: No , no
CHARLIE: What is it , son ?
LITTLE CHARLES: I have a truth .
MATTIE FAE: Little Charles ?
IVY: Charles , not like this , please
LITTLE CHARLES: The truth isI forgot to set the clock . The power did n't go out , I justforgot to set the clock . Sorry , Mom . I 'm sorry , everyone . Excuse meII .
VIOLET: Scintillating .
MATTIE FAE: I gave up a long time ago Little Charles is your project .
IVY: Charles . His name is Charles .
VIOLET: Poor Ivy . Poor thing .
IVY: Please , Mom
VIOLET: Poor baby .
IVY: Please
VIOLET: She always had a feeling for the underdog .
IVY: Do n't be mean to me right now , okay ?
VIOLET: Everyone 's got this idea I 'm mean all of a sudden .
IVY: Please , momma .
VIOLET: I told you , I 'm just telling the
BARBARA: You 're a drug addict .
VIOLET: That is the truth ! That 's what I 'm getting at ! I , everybody listen I am a drug addict . I am addicted to drugs , pills , specially downers .
BARBARA: Gim me those goddamn pills
VIOLET: I 'll eat you alive , girl !
BARBARA: Shut up ! Okay . Pill raid . Johnna , help Ivy in the kitchen ; Bill and Jean upstairs with me . You remember how to do this , right ?
IVY: Yeah `` August '' 10/23/12 BLUE Draft 90 .
BARBARA: Go through everything . Every closet , every drawer , every shoebox .
CHARLIE: What should we do ?
BARBARA: Get Mom some black coffee , a wet towel and listen to her bullshit . Karen , call Dr. Burke .
VIOLET: You ca n't do this ! This is my house ! This is my house !
BARBARA: You do n't get it , do you ? She strides to her mother , looms over her .
BARBARA: You knew this was going on again ?
KAREN: Now what ?
IVY: Wo n't do any good , he 's part of the same generation .
IVY: Big speech , she 's getting clean , making this incredible sacrifice fo
KAREN: I was n't there .
BARBARA: She smuggled Darvocet into the psych ward in her vagina . There 's you Greatest Generation for you . She made this speech to us while she was clenching a bottle of pills in he cooch , for God 's sake .
KAREN: God , I 've never heard this story . `` August '' 11/11/12 Yellow Pages 93 .
IVY: Did you just say `` cooch '' ?
BARBARA: The phrase `` Mom 's pussy '' seems gauche .
IVY: You 're a little more comfortable with `` cooch , '' are you ?
BARBARA: What word should I use to describe our mother 's vagina ?
IVY: I do n't know , but
BARBARA: `` Mom 's beaver '' ? `` Mother 's box '' ?
KAREN: One thing about Mom and Dad . You have to tip your cap to anyone who can stay married that long .
IVY: Karen . He killed himself .
BARBARA: Is there something going on between you and Little Charles ?
IVY: I do n't know that I 'm comfortable talking about that . `` August '' 11/09/12 Pink Draft 93A .
BARBARA: Because you know he 's our first cousin .
IVY: Give me a break .
KAREN: You know you should n't conside children .
IVY: I ca n't anyway , I had a hysterectomy last year . What ? Barbara and Karen stare at Ivy . `` August '' 10/23/12 BLUE Draft 94 .
KAREN: Why ?
IVY: Cervical cancer .
KAREN: I did n't know .
BARBARA: Neither did I .
IVY: I did n't tell anyone except Charles . That 's where it started between us .
BARBARA: Why not ?
IVY: And hear it from Mom the rest of my life ? She does n't need another excuse to treat me like some damaged thing .
BARBARA: You might have told us .
IVY: You did n't tell us about you and Bill .
BARBARA: That 's different .
IVY: Why ? Because it 's you , and not me ?
BARBARA: Because divorce is an embarrassing public admission of defeat . Cancer 's fucking cancer , you ca n't help that . We 're your sisters .
IVY: I ca n't perpetuate these myths of family or sisterhood anymore . We 're just people , some of us accidentally connected by genetics , a random
BARBARA: When did you get so cynical ?
IVY: That 's funny , coming from you .
BARBARA: Bitter , sure , but `` random selection of cells ? ''
IVY: Maybe my cynicism came with the
BARBARA: Do n't give me that . I participated
IVY: Till you had enough and got out , you and Karen both . I 'm not criticizing . Do what you want . You did , Karen did .
BARBARA: And if you did n't , that 's not my fault .
IVY: That 's right , so do n't lay this siste
BARBARA: You 're thinking of leaving ?
IVY: Charles and I are going to New York .
BARBARA: What are you going to do in New York ?
IVY: We have plans .
BARBARA: Like what ?
IVY: None of your business .
BARBARA: What about Mom ?
IVY: What about her ?
BARBARA: You feel comfortable leaving Mom here ?
IVY: Do you ? You think she was tough when he was alive ? Think what it 's going to be
KAREN: Yes . Ivy stands , gathers up her wine glass . `` August '' 10/23/12 BLUE Draft 98 .
VIOLET: No , honey , I 'm fine . This house must have heard a lot of Weston girl secrets .
KAREN: I get embarrassed just thinking about it .
VIOLET: Oh nothing to be embarrassed about . Secret crushes , secret schemes . Province of teenage girls . I ca n't imagine anything more delicate , or bittersweet . Some part of you girls I always identified with no matter how old you get , a woman 's hard-pressed to throw off that part of herself . That smells good .
KAREN: It 's apple . You want some ?
VIOLET: Yes , please .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 100 .
BARBARA: Please do n't tell me that 's the end of the story .
VIOLET: Oh , no . That 's the end .
KAREN: You never got the boots ? `` August '' 11/09/12 Pink Draft 101 .
VIOLET: No , huh-uh .
BARBARA: Okay , well , that 's the worst story I ever heard . That makes me wish for a heartwarming claw hammer story .
VIOLET: My momma was a nasty-mean old lady . I suppose that 's where I get it from . An awkward moment .
KAREN: You 're not nasty-mean . You 're ou mother and we love you .
VIOLET: Thank you , sweetheart .
BARBARA: Last time I spoke with my father , we talked about the state of the world , and he said , `` You know , this country was always pretty much a whorehouse , ut at least it used to have some promise . Now it 's just a shithole . '' I think maybe he was talking about something else , something more specific , personal this house ? This family ? His marriage ? Himself ? There was something sad in his voice not sad , he always sounded sad hopeless . As if it had already happened . As if whatever was disappearing had already disappeared . And no one saw it go . This country , this experiment , America , this hubris what a lament , if no one saw it go .
JOHNNA: Mrs. Fordham , are you going to fire me ?
BARBARA: What ? No . But I 'll understand if you want to quit . I mean , there 's work . And then there 's work .
JOHNNA: I 'm familiar with this job . I can do this job . I do n't do it for you or Mrs. Weston . Or even for Mr. Weston . Right ? I do it for me .
BARBARA: Why ?
JOHNNA: I need the work .
BARBARA: Johnna , did my father say anything to you ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 103 .
BARBARA: Thank you . That makes me feel better . Knowing that you can lie . Johnna smiles .
DR. BURKE: The chemotherapy and the radiation , coupled with the overuse of pain medications
BARBARA: right
DR. BURKE: and without the benefit of more thorough testing , an MRI or CT scan , I elieve your mother is showing signs of Mild Cognitive Impairment .
BARBARA: Mild Cognitive Impairment ?
DR. BURKE: Brain damage . It may be time to consider placing her in a long term care facility . I 'd certainly feel more comfortable knowing she was eceiving that level of supervision .
BARBARA: That would make you comfortable ? You would be comfortable with that ?
DR. BURKE: Of course , it 's a family decision . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 104 .
BARBARA: You want us to send her to where , a psychiatric hospital ?
DR. BURKE: Well , Beverly 's gone .
BARBARA: Right . Not `` gone '' so much as `` dead , '' ut I see your point .
DR. BURKE: Legal guardianship for you and you sisters , with my recommendation , should be a simple
IVY: Leave me out of this , thanks .
BARBARA: So you 're thinking that if the three of us cooperated with you on a commitment end-around , we 'd be less likely to sue your ass ?
DR. BURKE: I 'm sorry ?
BARBARA: `` Mild Cognitive Impairment ? '' Are you fucking kidding me ? You really want to go before a judge and make a case for a couple radiation treatments and some chemo causing brain damage ? Think you can make that stand up in court ? When I 'm sitting at the othe table , doing this ?
DR. BURKE: All right , I think Throws another pill bottle at him .
BARBARA: Know whose name is on these bottles ? She hits him with another pill bottle . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 105 .
DR. BURKE: Your mother is a very She hits him with another pill bottle .
IVY: Barb
BARBARA: We 'll hang on to the bucket of these we have at home . For evidence . Fo your trial .
VIOLET: Pull the car over .
BARBARA: We 'll be home in a few minutes .
VIOLET: Pull the car over . I 'm going to be sick .
BARBARA: Mom ? Violet keeps running .
VIOLET: Please , honey
BARBARA: No , it 's important I say this . I lost
VIOLET: Barbara . The day , the funeral the pills . I was spoiling for a fight and you gave it to me .
BARBARA: So truce ?
VIOLET: Truce .
BARBARA: What now ?
VIOLET: How do you mean ?
BARBARA: Do n't you think you should at least consider a rehab center ?
VIOLET: I ca n't go through that again . No , I can do this . You got rid of my pills , ight ?
BARBARA: All we could find .
VIOLET: I do n't have that many hiding places .
BARBARA: Mom , now , come on .
VIOLET: You wan na search me ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 108 .
BARBARA: Uh no .
VIOLET: If the pills are gone , I 'll be fine . Just need a few days to get my feet under me .
BARBARA: I ca n't imagine what all this must e like for you right now . I just want you to know , you 're not alone . If you need any help
VIOLET: I do n't need help .
BARBARA: I want to help .
VIOLET: I do n't need your help .
BARBARA: Mom .
VIOLET: I do n't need your help . I 've gotten myself through some I know how this goes once all the talking 's through , people go back to their own nonsense . I know that . So , do n't worry about me . I 'll manage . I get by .
IVY: Is the coast clear ?
LITTLE CHARLES: Never very .
IVY: What are you watching ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 109 .
LITTLE CHARLES: Television .
IVY: Can I watch it with you ?
LITTLE CHARLES: I wish you would . She sits beside him on the couch .
IVY: Nope . They hold hands .
LITTLE CHARLES: I was trying to be brave .
IVY: I know .
LITTLE CHARLES: I just I want everyone to know that I got what I always wanted . And that means I 'm not a loser .
IVY: Hey . Hey . He turns to look at her .
LITTLE CHARLES: Come on , help me push the pedal . She joins him on the piano bench .
MATTIE FAE: Liberace . Get yourself together , we have to get home and take care of those damn dogs . They 've probably eaten the drapes by now .
CHARLIE: I 'm sure the house is fine .
MATTIE FAE: Oh , look , honey , Little Charles has got the TV on .
LITTLE CHARLES: No , I was just
MATTIE FAE: This one watches so much television , it 's rotted his brain .
IVY: I 'm sure that 's not true .
MATTIE FAE: What was it I caught you watching the other day ?
LITTLE CHARLES: I do n't remember .
CHARLIE: Mattie Fae
LITTLE CHARLES: I do n't remember .
MATTIE FAE: You do n't remember . Too bad there is n't a job where they pay you to sit around watching TV . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 111 .
CHARLIE: C'mon , Mattie Fae
MATTIE FAE: Y'know he got fired from a shoe store ?
CHARLIE: Mattie Fae , we 're gon na get in the car and go home and if you say one more mean thing to that boy I 'm going to kick your fat Irish ass onto the highway . You hear me ?
MATTIE FAE: What the hell did you say ?
CHARLIE: You kids go outside , would you please ? Ivy and Little Charles go .
MATTIE FAE: Maybe that 's because your family
CHARLIE: You had better not say anything about my family right now . I mean it . We uried a man yesterday I loved very much . And whatever faults he may have had , he was a good , kind , decent person . And to hear you tear into your own son not even a day late dishonors Beverly 's memory . We 've een married thirty-eight years . I would n't trade them for anything . But if you ca n't find a generous place in your heart for your own son , we 're not going to make it to thirty-nine .
BARBARA: I did n't mean to eavesdrop . I froze .
MATTIE FAE: That 's you have a cigarette , hon ?
BARBARA: No , I quit years ago .
MATTIE FAE: So did I . Just sounded good to me . I thought at dinner at that horrible dinner last night , seemed like , something might be going on etween Ivy and Little Charles . Do you know if that 's true ?
BARBARA: Oh , this isI 'm not sure what to
MATTIE FAE: Look , just . Is it true ?
BARBARA: Yes . It 's true .
MATTIE FAE: Okay . That ca n't happen .
BARBARA: This is going to be difficult , uh Ivy and Little Charles have always marched to their own and I 'd expect this to be toughest on you
MATTIE FAE: Barb ?
BARBARA: They 're in love . Or they think they are . What 's the difference , right ?
MATTIE FAE: Honey
BARBARA: I know it 's unorthodox for cousins to get together , at least these days
MATTIE FAE: They 're not cousins . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 113 .
BARBARA: but believe it or not , it 's not as uncommon as you might
MATTIE FAE: Listen to me . They 're not cousins .
BARBARA: Beg pardon ?
MATTIE FAE: Little Charles is not your cousin . He 's your brother . He 's your blood other . He is not your cousin . He is your blood brother . Half-brother . He 's your father 's child . Which means that he is Ivy 's brother . Do you see ? Little Charles and Ivy are other and sister . Karen and Steve enter from outside .
BARBARA: Go away .
KAREN: We 're just going to
BARBARA: Go away ! NOW ! GO AWAY !
MATTIE FAE: I do . And you do .
BARBARA: Uncle Charlie does n't suspect ?
MATTIE FAE: We 've never discussed it .
BARBARA: What ? !
MATTIE FAE: We 've never discussed it . Okay ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 114 .
BARBARA: Did Dad know ?
MATTIE FAE: Yes . Y'know , I 'm not proud of this .
BARBARA: Really . You people amaze me . What , were you drunk ? Was this just some
MATTIE FAE: I was n't drunk , no . Maybe it 's hard for you to believe , looking at me , knowing me the way you do , all these years . I know to you , I 'm just you old fat Aunt Mattie Fae . I 'm more than that , sweetheart , there 's more to me than that . I do n't know why Little Charles is such a disappointment to me . Maybe he , well , I do n't know why . I 'm disappointed for him , more than anything . I made a mistake , a long time ago . Okay ? I paid for it . But the mistake ends here .
BARBARA: If Ivy found out , it would destroy her .
MATTIE FAE: I 'm sure as hell not gon na tell her . You have to find a way to stop it . You have to put a stop to it .
JEAN: Who cares ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 115 .
STEVE: Number one by far . Want a shotgun ? You do n't know what a shotgun is ?
JEAN: I know what a shotgun is .
STEVE: Not that kind of shotgun , here . Just put your lips right next to mine and you inhale while I exhale .
JEAN: Okay .
STEVE: Hold it . Do n't let it out . She finally gasps , exhales , coughs .
KAREN: What happened ? !
JOHNNA: He was messing with Jean
KAREN: Honey , you 're bleeding , you okay ?
BARBARA: Jean , what are you doing up ?
JEAN: We were , I do n't know
BARBARA: Johnna , what 's going on ?
JOHNNA: He was messing with Jean , so I tuned him up .
BARBARA: I 'll murder you , you prick !
STEVE: I did n't do anything !
BARBARA: You know how old that girl is ?
STEVE: Tell them I did n't do anything !
BARBARA: She 's fourteen years old !
JEAN: What is the matter with you ? Will you please stop freaking out ?
BILL: Why do n't you start at the beginning ?
BARBARA: What are you even doing up ?
BILL: Please , sweetheart , we need to know what went on here .
JEAN: Nothing `` went on . '' Can we just not make a federal case out of every thing ? I came down for a drink , he came in end of story . All right ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 119 .
BARBARA: Just tell me what he did !
BILL: The big deal , Jean , is that you 're fourteen years old .
JEAN: Which is only a few years younge than you like ` em . Barbara SLAPS Jean ; Jean bursts into tears .
BARBARA: Yeah , I hate you too , you little freak !
BILL: What 's the matter with you ? `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 120 .
KAREN: I can do without a speech .
BARBARA: Where is he ?
KAREN: Out at the car . We 're leaving . Back to Florida , tonight , now . Me and Steve , together . Want to give me some grief about that ?
BARBARA: Now wait just a goddamn
KAREN: You better find out from Jean exactly what went on before you start pointing fingers . Cause I doubt Jean 's blameless in all this . And I 'm not blaming her , just cause I said she 's not blameless does n't mean I 've blamed her . I 'm saying she might share in the responsibility . It 's not cut and dried , black and white , good and bad . It lives where everything lives somewhere in the middle . Where the rest of us live , everyone but you .
BARBARA: Karen
KAREN: He 's not perfect . Just like the rest of us , down here in the muck . I 'm no angel myself . I 've done some things I 'm not proud of . Things you 'll neve know about . I may even have to do some things I 'm not proud of again . Cause sometimes life puts you in a corner that way .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 121 .
BARBARA: Right
KAREN: Come January I 'll be in Belize . Does n't that sound nice ?
BILL: I 'm taking Jean with me , heading back to Colorado in the morning .
BARBARA: Okay .
BILL: I 'm sure you 'll find a way to blame me for all this .
BARBARA: Yeah , well I ca n't make it up to Jean right now . She 's just going to have to wait until I get back to Boulder .
BILL: You and Jean have about forty years left to fight and make up . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 122 .
BARBARA: Why , what happens in forty years ?
BILL: You die .
BARBARA: Oh , right .
BILL: I mean
BARBARA: No . Right . I fail . As a mother , as a daughter , as a wife . I fail .
BILL: No , you do n't .
BARBARA: I 've physically attacked Mom and Jean in the span of twenty-four hours . You stick around here and I 'll cut off your penis .
BILL: That 's not funny . He starts back inside .
BARBARA: You 're never coming back to me , are you , Bill ?
BILL: Never say never , but
BARBARA: But no .
BILL: But no .
BARBARA: Even if things do n't work out with you and Marsha .
BILL: Cindy .
BARBARA: Cindy . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 123 .
BILL: Right . Even if things do n't work out .
BARBARA: And I 'm never really going to understand why , am I ?
BILL: Probably not .
IVY: Where are Bill and Jean going ? Barbara does n't answer , just stands there .
BARBARA: Yeah
IVY: Is she clean ?
BARBARA: She 's moderately clean . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 124 .
IVY: Moderately ?
BARBARA: You do n't like moderately ? Then let 's say tolerably .
IVY: Is she clean , or not ?
BARBARA: Back off .
IVY: I 'm nervous .
BARBARA: Oh Christ , Ivy , not today .
IVY: I have to tell her , do n't I ? We 're leaving for New York tomorrow .
BARBARA: That 's not a good idea . For you and Charles to take this any further .
IVY: Where is this coming from ? Barbara heads up the porch steps and into
BARBARA: Lot of fish in the sea . Surely you can rule out the one single man in the world you 're related to .
IVY: I love the man I 'm related to
BARBARA: Fuck love , what a crock of shit . People can convince themselves they love a painted rock . They find Johnna cooking in the kitchen .
JOHNNA: Catfish .
BARBARA: Bottom feeders , my favorite . You 're nearly fifty years old , Ivy , you ca n't go to New York , you 'll break a hip . Eat your catfish .
IVY: I have lived in this town , year in and year out , hoping against hope someone would come into my life
BARBARA: Do n't get all Carson McCullers on me . Now wipe that tragic look off your face and eat some catfish .
VIOLET: What 's howdy about it ?
BARBARA: Look , catfish for lunch . Johnna ! You hungry ?
VIOLET: Ivy , you should smile . Like me . Johnna enters from the kitchen .
BARBARA: Mom needs her lunch , please .
VIOLET: I 'm not hungry .
BARBARA: You have n't eaten anything today . You did n't eat anything yesterday .
VIOLET: I 'm not hungry .
BARBARA: Eat .
VIOLET: No .
BARBARA: Eat it . Mom ? Eat it .
VIOLET: No .
BARBARA: Eat it , you fucker . Eat that catfish .
VIOLET: Go to hell .
BARBARA: That does n't cut any fucking ice with me . Now eat that fucking fish .
IVY: Mom , I have something to talk to you
BARBARA: No you do n't .
IVY: Barbara
BARBARA: No you do n't . Shut up . Shut the fuck up .
IVY: Please
VIOLET: What 's to talk about ?
IVY: Mom `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 127 .
BARBARA: Forget it . Eat that fucking fish .
VIOLET: I 'm not hungry .
BARBARA: Eat it .
VIOLET: NO !
IVY: Mom , I need to !
VIOLET: NO !
IVY: MOM !
BARBARA: EAT THE FISH , BITCH !
IVY: MOM , PLEASE !
VIOLET: Barbara !
BARBARA: Okay , fuck it , do what you want .
IVY: I have to tell you something .
BARBARA: Ivy 's a lesbian .
IVY: Barbara
VIOLET: No , you 're not .
IVY: No , I 'm not
BARBARA: Yes , you are . Did you eat your fish ?
IVY: Barbara , stop it ! `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 128 .
BARBARA: Eat your fish .
IVY: Barbara !
BARBARA: Eat your fish .
VIOLET: Barbara , quiet now
IVY: Mom , please , this is important
BARBARA: Eatyourfisheatyourfisheatyourfish
IVY: I have something to say .
BARBARA: Are we breaking shit ?
IVY: Charles and I
BARBARA: You do n't want to break shit with me , muthah-fuckah
IVY: Charles and I
BARBARA: Johnna ? ! Little spill in here ! Ivy gets in Barbara 's face . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 129 .
IVY: Barbara , stop it ! Mom , Charles and I
BARBARA: Little Charles
IVY: Charles and I
BARBARA: Little Charles
IVY: Barbara
BARBARA: You have to say Little Charles or she wo n't know who you 're talking about .
IVY: Little Charles and I
VIOLET: Little Charles and you are brothe and sister . I know that . Freeze . Silence .
BARBARA: Oh Mom .
IVY: What ? No , listen , Little Charles
VIOLET: I 've always known that . I told you , no one slips anything by me .
IVY: Mom
BARBARA: Do n't listen . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 130 .
VIOLET: I knew the whole time Bev and Mattie Fae were carrying on . Charlie should have known too , if he was n't smoking all that grass .
BARBARA: It 's the pills talking .
VIOLET: Your father tore himself up over it , thirty some-odd years , but Beverly would n't have been Beverly if he did n't have plenty to brood about .
IVY: Mom , what are you ?
BARBARA: Oh honey
VIOLET: Better you girls know now though , now you 're older . Never know when someone might need a kidney .
IVY: Why in God 's name did you tell me this ?
VIOLET: Hey , what do you care ?
IVY: You 're monsters .
VIOLET: Come on now
IVY: Monsters
VIOLET: Who 's the injured party here ?
BARBARA: Ivy , listen
IVY: Leave me alone .
BARBARA: When Mattie Fae told me , I did n't know what to do Ivy runs from the house .
IVY: We 'll go anyway , we 'll still go away .
BARBARA: This is not my fault . Barbara pounds on the car window .
IVY: There 's no difference .
VIOLET: We could n't let Ivy run off with Little Charles . Just would n't be ight . Barbara does n't respond , keeps her distance .
BARBARA: You knew about Daddy and Mattie Fae ?
VIOLET: Oh sure . I never told them I knew . But your father knew . He knew I knew . But we never talked about it . I chose the higher ground . If I 'd had the chance , there at the end , I would 've told him , `` I hope this is n't about Little Charles , cause you know I know all about that . '' If I 'd eached him at that motel , I would 've said , `` You 'd be better off if you quit sulking about this ancient history . ''
BARBARA: what motel ?
VIOLET: I called over there on Monday after I got into that safety deposit box . But it was too late , he 'd checked out .
BARBARA: How did you know where he was ?
VIOLET: The note . He said I could call him over at the Country Squire Motel
BARBARA: He left a note ?
VIOLET: And I did , I called him on Monday . `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 133 .
BARBARA: Did the note say he was going to kill himself ? No response .
VIOLET: If I had my wits about me , I might 've done it different . But I was , you father and me both , we were Barbara looks off , quietly
VIOLET: You 'd better understand this , you smug little ingrate . There 's only one reason Beverly killed himself and that 's you . Think there 's any way he would 've done what he did if you were still here ? No , just him and me , here in this house , in the dark , left to ourselves , abandoned , wasted lifetimes devoted to your care and comfort .
MORE: `` August '' 9/21/12 FINAL WHITE Draft 134 .
BARBARA: You 're right , Mom . You 're the strong one .
VIOLET: Barbara ?
BARBARA: No
VIOLET: Barbara , please .
BARBARA: I 'm nothing like you
VIOLET: Please , Barbara .
DR. EVIL: Gentlemen , are we all here ? Good . As you know , my plot to high-jack nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage has failed . Again . This organization will not tolerate failure .
AUSTIN: Alright , luv ! Love it ! Turnpout for me baby . Smashing !
SUPERMODEL 1: Austin , you 've really outdone yourself this time .
AUSTIN: Thanks , baby .
SUPERMODEL 2: We could have another photo session ack at my flat .
AUSTIN: Oh , behave !
SUPERMODEL 3: Austin , I love you !
AUSTIN: So many women , so little time .
MRS. KENSINGTON: Hello , Austin Just then , a FLASHING RED LIGHT goes off and we hear a distinctive PHONE RING .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Hello , Austin . This is Basil Exposition , Chief of British Intelligence .
AUSTIN: We know all that , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: I just wanted to be extremely clea so that everyone knows what 's going on at any given time . We 've just eceived word that Dr . Evil , the ultimate square , is planning to take over the world .
AUSTIN: Dr . Evil ? I thought I put him in jail for good .
BASIL EXPOSITION: I 'm afraid not . Earlier this week , Dr . Evil escaped from Zedel Edel Prison in Baaden Baaden and now he 's planning a trap for you tonight at the Electric Psychedelic Pussycat Swinger 's Club in Picadilly Circus here in swinging London .
AUSTIN: Just where you 'd never think to look for him . We 'll be there .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Good luck , Austin .
AUSTIN: Thank you .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Oh , and Austin & emdash ;
AUSTIN: Yes ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful .
AUSTIN: Thank you . Let 's go , baby !
MICK JAGGER: Hey Austin Powers , it 's me , Mick Jagger .
AUSTIN: Hey , Mick !
MICK JAGGER: Are you more satisfied now sexually , Austin ?
AUSTIN: Well , you ca n't always get what you want .
MICK JAGGER: `` You ca n't always get what you want ! '' That 's a great title for a song ! I 'm gon na write that , and it 'll be a big hit .
AUSTIN: Good on ya , man .
MICK JAGGER: Groovy !
ANDY WARHOL: Austin Powers ? Hi , I 'm Andy Warhol .
AUSTIN: Hey , how are you ?
ANDY WARHOL: Hungry .
AUSTIN: Here , have this can of Campbell 's Tomato Soup . Austin hands Andy a can of soup .
ANDY WARHOL: I 'm going to paint this can of soup and become famous and not give you any credit for it .
AUSTIN: If you can become famous , everyone will have their fifteen minutes of fame , man .
ANDY WARHOL: `` Fifteen minutes of fame ? '' I 'm going to use that quote and not give you any credit for that , either .
AUSTIN: Smashing !
QUEEN: Austin Powers , Britain owes you a debt of gratitude .
AUSTIN: In the but-tocks .
QUEEN: That must be a sight . I 'd kind of like to see that .
MRS. KENSINGTON: We 've got to find Dr . Evil !
AUSTIN: Wait , I 've got an idea .
EVERYONE: Ohhh !
MRS. KENSINGTON: Austin , why in God 's name did you strike that woman ?
AUSTIN: That ai n't no woman ! It 's a man , man . It 's one of Dr . Evil 's assassins .
DR. EVIL: Not this time . Come , Mr. Bigglesworth ! See you in the future , Mr . Powers !
MRS. KENSINGTON: My God ! He 's freezing himself .
RADAR OPERATOR: Commander Gilmour ?
COMMANDER GILMOUR: Is it one of ours ?
RADAR OPERATOR: No . Log Com Bird Twelve says its metalurg recon analysis is a standard alloy , not stealthy , not carbon- composite . It does have an odd shape , sir .
COMMANDER GILMOUR: What are you saying , son ?
RADAR OPERATOR: It appears to be in the shape of Bob 's Big Boy , sir .
COMMANDER GILMOUR: Oh my God , he 's back .
RADAR OPERATOR: In many ways , Bob 's Big Boy neve left , sir . He 's always offered the same high quality meals at competitive prices .
COMMANDER GILMOUR: Shut up .
RADAR OPERATOR: Should we scramble TacHQ for an intercept ?
COMMANDER GILMOUR: What 's its current position ?
RADAR SCREEN: It was over Nevada , butoh my God ! It 's gone !
COMMANDER GILMOUR: Listen son , I want you to forget what you saw here tonight .
RADAR OPERATOR: Commander , I have to log it & emdash ;
COMMANDER GILMOUR: That 's a direct order . You did n't see a thing ! He hangs up and picks up another phone .
BASIL EXPOSITION: As you know , gentlemen , Dr . Evil had himself frozen in 1967 . Soon after , Austin Powers volunteered to have himself frozen , in the event Dr . Evil should ever return . We believe Dr . Evil has begun yet another plot to take over the world . And that , gentlemen , is why we 're here .
COMMAND GILMOUR: Outstanding re-cap , Exposition .
BORSCHEVSKY: Who is this Austin Powers ? Is he a British operative ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: No , he worked freelance , an internationally renowned swinging photographer by day and the ultimate gentlemen spy by night .
FEMALE ANNOUNCER: Attention , Stage One , laser cutting eginning .
AUSTIN: Where am I ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: You 're in the Ministry of Defense . It 's 1997 . You 've been cryogenically frozen for thirty years .
BASIL EXPOSITION: The shouting is a temporary side- effect of the unfreezing process .
AUSTIN: Yes , I 'm having trouble controlling & emdash ;
BASIL EXPOSITION: You might also experience a slight fever , dry mouth , and flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation . Austin , this is Commander Gilmour , Strategic Command , and General Borschevsky , Russian Intelligence .
AUSTIN: Russian Intelligence ? Are you mad ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: A lot 's happened since you were frozen , Austin . The cold war 's over .
AUSTIN: Thank God . Those capitalist dogs will finally pay for their crimes against the people , hey Comrades ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: We won , Austin .
AUSTIN: Groovy . Smashing ! Good on ya ! Nice tie . Yea capitalism !
COMMANDER GILMOUR: Mr . Powers , the President 's very concerned . We 've got a madman on the loose in Nevada .
BASIL EXPOSITION: It 's Dr . Evil .
AUSTIN: When do I begin ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Immediately . You 'll be working with Ms. Kensington .
AUSTIN: You mean Mrs. Kensington ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: No , Austin , Mrs. Kensington has long- since retired . Ms. Kensington is her daughter .
AUSTIN: My God , Vanessa 's got a smashing ody . I bet she shags like a minx . How do I tell them that because of the unfreezing process , I have no inner monologue ? I hope I did n't say that out loud just now . There is an uncomfortable SILENCE .
VANESSA: Mr . Powers , my job is to acclimate you to the Nineties . You know , a lot 's changed since 1967 .
AUSTIN: Well , as long as people are still having promiscuous sex with many anonymous partners without protection , while at the same time experimenting with mind-expanding
VANESSA: My mother 's told me all about you .
AUSTIN: If it 's a lie , goddamn her . It it 's the truth , goddamn me . God , I hope that 's witty . How 's your mum ?
VANESSA: My mother 's doing quite well , thank you very much .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Yes , wellAgent Kensington will get you set up . She 's very dedicated . Perhaps , a little too dedicated . She 's got a bit of a bug up her ass . Good luck , Austin , the world 's depending on you .
AUSTIN: Thank you , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Oh , and Austin & emdash ;
AUSTIN: Yes ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful .
AUSTIN: Thanks . Basil exits .
VANESSA: Let 's gather your personal effects , shall we ?
CLERK: Danger Powers , personal effects .
AUSTIN: Actually , my name 's Austin Powers .
CLERK: It says here , name Danger Powers .
AUSTIN: Danger 's my middle name .
CLERK: OK , Austin Danger Powers One blue crushed-velvet suit . One frilly lace cravat . One gold medallion with peace symbol . One pair of Italian shoes . One pair of tie-dyed socks , purple . One vinyl recording album Tom Jones , Live at Las Vegas . One Swedish-made penis enlarger pump .
AUSTIN: That 's not mine .
CLERK: One credit card receipt for Swedish- made penis enlarger pump , signed Austin Powers .
AUSTIN: I 'm telling you , baby , that 's not mine .
CLERK: One warranty card for Swedish-made penis enlarger pump , filled out by Austin Powers .
AUSTIN: I do n't even know what this is . This sort of thing ai n't my bag , aby .
CLERK: One book Swedish-Made Penis Enlarge Pumps and Me This Sort of Thing Is My Bag , Baby , by Austin Powers .
AUSTIN: OK , OK man , do n't get heavy , I 'll sign . Just to get things moving , aby .
VANESSA: Listen , Mr . Powers , I look forward to working with you , but do me a favor and stop calling me baby . You can address me as Agent Kensington . We have to leave immediately . We 've preserved your private jet just as you left it . It 's waiting at Heathrow Airport .
AUSTIN: My jumbo jet ? Smashing baby .
VANESSA: I went to Oxford and excelled in several subjects , but I ended up specializing in foreign languages . I wanted to travel see the world . In my last year I was accepted into the M.O.D . in the Cultural Studies sector . I thought I was off on an exciting career , but my job was to ead everything printed in every country . It 's very boring . My whole day is spent reading wedding announcements in Farsi . If I do well with this case , I finally get promoted to field operative
AUSTIN: That 's fascinating , Vanessa . Listen , why do n't we go into the back and shag ?
VANESSA: I beg your pardon ?
AUSTIN: I 've been frozen for thirty years , man , I want to see if my bits and pieces are still working .
VANESSA: Excuse me ?
AUSTIN: My wedding tackle .
VANESSA: I 'm sorry ?
AUSTIN: My meat and two veg .
VANESSA: Mr . Powers , please . I know that you must be a little confused , but we have a very serious situation at hand . I would appreciate it if you 'd concentrate on our mission and give your libido a rest .
AUSTIN: Have you ever made love to a Chigro ?
VANESSA: A Chigro ?
AUSTIN: You know , a Chigro & emdash ; part Chinese , part Negro & emdash ; Chigro .
VANESSA: We do n't use the term 'Negro ' anymore . It 's considered offensive .
AUSTIN: That 's right . You 're supposed to say 'colored ' now , right ? Here 's the stewardesses ! Bring on the sexy stews !
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Excuse me , did you say 'stewardess ' ? We 're called 'flight attendants ' now , thank you very much .
AUSTIN: Oh , I get it , it 's like ' I 'm not a whore , I 'm a sex worker ' , baby .
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: My name is Mrs. Wilkenson . There are a few things we need to discuss . First of all , we 're not wearing these .
AUSTIN: Seems pretty straightforward , do n't you thinklisten darling , I think you 're a fabulous bird . Can I get your telephone number ?
FLGHT ATTENDANT: Sure , it 's easy to remember . It 's 777-FILM . We have to prepare the craft for take-off now .
AUSTIN: Smashing ! When we land I 'll give you a tinkle on the telling bone .
VANESSA: Sure .
AUSTIN: Do I make you horny ?
VANESSA: What ?
AUSTIN: Do I make you horny ? Randy , you know . To you , am I eros manifest ?
VANESSA: I hope this is part of the unfreezing process .
AUSTIN: Listen , Vanessa , I 'm a swinger & emdash ; that 's what I do , I swing .
VANESSA: I understand that , Mr . Powers , but let me be perfectly clear with you , perhaps to the point of being insulting . I will never have sex with you , ever . If you were the last man on Earth and I was the last woman on Earth , and the future of the human race depended on our having sex simply for procreation , I still would not have sex with you . Austin is oblivious .
AUSTIN: What 's you point , Vanessa ?
COMPUTER VOICE: You 've got mail !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Hello Austin . Hello Vanessa . This is Basil Exposition , from British Intelligence .
AUSTIN: Thank you , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Oh , and Austin & emdash ;
AUSTIN: Yes ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful . Vanessa closes her lap-top .
PILOT: Ladies and gentlemen , we 're beginning our final descent into Las Vegas International Airport . Flight attendants will be coming by to collect your drinks , and I 'll ask you at this time to please return to the main cabin and put you ean-bags in the upright position .
DR. EVIL: Ladies and Gentlemen , it 's been a long time , but I 'm back . It 's all gone perfectly to plan except fo one small flaw . Because of a technical error , my right arm was not frozen . I was therefore by definition only partially frozen .
MUSTAFA: But my design was perfect ! You autonomic functions were shut down , and even though your arm was n't frozen , the aging was retarded , therefore your right arm is only slightly older than the left .
DR. EVIL: Ca n't you see I 'm only half a man ? Look at me , I 'm a freak !
MUSTAFA: But Dr . Evil , all you need to do is & emdash ; work with this tennis ball . Squeeze it for twenty minutes a day . A few months of that and it 'll be just as strong as the other arm
DR. EVIL: And look what you 've done to Mr. Bigglesworth !
MUSTAFA: We could not anticipate feline complications due to the reanimation process & emdash ;
DR. EVIL: Silence !
MUSTAFA: Ahhhhhhhhh !
DR. EVIL: Let this be a reminder to you all that this organization will not tolerate failure .
PATTY O'BRIEN: Yes , they 're always after me lucky charms !
FRAU FARBISSINA: It 's a television commercial with this little cartoon Leprechaun who is a benevolent imp who is very concerned that these children will steal his lucky charms which are foodstuffs fashioned into various shapes & emdash ; hearts , moons , clovers , what have you It 's a long story .
DR. EVIL: Finally , I come to my number two man . His name Number Two .
NUMBER TWO: Over the last thirty years , Virtucon has grown by leaps and bounds . About fifteen years ago , we changed from volatile chemicals to the communication industry . We own cable companies in thirty-eight states .
DR. EVIL: Gentlemen , I have a plan . It 's called lackmail . The Royal Family of Britain are the wealthiest landowners in the world . Either the Royal Family pays us an exorbitant amount of money , or we make it look like Prince Charles , the heir to the throne , has had an affair outside of marriage and , therefore , they would have to divorce . There is an uncomfortable silence .
NUMBER TWO: Um , Dr . Evil , Prince Charles did have an affair . He admitted it , and they are now divorced , actually .
DR. EVIL: People have to tell me these things . I 've been frozen for thirty years , throw me a bone here . OK , no problem . Here 's my second plan . Back in the Sixties I had a weather changing machine that was in essence a sophisticated heat beam which we called a `` laser . '' Using this laser , we punch a hole in the protective layer around
NUMBER TWO: Umm , that also has already happened .
DR. EVIL: Right . Oh , hell , let 's just do what we always do . Let 's hijack some nuclear weapons and hold the world hostage . Gentlemen , it 's come to my attention that a breakaway Russian Republic called Kreplachistan will be transferring a nuclear warhead to the United Nations in a few days . Here 's the plan . We get the warhead , and we hold the world ransom
NUMBER TWO: Do n't you think we should ask fo more than a million dollars ? A million dollars is n't that much money these days .
DR. EVIL: All right then
NUMBER TWO: Virtucon alone makes over nine billion dollars a year .
DR. EVIL: Oh , really ? One-hundred billion dollars . OK , make it happen . Anything else ?
FRAU FARBISSINA: Remember when we froze your semen , you said that if it looked like you were n't coming back to try and make you a son so that a part of you would live forever ?
DR. EVIL: Yes .
FRAU FARBISSINA: Well , after a few years , we got sort of impatient . Dr . Evil , I want you to meet your son .
DR. EVIL: My son ?
FRAU FARBISSINA: Yes . Scott !
SCOTT EVIL: Hi .
DR. EVIL: Hello , Scott . I 'm your father , Dr . Evil . I have a son ! I have a son ! Everyone , I have a son ! Someday , Scott , this will all be yours .
SCOTT EVIL: I have n't seen you my whole life and now you show up and want a elationship ? I hate you !
AUSTIN: You 've preserved my Jag ! Smashing !
VANESSA: Yes , we 've had it retrofitted with a secure cellular phone , an on-board computer , and a Global Geosynchronous Positioning Device . Oh , and finally , this .
AUSTIN: Let me guess . The floss is garotte wire , the toothpaste contains plastic explosives , and the toothbrush is the detonation device .
VANESSA: No , actually . I do n't know how to put this really . Well , there have een fabulous advances in the field of dentistry .
AUSTIN: Why ? What 's wrong with my teeth ?
AUSITN: Which side of the bed do you want ?
VANESSA: You 're going to sleep on the sofa . I 'd like to remind you , Mr . Powers , that the only reason we 're sharing a oom is to support our cover story that we 're a married couple on vacation .
AUSTIN: So , shall we shag now , or shall we shag later ? How do you like to do it ? Do you like to wash up first ? Top and tails ? A whore 's bath ? Personally , before I 'm on the job , I like to give my undercarriage a bit of a how's-your-father .
VANESSA: Let 's unpack .
AUSTIN: Gor blimey , nerd alert .
VANESSA: I 'm sure .
AUSTIN: I think I 'll give that stew a ding-a- ling .
VANESSA: Here , use mine .
AUSTIN: I 'm going to use a cover name . It 's important that it be a generic name so that we do n't draw attention to ourselves .
NUMBER TWO: Not at all . The DEALER deals .
DEALER: Seventeen . Zoom in on Number Two 's eyepatch .
NUMBER TWO: Hit me .
DEALER: You have seventeen , sir . The book says not to , sir .
NUMBER TWO: I like to live dangerously . The dealer draws a card from the card shoe .
DEALER: Four . Twenty-one .
NUMBER TWO: I 'll stay .
DEALER: Sir ?
DEALER: Sir ?
VANESSA: What 's wrong ?
AUSTIN: I ca n't see a bloody thing .
VANESSA: Oh , I forgot to tell you , they 're prescription X-ray glasses . I have very bad astigmatism .
DEALER: Sir , the table is waiting .
AUSTIN: Uh , hit me . The table MURMURS .
DEALER: On an eighteen , sir ?
AUSTIN: Yes , I also like to live dangerously . The dealer deals him the ten .
NUMBER TWO: You 're very brave .
AUSTIN: Cards are not my bag , man . Allow myself to introducemyself . My name is Ritchie Cunningham . Vanessa is mortified .
NUMBER TWO: My name is Number Two .
VANESSA: Number Two ? That 's an unusual name .
NUMBER TWO: My parents were hippies . This is my Italian confidential secretary .
ITALIAN WOMAN: My name is Alotta Alotta Fagina .
AUSTIN: I 'm sorry , I 'm just not getting it . It sounds like you 're saying you name is a lot ofnever mind . Listen , cats , I 'm going to crash . It 's been a gas .
NUMBER TWO: Bye-bye , MrCunningham ?
AUSTIN: Peace , baby . Austin and Vanessa leave .
VANESSA: Why did you leave so soon ?
AUSTIN: That cat Number Two has an X-ray eyepatch . I get bad vibes from him , man . Listen , we should go back to the room , but first I have to go to the naughty chair and see a man about a dog . He heads to the rest room .
TEXAN: Good luck , buddy . You do n't buy food , you rent it .
AUSTIN: Too right , youth .
TEXAN: Hey pardner , just relax , do n't force it ! Use some creative visualization .
PATTY O'BRIEN: Ughhhhh
AUSTIN: Who does Number Two work for ?
TEXAN: That 's right ! Show that turd who 's oss !
AUSTIN: Who does Number Two work for ?
PATTY O'BRIEN: Go to hell .
TEXAN: Jesus Christ , what did you eat ?
VANESSA: Hello Mum ?
MRS. KENSINGTON: Oh , hello Vanessa . How was the flight ?
VANESSA: Oh , God no , I made him sleep on the couch .
MRS. KENSINGTON: You have to understand , in Britain in the Sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth . It did n't matter .
VANESSA: I just do n't see it .
MRS. KENSINGTON: Just wait . Once Austin gets you in his charms , it 's impossible to get out .
VANESSA: Did you ever
MRS. KENSINGTON: Of course not . I was married to your father .
VANESSA: Did you ever want to ?
MRS. KENSINGTON: Austin is very charming , very debonair . He 's handsome , witty , has a knowledge of fine wines , sophisticated , a world-renowned photographer . Women want hin , men want to be him . He 's a lover of love & emdash ; every bit an International Man of Mystery .
VANESSA: You did n't answer my question , Mum .
AUSTIN: Good morning , Vanessa ! I hope you have on clean underwear .
VANESSA: Why ?
AUSTIN: We 've got a doctor 's appointment & emdash ; an evil doctor 's appointment .
VANESSA: A limousine has just pulled up .
AUSTIN: Let me see .
VANESSA: How do you know ?
AUSTIN: I never forget a pussycat .
VANESSA: Let 's go get him !
AUSTIN: He 's too well-protected right now .
VANESSA: We ca n't just sit here , Austin .
AUSTIN: Let me tell you a story . There 's these two bulls on top of a hill checking out some foxy cows in the meadow below . The young bull says , 'hey , why do n't we run down the hill and shag us a cow ? ' , and the wise old bull replies , 'no , why do n't we walk down the hill and shag all the cows ? '
VANESSA: I do n't get it .
AUSTIN: Well , you knowcows , and shagging .
VANESSA: Unfortunately , while you told that stupid story , Dr . Evil has escaped .
AUSTIN: No worries , luv . We 'll just give Basil a tinkle on the telling bone
VANESSA: I hate having my picture taken .
AUSTIN: You 're crazy . The camera loves you , Vanessa . Vanessa does a few coy poses .
AUSTIN: Alright , luv ! Love it ! Turnpout for me Vanessa . Smashing ! Crazy . Give me some shoulder . Yes ! Yes ! Yes !
BEAT: Going in very close now . He goes in closer .
AUSTIN: Give me eyes . Give me cornea . Give me aqueous humour . Coming in closer . Give me retina , Vanessa . Even closer . Give me optic nerve . Love it ! Anddone . He throws the camera down .
VANESSA: I could n't have another bite .
AUSTIN: Wait a tick , I forgot something in the lobby . I know what . I 'll take the stairs .
VANESSA: I have n't had fun like that since college .
AUSTIN: I 'm sorry .
VANESSA: Why ?
AUSTIN: I 'm sorry that bug up your ass had to die . She laughs too much , making a SNORTING sound .
VANESSA: Always wanting to have fun , that 's you in a nutshell .
AUSTIN: No , this is me in a nutshell . Austin mimes being trapped in a nutshell .
VANESSA: I am not .
AUSTIN: Oh , yes you are .
VANESSA: I 'm not . I 'm the sensible one . I 'm always the designated driver .
AUSTIN: I ca n't . You 're drunk .
VANESSA: It 's not that I 'm drunk , I 'm just eginning to see what my Mum was talking about . What was my mother like back in the Sixties ? I 'm dying to know .
AUSTIN: She was very groovy . She was so in love with your Dad . If there was one
BASIL EXPOSITION: Hello , Austin , this is Basil Exposition from British Intelligence . Thank you for confirming the link etween Dr . Evil and Virtucon . Find out what part Virtucon plays in something called Project Vulcan . I 'll need you and Vanessa to get on that immediately .
AUSTIN: Right away , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Where is Vanessa , by the way ?
AUSTIN: She 's working on another lead right now .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Then you 'll have to go it alone . Good luck .
AUSTIN: Thank you , Basil .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Oh , and Austin & emdash ;
AUSTIN: Yes ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Let me remind you that because of the unfreezing process you might experience flatulence at moments of extreme relaxation .
AUSTIN: Oh , yes . Thank you .
BASIL EXPOSITION: There 's one more thing , Austin .
AUSTIN: Yes ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful .
AUSTIN: Thank you .
ALOTTA: I thought you 'd quit while you were ahead .
AUSTIN: What , and watch all my earnings go Down the toilet ?
ALOTTA: What do you want , MrCunningham , was it ?
AUSTIN: Call me Ritchie , Miss Fagina . May I call you Alotta Please ?
ALOTTA: You may .
AUSTIN: Your boss , Number Two , I understand that cat 's involved in big underground drills .
ALOTTA: Virtucon 's main interest is in cable television , but they do have a subterranean construction division , yes . How did you know ?
AUSTIN: I did n't , baby , you just told me .
ALOTTA: It 's for the mining industry , Mr. Cunningham . We can talk about usiness later . But first , let me slip into something more comfortable .
AUSTIN: Behave !
ALOTTA: Come in .
AUSTIN: I 'd rather talk about Number Two .
ALOTTA: Do n't you like girls , Mr. Cunningham ? Come in , and I 'll show you everything you need to know .
AUSTIN: Groovy .
ALOTTA: In Japan , men come first and women come second .
AUSTIN: Or sometimes not at all .
ALOTTA: Care for some saki ?
AUSTIN: Sak-i it to me !
ALOTTA: How do you feel , Mr. Cunningham ?
AUSTIN: MmmmI feel extreme relaxation .
ALOTTA: That 's very clever . Do you know any other poems ?
AUSTIN: 'Milk , milk , lemonade . Round the corner fudge is made .
ALOTTA: Thank you , that 's beautiful . To your health .
AUSTIN: To my health .
ALOTTA: Kiss me .
AUSTIN: Is it about my teeth ?
ALOTTA: Yes .
AUSTIN: Damn . What exactly do you do at Virtucon ?
ALOTTA: I 'll tell you all in due time , afte we make love . But first , tell me another poem .
AUSTIN: I think it was Wordsworth who penned this little gem 'Press the button , pull the chain , out comes a chocolate choo-choo train . '
ALOTTA: Oh , you 're very clever . Let 's make love , you silly , hairy little man . She glides over to him .
DR. EVIL: Austin Powers is getting too close . He must be neutralized . Any suggestions ?
FRAU FARBISSINA: Ya wohl & emdash ; I mean , yes wohl , Herr Doctor . I have created the ultimate weapon to defeat Austin Powers . Bring on the Fembots !
DR. EVIL: Breathtaking , Frau . These automated strumpets are the perfect bait fo the degenerate Powers .
FRAU FARBISSINA: These are the latest word in android eplicant technology . Lethal , efficient , brutal . And no man can esist their charms . Send in the soldiers !
DR. EVIL: Quite impressive .
FRAU FARBISSINA: Thank you , Herr Doctor .
DR. EVIL: I like to see girls of that caliber . By caliber , I mean both the barrel size of their guns and the high quality of their characterForget it .
NUMBER TWO: That would be the video feed from Kreplachistan .
DR. EVIL: Gentlemen , Phase One is complete . The warhead is ours . Let Phase Two egin ! Patch us through to the United Nations security secret meeting room .
EVIL ASSOCIATES: Ha-ha-ha-ha .
PAUSE: Ohhhh , ahhhhhh Ohhh , hmmmm . hmn .
DR. EVIL: OkayWellI think I 'm going to watch some TV .
EVIL ASSOCIATES: Okay . Sure . They exit the frame awkwardly .
AUSTIN: Hello , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin , Vanessa , let me bring you up to speed . Dr . Evil has high-jacked a nuclear warhead from Kreplachistan and is holding the world ransom fo one-hundred billion dollars . If the world does n't pay up in four days , he 's threatening to destroy the world .
AUSTIN: Thank you , Exposition . Only two things , scare me , and one is nuclea war .
BASIL EXPOSITION: What 's the other ?
AUSTIN: Excuse me ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: What 's the other thing you 're scared of ?
AUSTIN: Carnies .
BASIL EXPOSITION: What ?
AUSTIN: Circus folk . Nomads , you know . They smell like cabbage .
BASIL EXPOSITION: IndeedIf we could get back to the usiness at hand . It 's one thing to have a warhead , it 's quite anothe thing to have the missiles to launch it .
AUSTIN: Maybe these photographs are the last piece of that puzzle . I 've uncovered the details on Project Vulcan . It 's a new subterranean warhead delivery system .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Good God , and underground missile . We 've long feared such a development .
VANESSA: When did you find that out , Austin ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin did some reconnaissance work at Alotta Fagina 's penthouse last night .
VANESSA: Oh .
BASIL EXPOSITON: Our next move is to infiltrate Virtucon . Any ideas ?
VANESSA: Yes , Virtucon runs a tour of thei facilities every hour . I suggest we pose as tourists and do site-level econnaissance .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Top drawer , Kensington . Oh , Austin , I want you to meet somebody .
AUSTIN: That 's not your mother , that 's a man ! Austin begins tugging on her hair .
MRS. EXPOSITION: Owwwmy hair !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Get away from my mother !
VANESSA: Austin , have you gone mad ?
MRS. EXPOSITION: Who is that man ? Why did he hit me ?
BASIL EXPOSIION: Do n't worry , mother . Lie down . Austin , you have a lot of explaining to do .
AUSTIN: I 'm sorry , Basil , I thought she was a man .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Damn it , man ! You 're talking about my mother !
AUSTIN: You must admit , she is rather mannish . No offense , but if that 's a woman , it looks like she 's been beaten with an ugly stick .
VANESSA: Really , Austin !
AUSTIN: Look at her hands , baby ! Those are carpenter 's hands .
BASIL EXPOSITION: All right , Austin , I think you should go .
AUSTIN: I think if everyone were honest , they 'd confess that the lady looks exactly like a man in drag .
BASIL EXPOSITION: I 'm leaving ! Oh , and Austin ?
AUSTIN: Yes , Basil ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful .
AUSTIN: Thanks . Basil escorts his mother out .
VANESSA: Austin , may I have a word with you ?
AUSTIN: Of course , luv .
VANESSA: Listen , I know I 'm just being neurotic , but I ca n't shake this suspicious
AUSTIN: Do n't be sorry . You 're right to be suspicious . I shagged her . I shagged her rotten .
VANESSA: I ca n't believe you made love to he just like that . Did you use protection ?
AUSTIN: Of course , I had my nine-millimete automatic .
VANESSA: No , did you use a condom ?
AUSTIN: Only sailors use condoms , man .
VANESSA: Not in the Nineties .
AUSTIN: Well they should , filthy beggars , they go from port to port . Alotta meant nothing to me .
VANESSA: Well , it means something to me . If you want us to have a relationship , you 've got to be a one-woman man .
AUSTIN: It was just a shag , Vanessa . You 're everything to me .
VANESSA: You just do n't get it , do you , Austin ? Good night . Welcome to the Nineties , you 're going to be very lonely .
AUSTIN: Hello , luv .
VANESSA: Thirty years of political and social upheaval . The fall of the Berlin wall , a female Prime Minister of England , the abolishment of Apartheid , a fascinating tapestry of human strum und drang .
AUSTIN: Yeah , I ca n't believe Liberace was gay . Women loved him , man . I did n't see that one coming .
VANESSA: Basil was very concerned to know where you were last night .
AUSTIN: Out and about , doing odds and sods .
VANESSA: I 'll tell him . By the way , I 've decided we should keep ou elationship strictly professional .
SON 1: I love you , Dad .
DAD 1: I love you , Son .
THERAPIST: That was great , Mr. Keon , Dave . Thank you . OK , group , we have two new member . Say hello to Scott and his father , Mr.Ehville ?
DR. EVIL: Evil , actually , Doctor Evil .
GROUP: Hello , Dr . Evil . Hello , Scott .
SCOTT EVIL: Hello , everybody .
THERAPIST: So , Scott , why do n't we start with you . Why are you here ?
SCOTT EVIL: Well , it 's kind of weird .
THERAPIST: We do n't judge here .
SCOTT EVIL: OK. Well , I just really met my Dad for the first time three days ago . He was partially frozen for thirty years . I never knew him growing up . He comes back and now he wants me to take over the family business .
THERAPIST: And how do you feel about that ?
SCOTT EVIL: I do n't wan na take over the family usiness .
DR. EVIL: But Scott , who 's going to take ove the world when I die ?
SCOTT EVIL: Not me .
THERAPIST: What do you want to do , Scott ?
SCOTT EVIL: I do n't know . I was thinking , maybe I 'd be a vet or something , cause I like animals and stuff .
DR. EVIL: An evil vet ?
SCOTT EVIL: No . Maybe , like , work in a petting zoo or something .
DR. EVIL: An evil petting zoo ?
SCOTT EVIL: You always do that ! Anyways , this is really hard , because , you know , my Dad is really evil .
THERAPIST: We do n't label people here , Scott .
SCOTT EVIL: No , he 's really evil .
THERAPIST: Scott .
DR. EVIL: No , the boy 's right . I really am evil .
THERAPIST: Do n't be so hard on yourself . You 're here , that 's what 's important . A journey of a thousand miles begins with one step .
SCOTT EVIL: I just think , like , he hates me . I eally think he wants to kill me .
THERAPIST: OK , Scott , no one really wants to `` kill '' anyone here . They say it , ut they do n't mean it . The group LAUGHS .
DR. EVIL: Actually , the boy 's quite astute . I am trying to kill him . My Evil Associates have cautioned against it , so here he is , unfortunately , alive .
THERAPIST: We 've heard from Scott , now let 's hear from you .
DR. EVIL: The details of my life are quite inconsequential .
THERAPIST: That 's not true , Doctor . Please , tell us about your childhood .
GROUP: Yes , of course . Go ahead , etc .
DR. EVIL: Very well , where should I begin ? My father was a relentlessly self- improving boulangerie owner from Belgium with low-grade narcolepsy and a penchant for buggery . My mothe was a fifteen-year-old French prostitute named Chloe with webbed feet . My father would womanize , he would drink , he would make outrageous claims , like he invented the question mark . Sometimes he would accuse chestnuts of being lazy . A sort of general malaise that only the genius possess and the insane lament . My childhood was typical .
AUSTIN: Since I 've been unfrozen , I 've had a ancid taste in my mouth . Do you have a piece of gum ?
VANESSA: Do you think she 's prettier than I ?
AUSTIN: Who ?
VANESSA: You know who .
AUSTIN: No ! Do n't lay your hang-ups on me , Vanessa . You 're being very trippy .
VANESSA: I 'm looking at you , and the whole time I ca n't help thinking you had your willie inside her hootchie-kooch .
AUSTTIN: Well put . Listen love , we ca n't keep having this fight . I 'm an International Man of Mystery . Sometimes in the course of my work to save the world I have to shag some crumpet . It 's all part of the job .
TOUR GUIDE: Welcome to Virtucon , the company of the future . Virtucon is a leading manufacture of many items you 'll find right in your own home . We make steel , volatile chemicals , petroleum-based products , and we also own the Franklin mint , which makes decorative hand- painted theme plates for collectors . Some plates , like the Gone With The Wind series , have gone up in value as much as two-hundred and forty percent , but , as with any investment , there is some risk involved . The people on the tour APPLAUD .
AUSTIN: I 'll take him , you take her .
VANESSA: Austin , we do n't look anything like our photo badges .
AUSTIN: Do n't worry , baby . I picked up a mind control technique during my travels to India . I learned it from my guru , the late Guru Shastri , a chaste man who mysteriously died of a disease that had all the hallmarks of syphilis . Just watch me . Watch me , now . They reach the guard .
GUARD: Hi , folks . You 're entering a estricted zone . Can I see you security badges ?
AUSTIN: Sure .
GUARD: Hey , wait a minute & emdash ;
VANESSA: That 's amazing . Let 's go !
AUSTIN: Hold on one second . Austin again does his mind control trick .
GUARD: Here , have a piece of gum . He hands Austin a piece of gum .
AUSTIN: Do n't mind if I do .
GUARD: Hey ! Wait a minute , that 's my last piece of gum . Austin does his mind-control again .
AUSTIN: No , no , I want you to have it , even if it 's my last piece .
GUARD: No , no , I want you to have it , even if it 's my last piece .
AUSTIN: I 'm going to go across the street and get you some sherbert .
VANESSA: Austin , we have to go ! She pulls him away .
SCIENTIST: This is the strongest , sharpest drill it ever produced by man . It weighs fifteen metric tones and can bore through a mile-thick bedrock of solid granite in seven seconds .
ANNOUNCER: Attention , there are intruders in the complex .
SCIENTIST: Get them !
AUSTIN: Judo chop ! Judo chop !
AUSTIN: Our only way out of here is to drive out !
GUARD: Noooooooooooooo !
AUSTIN: Where did you learn to shoot ?
VANESSA: Where did you learn to drive ?
GUARD: Noooooooooooooo !
VANESSA: Austin , watch out !
AUSTIN: Where ? Where ?
GUARD: Noooooooooooooo !
VANESSA: Thank God , Austin , we made it .
AUSTIN: Yes , act naturally and we 'll split this scene the way we came in , Vanessa .
MRS. HARWIN: Sit down , Billy , I have some bad news . As you know , your brothe Steven was a henchman in Dr . Evil 's Private Army .
BILLY: Was ? What is it , Mom ?
MRS. HARWIN: Your brother was run over by a steamroller .
BILLY: A steamroller ? No , not Steve ! Since Dad died , Steve 's been like a father to me .
MRS. HARWIN: I 'm sorry son . People never think how things affect the family of the henchman . I love you , Billy . I wonder if we 'll be able to receive Steve 's henchman 's comp .
DR. EVIL: Frau Farbissina , check on our guests .
VANESSA: I do n't understand .
DR. EVIL: My hand , dammit ! Look at it !
AUSTIN: What 's wrong with your hand ?
DR. EVIL: Do n't try to suck up to me ! It 's a little late for that . I 'm a freak ! Look at it , it 's been rendered useless .
AUSTIN: I 'm sorry , baby , I 'm just not grocking your head space .
DR. EVIL: Oh forget it . As a fellow player on the international stage , Mr . Powers , I 'm sure you 'll enjoy watching the curtain fall on the third and final act .
AUSTIN: Does that make you horny ?
VANESSA: Not now , Austin .
DR. EVIL: The world 's most powerful subterranean drill .
BASIL EXPOSITION: My God , man , do n't you understand ? It wo n't just be active volcanoes , inactive ones will erupt as well . Seven-eighths of the Earth 's land mass will be deluged with hot magma . Tectonic plates will shift , causing massive earthquakes . Imagine no United Kingdom . Think of it , no cricket , no tea , no freshly toasted crumpets smothered with Devonshire clotted cream , the diving mystery of Stonehenge . Imagine severing foreve the continuity of Britannic majesty , the demise of this sceptered isle , this jewel , this England
DR. EVIL: Gentlemen , your deadline is in three hours . You have your instructions . Good-bye . The screen goes BLACK .
SCOTT EVIL: Well , me and a buddy went to the video arcade in town and , like , they do n't speak English right , and so my uddy gets into a fight , and he goes 'hey , quit hassling me cause I do n't speak French or whatever ' , and the other guy goes something in Paris talk , and I go 'um , just back off ' and he goes 'get out ' and I go 'make me ' .
DR. EVIL: Fascinating . What are your plans for this evening ?
SCOTT EVIL: Thought I 'd stay in . There 's a good tittie movie on Skinemax .
DR. EVIL: And that 's how you want to live you life , is it ?
SCOTT EVIL: Yeah . What ?
DR. EVIL: Scott , I want you to meet Daddy 's nemesis , Austin Powers .
SCOTT EVIL: Why are you feeding him ? Why do n't you just kill him ?
DR. EVIL: In due time .
SCOTT EVIL: But what if he escapes ? Why do n't you just shoot him ? What are you waiting for ?
DR. EVIL: I have a better idea . I 'm going to put him in an easily-escapable situation involving an overly- elaborate and exotic death .
SCOTT EVIL: Why do n't you just shoot him now ? Here , I 'll get a gun . We 'll just shoot him . Bang ! Dead . Done .
DR. EVIL: One more peep out of you and you 're grounded . Let 's begin .
AUSTIN: Dr . Evil , do you really expect them to pay ?
DR. EVIL: No , Mr . Powers , I expect them to die . Even after they pay me the money , I 'm still going to melt all the cities of the world with hot magma . All right , guard , begin the unnecessarily Slow-Moving Dipping Mechanism .
FRAU FARBISSINA: Dr . Evil ?
DR. EVIL: Yes , what is it ? You 're interrupting my moment of triumph .
FRAU FARBISSINA: It 's about the sharks . Since you were frozen , they 've been placed on the Endangered Species List . We tried to get some , but it will take months to clear up the red tape .
DR. EVIL: Right . Mr . Powers , we 're going to lower you in a tank of piranhas with lase eams attached to their heads . Frau clears her throat again .
FRAU FARBISSINA: Well , we experimented with lasers , ut you would be surprised at how heavy they are . They actually outweighed the piranha themselves , and the fish , well , they sank to the ottom and died .
DR. EVIL: I have one simple request & emdash ; sharks with friggin ' laser beams attached to their heads , and it ca n't e done ? Remind me again why I pay you people ? What do we have ?
FRAU FARBISSINA: Sea bass .
DR. EVIL: Right .
FRAU FARBISSINA: They 're mutated sea bass .
DR. EVIL: Really ? Are they ill-tempered ?
FRAU FARBISSINA: Please allow me to demonstrate .
DR. EVIL: Fine . Whatever . Mutated , ill- tempered sea bass it is . Come , let 's return to dinner . Close the tank .
SCOTT EVIL: Are n't you going to watch them ? They 'll get away !
DR. EVIL: No , we 'll leave them alone and not actually witness them dying , and we 'll just assume it all went to plan .
SCOTT EVIL: I have a gun in my room . Give me five seconds , I 'll come back and low their brains out .
DR. EVIL: No Scott . You just do n't get it , do you ?
VANESSA: What 's your plan ?
AUSTIN: First , I plan to soil myself . Then , I plan to regroup and think about the next move . Any thoughts ?
VANESSA: Sadly , no . Hold on ! I always keep this on me just in case . She pulls out a container of dental floss .
AUSTIN: All right , I get it . I have bad teeth . You have to understand , in Britain in the Sixties you could be a sex symbol and still have bad teeth . It did n't matter .
VANESSA: No , no , no . We 'll use the floss to get to the ledge .
AUSTIN: Smashing idea ! Give it to me .
GUARD: My eyes ! My eyes !
AUSTIN: Hold on , Vanessa !
VANESSA: Austin , watch out !
AUSTIN: Not a good time to lose one 's head .
VANESSA: Indeed .
AUSTIN: That 's not the way to get ahead in life .
VANESSA: Yes .
AUSTIN: It 's a shame he was n't more headstrong .
VANESSA: Shut up .
AUSTIN: Fair enough .
GUY 1: I ca n't believe John Smith is getting married tomorrow .
GUY 2: Where is Smittie anyways ? It 's not like him to be late for anything , especially his own stag party .
GUY 3: Well , you know he 's a henchman fo Dr . Evil . Sometimes they work late . Can I just say something that may sound a little sappy ? I think it 's a testament to our friend John that so many of his buddies showed up in his honor . There 's a lot of love in this room .
WAITRESS: Hi , I have a phone call here for the John Smith party .
GUY 1: Hello ? Yes , I have a friend named John Smith . That 's right , he 's in Dr . Evil 's private army . What ? He 's dead ? Decapitated by mutated flying sea ass ? Oh my God ! OK , thank you . He hangs up .
GUY 2: Hey Bill , what 's wrong ? Was that John ? Is he coming late ?
GUY 1: Guys , John 's not coming .
GUY 2: Why ?
GUY 1: He was decapitated by mutated flying sea bass .
GUYS: Oh no , oh my God , etc .
GUY 1: All right , to Smittie ! Everyone raises their glasses .
GUYS: To Smittie !
VANESSA: What do we do now ?
AUSTIN: We 've got a freaked out square and world annihilation is his bag . You go get help . I 'm gon na stay here and keep an eye on the bad Doctor .
VANESSA: I 'm not going anywhere . We 're a team .
AUSTIN: Too right , youth . That 's why I need you to lead the troops .
VANESSA: I 'll hurry back .
AUSTIN: Listen , Vanessa , whatever happens , I just want you to know that I feel ad about shagging that Italian girl . I had a sip of sake and all of the sudden , I do n't know what happened . The whole time I was shagging her & emdash ; I mean really shagging her , I mean it was crazy , I was like a huge mechanical piston , in and out , IN and OUT ! & emdash ;
VANESSA: Austin , what 's your point ?
AUSTIN: Anyways , what I 'm trying to say is that if you want me to be a one-woman man , well , that 's just groovy , ecauseI love you .
VANESSA: Oh , behave ! Vanessa goes out the door .
DR. EVIL: Come , everyone , let us repair to the main chamber . Project Vulcan is about to begin . Scott , are you coming ?
SCOTT EVIL: I do n't want to .
DR. EVIL: Do n't you want to see what Daddy does for a living ?
SCOTT EVIL: Blow me .
DR. EVIL: What did you say ?
SCOTT EVIL: Show me .
AUSTIN: Hello , hello .
FEMBOT: Hello , Mr . Powers , care to have a little fun ?
AUSTIN: No , actually , I have to save the world .
DR. EVIL: Arm the probe !
AUSTIN: I 've got to get Dr . Evil ! Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day ! Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day ! Margaret Thatcher naked on a cold day !
DR. EVIL: Probe in place .
FEMBOT: You ca n't resist us , Mr . Powers . Eventually you 'll give in .
AUSTIN: Au contraire , I think you ca n't resist me .
AUSITN: Oh , I fell over .
AUSTIN: It 's not what it looks like , Vanessa . At ease , boys .
VANESSA: Likewise .
AUSTIN: I can explain . They attacked me . Gas came out of herwell , and then theyand I
VANESSA: I believe you , Austin . Let 's go .
AUSTIN: Hold on a tick , let me put on my togs .
DR. EVIL: Activate the blast shutters !
AUSTIN: Follow me ! We 're going to have to jump over the rail !
VANESSA: Are you crazy ?
AUSTIN: Do n't worry !
VANESSA: Austin , I 'm coming with you .
AUSTIN: I 'm going it alone this time , Vanessa . I have a follow-up visit with the Evil Doctor .
VANESSA: I 'll secure the perimeter .
AUSTIN: Well , Destructacon 5000 , you have quite a head on your shoulders , I dare to coin .
DR. EVIL: Well done , Mr . Powers . We 're not so different , you and I . It 's true , you 're British , and I 'm Belgian . You have a full head of hair , mine is slightly receding . You 're thin , I 'm about forty pounds overweight . OK , we are different , I 'm not making a very good point . However , is n't it ironic , Mr . Powers , that the very things you stand for & emdash ; swinging , free love , parties , distrust of authority- are all now , in the Nineties , considered to
AUSTIN: No , man , what we swingers were ebelling against were uptight squares like you , whose bag was money and world domination . We were innocent , man . If we 'd known the consequences of our sexual liberation , we would have done things differently , but the spirit would have remained the same . It 's freedom , man .
DR. EVIL: Your freedom has cause more pain and suffering in the world than any plan I ever dreamed of . Face it , freedom failed .
AUSTIN: That 's why right now is a very groovy time , man . We still have freedom , ut we also have responsibility .
DR. EVIL: Really , there 's nothing more pathetic than an aging hipster .
ALOTTA: Not so fast .
DR. EVIL: Well , it seems the tables have turned , Mr . Powers . Just then , Scott Evil enters .
SCOTT EVIL: Hey , Dad , I can take my Sega , right ?
AUSTIN: It seems the tables have turned again , Dr . Evil .
DR. EVIL: Not really . Kill the little bastard . See what I care .
AUSTIN: Man , you are one chilly square !
SCOTT EVIL: Dad , we just made a breakthrough in group !
DR. EVIL: I had the group liquidated , you little shit . They were insolent .
SCOTT EVIL: I hate you ! I hate you ! I wish I was never artificially created in a lab .
DR. EVIL: Scott , do n't say that
VANESSA: This is for sleeping with my man , you whore !
ALOTTA: I did n't sleep with him .
VANESSA: I do n't believe you .
ALOTTA: It 's the teeth .
VANESSA: OK , I believe you . But you still must be chopped . Vanessa gives her a judo chop .
AUSTIN: Let 's split !
VANESSA: I have something to tell you .
AUSTIN: Lay it on me .
VANESSA: I love you , Austin .
AUSTIN: That 's fab , because I love you , too , Vanessa .
VANESSA: Kiss me .
AUSTIN: Behave !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Well , Austin , you 've stopped Dr . Evil from destroying the world with his subterranean nuclear probe , and somehow you and Agent Kensington managed to escape unscathed from his evil lair .
AUSTIN: I 'd say that about sums it up , Exposition .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Not quite , actually . Vanessa , I have something for you .
VANESSA: Thank you , Exposition . I 'm honored .
AUSTIN: Congratulations , Field Agent Kensington !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin , I have something for you as well . He hands him a business card .
AUSTIN: Thanks , Basil . Maybe the Nineties are n't so bad after all .
VANESSA: Oh , Austin . Austin and Vanessa embrace and kiss .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin , now , about your next mission & emdash ; Still kissing Vanessa , Austin motions with his thumbs to the pilot of the helicopter to lift Basil up . He rises away in mid- sentence .
AUSTIN: Yes Basil ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Be careful !
AUSTIN: So , Dr . Evil , do you expect the world to pay the ransom ?
DR. EVIL: No , Mr . Powers , I expect them to die .
ROGER MOORE: Oh , behave !
INDIAN AUSITN: Well , my good fellow , are you expecting me to pay the ransom to you , you despot ?
AUSTIN: Behave !
NARRATOR: In his last adventure , Austin Powers , a swinging spy from the Sixties , was unfrozen in the Nineties to battle his archenemy Dr . Evil . Austin foiled Dr . Evil 's plan to send a nuclea warhead to the center of the earth and banished him into space forever . Or so he thought .
VANESSA: I love you , Mr . Powers .
AUSTIN: And I love you , Mrs . Powers .
VANESSA: Let 's go out on the terrace . It 's a eautiful night , we can look at the stars .
AUSTIN: Look how beautiful the night sky is .
VANESSA: Is n't that the big dipper ?
AUSTIN: Yeah , and that looks just like Uranus .
VANESSA: Austin !
AUSTIN: Well , you know .
VANESSA: Hey , I 've never seen that big sta efore .
AUSTIN: Yeah , what is that ?
DR. EVIL: This is n't over yet , Mr . Powers . I have one more trick up my sleeve , do n't I Mr. Bigglesworth ? The frozen Mr. Bigglesworth MEOWS .
AUSTIN: Oh well , I guess it was nothing .
VANESSA: Just putting on my
AUSTIN: Vanessa , you 're a Fembot !
AUSTIN: I ca n't believe Vanessa , my bride , my one true love , the woman who taught me the beauty of sharing your whole life with another , the person who taught me the meaning of love , was a Fembot . How will I ever go on ? Wait a tic ! That means I 'm single ! Oh , behave !
AUSTIN: Shaguar , baby , yeah !
BOBBY: Dad , I know you 're against race mixing and all that , but I met someone
KLANSMAN: Do n't say it ! The crowd WHOOPS .
BOBBY: I met someone and he 's black . The crowd goes crazy .
KLANSMAN: He ?
JERRY SPRINGER: Please welcome Tim .
SCOTT: Well he 's the head of an evil organization that has aspirations for world domination .
JERRY SPRINGER: And where is your father right now ?
SCOTT: He 's in outer space , like frozen in a giant egg and stuffed inside a Big Boy rocket with his cat , Mr. Bigglesworth .
JERRY SPRINGER: Really ? Well , we have a surprise fo you , Scott . Let 's bring out
SCOTT'S: father , Dr Evil . Dr Evil enters .
DR. EVIL: Hello Scott , I 'm back .
SCOTT: I ca n't believe you 'd do this to me on national television !
DR. EVIL: They offered me a free makeover .
JERRY SPRINGER: Dr . Evil , we 've seen a lot of the fathers here today open up to thei sons , sons to the fathers . Is there anything you 'd like to share ?
DR. EVIL: Share ?
JERRY SPRINGER: Yes , do n't you have any secrets ?
DR. EVIL: OK . I have a vestigial tail . Everyone is a little grossed out .
KLANSMAN: What are you , some kind of freak ?
SCOTT: Shut up , jagoff ! Studio audience whoops at this .
KLANSMAN: I 'll kick your ass punk ! Crowd goes crazy .
DR. EVIL: No one talks to my boy that way !
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , as the legitimate frontman of your organization , I seized upon the opportunity to invest in a small Seattle-based coffee company several years ago . Today , Starbucks is a far- flung empire with 2000 outlets worldwide .
DR. EVIL: Oh good , Number Two , I do enjoy a good cuppa joe .
NUMBER TWO: If I may continue , I believe if we shift our resources away from world domination and focus on providing premium quality coffee drinks , we can increase our gross profits fivefold .
DR. EVIL: Right . Perhaps you 've confused me with someone who gives a shit . Might I remind you that I run the show here ? I demand a little respect .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , I think you
DR. EVIL: Silence ! I will not tolerate you insolence ! Remember what happened last time .
NUMBER TWO: May I add , I appreciate you einstating me after our little misunderstanding .
DR. EVIL: Frau Farbissina . Wie gehts is einen ?
FRAU: Zehr gut , Herr Doctor .
DR. EVIL: How are things ?
FRAU: I have come to embrace the love that dare not speak it 's name . To my right is my lover .
DR. EVIL: Right on . Welcome , Unibrau .
FRAU: Doctor , you have a 'milk mustache . '
DR. EVIL: Oh , I know . I know .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , I 'd like to introduce the Greek assassin , Oedipus . We see a swarthy Greek army guy .
DR. EVIL: Welcome to my private army , Oedipus . Excited ?
OEDIPUS: I could give a shit .
DR. EVIL: Kiss your mother with that mouth ?
OEDIPUS: Yes .
DR. EVIL: Of course you do .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , as you know , the rate at which you liquidate henchmen fa exceeds our ability to replace them .
DR. EVIL: I have so few pleasures left to me , Number Two . The key to life is to otate your vices . One day it 's executions , another day it 's creamy French cheese . It 's like frickin ' heroin .
NUMBER TWO: Well , Dr . Evil , perhaps I have the answer . While you were frozen , we egan a program to clone you .
DR. EVIL: Cool .
NUMBER TWO: We had a few glitches , but I think you 'll be pleased with the results .
FRAU: Send in the clone !
NUMBER TWO: He is identical to you in every way , except he is one-eighth your size .
DR. EVIL: Breathtaking . I shall call him Mini- Me . Mini-Me , you will sit to my right .
NUMBER TWO: Uh-hem .
DR. EVIL: What , that already happened ? Number Two nods .
NUMBER TWO: No , not that I 'm aware of .
DR. EVIL: Alright , time machine it is . As you know , every diabolical scheme I 've hatched has been thwarted by Austin Powers . And why is that , ladies and gentlemen ?
SCOTT: Because you never kill him when you get the chance and you 're a dope ?
DR. EVIL: No , because Austin Powers has `` mojo '' .
NUMBER TWO: Mojo ?
FRAU: Yes , mojo . The mojo is the life force , the essence , the libido , the `` right stuff '' .
DR. EVIL: It 's what the French call a certain ' I do n't know what . '
SCOTT: If you 've got a time machine , why do n't you just go back and kill Austin Powers when he 's a baby or something ?
DR. EVIL: No , no , no .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , would n't it be easier to use your knowledge of the future to play the stock market ? We could literally make trillions .
DR. EVIL: Why make trillions when we could make Billions ?
NUMBER TWO: Excuse me ?
DR. EVIL: Why think small is all I 'm saying .
SCOTT: A trillion is more than a billion , numb-nuts .
DR. EVIL: Zip it . Unveil the time portal !
SCOTT: Can I come ?
DR. EVIL: No , Scott , Daddy has a score to settle . Austin Powers is the snake to my mongoose , or the mongoose to my snake . Either way it 's bad , I do n't know animals . But I do know this This time it 's personal . Frau , Number 2 , I 'll see you both in 1969 . Come , Mini-Me .
NUMBER TWO: Hello there . Mini-me says nothing .
DR. EVIL: Mini-Me ? Mini-me still says nothing .
BRITISH COLONEL: We 've had reports that there 's a spy in the Ministry of Defense . The contents of this room are vital to the country . Be on special alert .
FAT SOLDIER: Those bastards will have to kill me efore I let anything happen to this wee naked hairy popsicle , sir !
BRITISH COLONEL: Very good . And try and lose some weight for God 's sake ! They exchange salutes and the Colonel exits .
FAT SOLDIER: Yessir ! I outta smash your teeth out with a Toffee Hammer Mr. English Colonel Telling-Me-What-To-Do-And-Stealing- our-Oil-Refusing-To-Recognize- our- Scottish-Independence !
AUSTIN: Gor blimey , I 'm on empty ! That 's funny , I just filled the Shaguar up this morning . Austin hits a button on the dashboard .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Hello , I 'm Basil Exposition , head of British Intelligence .
AUSTIN: You always are , Basil . Listen , the weirdest thing just happened , I 've un out of petrol .
BASIL EXPOSITION: We 'll send a man around immediately . How was your honeymoon ?
AUSTIN: Vanessa tried to kill me , Basil . She was a Fembot !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Ah women , who can understand them ? Moving on , let 's discuss your new case .
AUSTIN: New case ? Very shagadelic , Basil !
BASIL EXPOSITION: You 'll be doing a photo shoot . We know that one of the models is an ex- KGB agent selling top secret material to the highest bidder .
AUSTIN: That sounds easy enough , you know what they say all work and no shagging makes Austin a dull boy , man !
REG: Austin , the models are ready .
AUSTIN: Ta , Reg . Bless your cotton socks . Hey , Reg , do you have any hobbies ?
REG: What ?
AUSTIN: Hobbies , man ! I for one enjoy making models !
SUPERMODELS: It 's him ! Oh my God ! It 's Austin Powers !
AUSTIN: One at a time , girls . One . At . A . Time !
CINDY: Hi , I 'm Cindy . I do n't believe I 've had the pleasure .
AUSTIN: Of course you have n't had `` The Pleasure '' , we just met , baby , yeah !
REBECCA: How do you do , Austin ? I 'm Rebecca . Your equipment is quite impressive .
AUSTIN: Thank you . Your breasts are amazing .
MODEL: Ivana Humpalot .
AUSTIN: Excuse me ?
IVANA: Ivana . Ivana Humpalot .
AUSTIN: And I vanna toilet made of solid gold but it 's just not in the cards , now is it ?
REBECCA: A lemur ?
AUSTIN: A small mammal native to the African savannah . C'mon baby , you know . Like this ! OK , predator coming ! Now , burrow , urrow ! You 're a lemur . It 's all you 've got . I take it back . Be a tiger again . Smashing !
REG: Hel-lo , you forgot about Ivana .
AUSTIN: I did n't forget , baby . Miss Humpalot and I are going to have a 'private session ' .
IVANA: When did you get `` The Clapper '' ?
AUSTIN: November , 1964 , Dutch East Indies , shore leave .
IVANA: Are you cold , Mr . Powers ?
AUSTIN: I once had a bad experience with frostbite . I had to dip my tadge into a brandy snifter .
IVANA: Do you know how we keep warm in Russia ?
AUSTIN: I can guess , baby .
IVANA: We play chess .
AUSTIN: I guessed wrong .
IVANA: It takes a keen intelligence to play chess . Of course , you know what they say about men with big brains , do n't you ?
AUSTIN: They wear large hats ?
IVANA: No , they make better lovers .
AUSTIN: Wrong again .
IVANA: I assume you know how to play . She runs the bishop across her lips sexily .
AUSTIN: Of course . The horsey moves in an L shape .
IVANA: Of course .
AUSTIN: Do I make you horny ? Do I ? Austin rolls around on the polar bear rug .
IVANA: I 'll tell you anything you want to know , just make love to me .
AUSTIN: Grrrr , baby . Austin takes the head of the bear skin rug .
IVANA: Make love to me , monkey man .
AUSTIN: Groovy , baby !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Where is he ? In here ?
AUSTIN: There must be some kind of mistake , Basil . Maybe I was drunk and I did n't know it . Austin holds his neck very stiffly .
BASIL EXPOSITION: What 's wrong with your neck , Austin ?
AUSTIN: I took a Viagra and it got caught in my throat . I 've had a stiff neck fo hours . Basil , is it true ? Have I lost my mojo ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: We 're going to run a few tests , Austin . Do n't worry , old friend , we 'll get to the bottom of this .
NURSE: Excuse me , Mr . Powers , I need to give you a sponge bath before we egin the test .
AUSTIN: Alright , miss , just let me finish this article on the Suez crisis .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Alright , everyone , we 're done .
AUSTIN: But the test has n't even started !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Agent Haggerty was the test , Austin . Not only were you actually reading an article in that Playboy , but a candy-stripe nurse offering to give you a sponge bath did n't so much as turn your head .
AUSTIN: Wait , I can explain , man ! I was going to shag her but the article was so fascinating
BASIL EXPOSITION: I 'm sorry , Austin , I 'm afraid it 's true you 've lost your mojo .
AUSTIN: Without my mojo , I 'm useless to the Ministry and to Her Majesty . I think it 's time to retire .
BASIL EXPOSITION: I 'm afraid that 's not possible , Austin . You see , Dr . Evil has eturned .
AUSTIN: Again ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Again .
AUSTIN: I ca n't read in the car . I get a bit vomy . Austin burps and swallows it .
BASIL EXPOSITION: That 's what they 'd like you to elieve .
AUSTIN: So , Basil , if I travel back to 1969 and I was frozen in 1967 , I could go look at my frozen self . But , if I 'm still frozen in 1967 , how could I have been unthawed in the 90 's and traveled back to the Sixties ? Oh , no , I 've gone cross-eyed .
BASIL EXPOSITION: I suggest you do n't worry about those things and just enjoy yourself . Austin gets into the car and turns it on .
AUSTIN: This is smashing Basil . I 'll go back to the Sixties , recharge my mojo , defeat Dr . Evil and be back in time for tea .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Good luck , Austin .
AUSTIN: Luck has nothing to do with it , Basil .
FELICITY: Care for a ride ?
AUSTIN: That 's my Beetle , baby .
FELICITY: It was your Beetle . Get in .
AUSTIN: Powers by name , Powers by reputation .
FELICITY: Felicity Shagwell , CIA . Shagwell by name , Shag-very-Well by reputation .
AUSTIN: Crazy , baby !
FELICITY: Grab the wheel , would you ?
ASSASSIN: Ahhhhhhhh !
FELICITY: Well , Austin , I think this time you may have met your match .
AUSTIN: Oh , I 've beaten Dr . Evil before , and I 'll beat him again .
FELICITY: I was talking about me . She smiles , turns , and walks away .
AUSTIN: Welcome to my shag pad , baby .
FELICITY: Yes , I rather fancy a grind .
AUSTIN: Oh , Behave !
FELICITY: Mmm , lower .
FELICITY: Wait , something 's itching me .
AUSTIN: Crikey ! ! !
FELICITY: Oh , that was so relaxing . Felicity stretches very sexily .
AUSTIN: Would you 'like to see my etchings ?
FELICITY: I think I 'm ready for bed .
AUSTIN: I 'll get you some PJs .
FELICITY: No , I 'm ready for bed . She moves over to him . He avoids her .
AUSTIN: Oh , you 'll want to clean your teeth then .
FELICITY: No , I want to have sex with you , Austin .
AUSTIN: Hello Vicar !
FELICITY: I 've studied everything about you- your methods , your accomplishments , your preferences . You 're the reason I became a spy . Now , I 've waited two years to meet you , so I say we get usy making up for lost time . Austin sits up .
AUSTIN: Felicity , I used to think that way , too , but I guess I guess I 've changed . Not to make a short story long , or to ramble on and on , or to keep talking in a repetitive manne ad infinitum until it becomes impossible to remember what I was talking about in the first place , ut- where was I ?
FELICITY: Oh .
AUSTIN: I thought coming back to the Sixties would bring it back , but it has n't .
FELICITY: Austin , do n't worry . I know just the man to help you . He 's my guru . Ringo ecommended him and he 's the best .
AUSTIN: I 'll warm up the Jumbo Jet , baby !
FELICITY: There he is . That 's my guru .
AUSTIN: How are you baby ?
GURU PITKA: My chakras are aligned and I am in a perfect state of equipoise .
AUSTIN: Good on ya . I do n't know what that means but it sounds fab .
FELICITY: Guru , we need some advice .
GURU PITKA: Hold your horses and any other beasts- of burden . I must lead my disciples in meditation and then I will help you .
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhhh !
GURU PITKA: My name is the Guru Pitka . I am a spiritual teacher and I have combined many disparate disciplines into a unified movement of human potentiality and equipoise that I learned from my guru , the late Guru Shastri , a chaste man who died mysteriously of a disease that strangely had all the hallmarks of syphilis . He would say to me , Sparky , love is all , life is breath .
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhhh !
GURU PITKA: Now , perhaps you are wondering where I got the nickname Sparky . Well , when we were young we used to play a game called `` Stinkmop '' . We would urinate into a bucket , dip a mop into it , and play tag . I did not care for `` Stinkmop '' and a very wise old man said to me 'oh lighten up , Sparky ' , and I do n't know , the name kind of stuck .
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhhhhh
GURU PITKA: Now , the reason I am a spiritualist instead of a therapist is that 'therapist ' often becomes 'the rapist ' and that will not help us attain potentiality . Now what is potentiality ? It is the ability to achieve those goals that we wish to achieve for ourselves . People often say to me that they feel `` nowhere '' , and I am going to change that to `` Now here . ''
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhhhh
GURU PITKA: And you have many assumptions about your goals , but when you `` assume '' You make an `` ass '' out of `` u '' and `` me '' .
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhhhh .
GURU PITKA: The being , or that which we call 'ourselves ' , is not the tinker . It is not the taughts . It is the Gap etween the tinker and the taughts ! We are not our mind , we are not ou ody , we are the Gap !
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhh
GURU PITKA: The heart of the matter is that you are the heart of the matter . There is no `` I '' in `` team '' . Beer before liquor , never sicker . Do n't take a wooden nickel . If your pipe is short and your pump is weak , you bette stand close or you 'll piss on you feet . He who goes to bed with itchy um wakes up with smelly finger .
DISCIPLES: Ahhhhh
GURU PITKA: Finally , the path to spiritual awakening requires the death of ego . Leggo of my ego ! Let us end with the mantra Om Ay Vant Yu Uh Mo Ay Vant Yu Uh Mo Ay Vant Yu Hu .
DISCIPLES: Om Ay Vant Yu Uh Mo Ay Vant Yu Uh Mo Ay Vant Yu Hu . The Guru takes a swig of Yoo-Hoo .
GURU PITKA: Go with God , and pay at the doo please .
AUSTIN: Guru , I 'm having trouble performing .
GURU PITKA: What do you mean ?
AUSTIN: You know- my bits and pieces are a it sleepy .
GURU PITKA: I 'm not understanding .
AUSTIN: I 've forgotten the steps to the Mummy- Daddy dance .
GURU PITKA: Still not clear .
AUSTIN: My flag 's at half mast and no one will salute it .
GURU PITKA: Sorry ?
AUSTIN: My Willie do n't work .
GURU PITKA: Why are you beating around the bush ?
AUSTIN: That 's my problem .
GURU PITKA: Ohhhhh , I get it . No , I do n't get it .
FELICITY: He 's impotent !
AUSTIN: Alright , easy . Felicity and I were all set for some hump Olympics and I could n't bat fo six .
GURU PITKA: Oh , yes , I see .
AUSTIN: You have no idea what I 'm saying , do you ?
GURU PITKA: Not a word .
AUSTIN: Guru , I 've lost my mojo .
GURU PITKA: Oh , mojo ! You should have said so . Well , you 've lost your mojo because your chakras are misaligned . You have lost love .
AUSTIN: Lost love ? Oh , you mean Vanessa ?
FELICITY: Who 's Vanessa ?
AUSTIN: She was an evil robot minion of Dr . Evil . I could n't have loved her .
GURU PITKA: Denial ai n't just a river in Egypt , uddy . You will only get your mojo ack when you surround yourself with love .
AUSTIN: Oh , I get what you 're saying now ! He 's talking about free love , baby ! Tune in , turn on , and drop out !
GURU PITKA: I am talking about true love . You must stay and study until you are worthy .
AUSTIN: No way , man . The only way to surround yourself with love is to throw a swinging shin-dig ! Yeah , baby , yeah !
DR. EVIL: Well done , Fat Bastard . May I have the mojo ?
FAT BASTARD: First things first , where 's you shitter ? I 've got ta bleepin , turtle head pokin ' out .
DR. EVIL: Right . Charming . Fat Bastard- you do n't mind me calling you Fat Bastard do you ?
FAT BASTARD: I 've got a lot of demons kickin ' around in my noggin , but weight issues ai n't one of them .
DR. EVIL: Alright , Fatty-
FAT BASTARD: The name is Fat Bastard ! I 'm the incorrect weight for my height and I was born out of wedlock , hence the moniker Fat Bastard . Hey , I 'm not kiddin ' . I 've got a crap on deck that could choke a donkey .
DR. EVIL: Fat Bastard , the mojo ?
FAT BASTARD: Where 's my money ?
DR. EVIL: A gentlemen never discusses money .
FAT BASTARD: Fine , you can take your in ' money and shove it up your , you stupid prick ! While you 're at it you can suck my greasy , two-toned !
DR. EVIL: Vulgarity is no substitute for wit .
FAT BASTARD: you !
DR. EVIL: Right . Bring in the money .
FAT BASTARD: Alright , here it is .
DR. EVIL: Mini-Me , fetch .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , I have some bad news . Austin Powers is back in the Sixties . One of our best assassins spotted him ut he got away .
DR. EVIL: This is ri-goddamn-diculous , we have his mojo .
NUMBER TWO: There is another . Felicity Shagwell ,
DR. EVIL: Scott , what are you doing here ?
SCOTT: I do n't know , I was sitting around watching the tube and The Courtship of Eddie 's Father came on Nick at Nite , you know , and I was just listening to that theme song Anyway it made me think that maybe we could try and work things out . You know , you are my Dad and I need you .
DR. EVIL: You had your chance , Scott . I already have someone created in my image . He 's evil , he wants to take over the world , and he fits easily into most overhead storage bins . Has anyone seen Mini-Me ? Mini-Me ! Mini-Mouse ? Mini-Driver ? Hello ! Mini Pearl ? Can we put a frickin ' bell on him or something ?
SCOTT: Nothing Darth .
DR. EVIL: What did you call me ?
SCOTT: Nothing . Rip-off !
DR. EVIL: Bless you ? Anyways , since my `` death star '' laser was invented by the noted Cambridge physicist , Dr. Parsons . I thought we 'd name it in his honor the Alan Parsons Project . Scott SNICKERS again .
SCOTT: The Alan Parsons Project was a progressive rock band from 1982 . Why do n't you just name it Operation Wang Chung , ass ?
DR. EVIL: When you get your own evil empire , you can call it whatever you want . Gentlemen , allow me to demonstrate the awesome lethality of the Alan Parsons Project . Fire the laser !
NUMBER TWO: My God , Dr . Evil , you destroyed the Wihite House with no warning !
DR. EVIL: Actually , that was just footage from the 1996 blockbuster motion Picture Independence Day , but it would be a lot like that . What do you think , Scott ?
SCOTT: Yeah , Codename Thompson Twins was eally impressive .
DR. EVIL: Shhhh !
SCOTT: I 'm nineteen , I don't-
DR. EVIL: Shh ! Shh-Shh . Shh-Shhhhhh-Shh . Shh- shh ! It 's Morse code . Let me decipher it says 'shhhhh ! '
SCOTT: You are so lame-
DR. EVIL: SssssshuuuuuhShhhhh !
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , what are we going to do about Powers ?
DR. EVIL: Fat Bastard , in addition to being extremely rotund , you 're a vicious killer . Take care of it .
FAT BASTARD: It 'll be my pleasure .
DR. EVIL: It 's an easy job . Without his mojo , Powers will bepowerless ?
AUSTIN: This shag-in is gon na blow your mind , aby , yeah !
PREGNANT WOMAN: Hey !
AUSTIN: You 'll thank me later , baby . Another angle . Austin and Felicity dancing .
RICARDO: Hello , Austin ! Balls , said the queen and the king laughed because he had too .
AUSTIN: Crazy , man !
FELICITY: Let 's split up and scope the scene .
AUSTIN: Do n't do anything I would n't do- at least not without me .
CHICK: No .
AUSTIN: Would you like to ?
LONDON COP: Have you ever been picked up by the fuzz ?
FELICITY: No , but I bet it really hurts .
AUSTIN: The Austin Powers Sexy Dictionary defines an Eskimo hooker as a frosty prosty .
ESKIMO: I do n't get it .
AUSTIN: Those are skin tight . How do you get into those pants , baby ?
FELICITY: Well you can start by buying me a drink . Austin does a spit take .
VIKING: You were great last night . By the way , I 'm Thor .
FELICITY: You 're Thor ? I 'm tho thor I can hardly thit .
AUSTIN: Hello , I am Baron Von Firstinbed . Last night I had German-Chinese food . An hour later I was hungry- for power .
ZEUS GUY: Oh puh-leez , why do n't you take a handful of F-off pills ?
AUSTIN: Did you hear about the contortionist who was engaged to be married ?
FELICITY: Yeah , I heard she broke it off .
ARTIE JOHNSON: Verrrrry interesting- but shtupid !
FELICITY: Look at that .
AUSTIN: That 's not a pretty sight . Who is he ?
FELICITY: Until recently he worked security for the MOD , but we think he might e a double agent , possibly for Dr . Evil .
AUSTIN: How do you know ?
FELICITY: We 've noticed that his lifestyle has changed dramatically . He 's made a lot of cash purchases , he 's hanging out with foxes half his age , and he 's becomes quite a fixture on the London party circuit .
AUSTIN: Who 's the girl ?
FELICITY: I do n't know , but it looks like he 's splitting . Fat Bastard exits .
AUSTIN: Hello , hello .
GIRL: Hello , Mr . Powers . Fab party .
AUSTIN: Who are you today , baby ?
GIRL: Robin . Robin Swallows .
AUSTIN: Swallows ? That 's an interesting name . Are you English ?
ROBIN SWALLOWS: German , actually . My maiden name is Spitz .
AUSTIN: Well which is it , baby , Spitz o Swallows ? Either way , it 's a pleasure .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: The pleasure is mine .
AUSTIN: Charmed , I 'm sure . How do you do ? Yes , quite . I always enjoy meeting new people . How 's your mum ? Good . I love shaking hands .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: His name is Fat Bastard .
AUSTIN: It suits him .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: He 's my lover . Austin is grossed out .
AUSTIN: OK. Would you happen to know if he 's in business with a man named Mr . Evil ?
ROBIN SWALLOWS: I do n't know anyone named Dr . Evil .
AUSTIN: Really ? I said Mister Evil . Austin does a smug take .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: Yes , I 'd love a Doctor Pepper .
AUSTIN: Really ? I said Mister Pepper .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: You 're a groovy boy , I 'd like to strap you on sometime .
AUSTIN: Oh , behave !
FAT BASTARD: and I 'll have a fried-prawn sandwich , with extra mayonnaise , two whole chickens , a kidney pie , a toad in the hole , bubble and squeak , angers and mash , 3 orders of fish and chips , and a Fresca . No ice . We pan to see Felicity beside him .
FELICITY: I love a man with a large appetite .
FAT BASTARD: And I love a woman with big , so let 's shut up and get to ing . Felicity swallows hard and forces a smile .
AUSTIN: Can I ask you a question ?
ROBIN SWALLOWS: Yes .
AUSTIN: Thank you . Beat .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: Well , what 's the question ?
AUSTIN: Oh , yes . Would you like to shag ? Would you ?
ROBIN SWALLOWS: I 'd love to , Mr . Powers , just come ight over here . Robin moves Austin into place as they dance .
AUSTIN: You 're a bit of alright .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: Oedipus use the revolver .
AUSTIN: Sorry baby , too late . He 's as dead as vaudeville .
ROBIN SWALLOWS: You ca n't win , Powers . Dr . Evil has your mojo and it 's only a matter of time before he kills you and takes over the world . Tell Fat Bastard I 'll miss him
FAT BASTARD: I always get in ' hungry afte I get my end away !
FELICITY: I never would have thought that a man of such tremendous girth could e such a , um , creative and sensuous lover !
FAT BASTARD: You want some chicken ? I have more ! He rolls over to reveal his HUGE NAKED ASS .
DR. EVIL: Get me the President of the United States .
PRESIDENT: Dr . Evil , what do you want ?
DR. EVIL: Not what I want Mr. President , but I will receive . In 12 hours I will destroy Washington , DC with a giant laser .
DR. EVIL: One hundred billion dollars ! The President and his advisors LAUGH .
PRESIDENT: Dr . Evil that 's more than the entire federal budget for 1969 .
DR. EVIL: Do n't play games with me . The capitol will disappear if I do n't receive
DR. EVIL: One hundred billion dollars ! His advisors LAUGH .
PRESIDENT: That much money simply does n't exist . I do n't think l00 billion is even a number . It 's like saying I want a kajillion bajillion dollars . His advisors LAUGH .
DR. EVIL: Come on , Mr. President
PRESIDENT: What ?
DR. EVIL: `` Show me the money ! '' He looks around again , expectantly .
PRESIDENT: I 'm sorry , I do n't understand .
DR. EVIL: You know , kwan ? Show me the money ? No ? Nothing ?
SCOTT: It 's 1969 . That movie wo n't come out for another 30 years , ass . They do n't know what you 're talking about .
DR. EVIL: Right . OK , see if you understand this give me the money or I 'm going to blow you to frickin ' bits , OK ? The President and his advisors MURMUR .
PRESIDENT: But-
DR. EVIL: Talk to the hand ! Dr . Evil signs off .
DR.EVIL: Okay , everybody clear the room !
DR. EVIL: Yeah , baby . Very shagedelic . This is n't working . I do n't feel anything . We PUSH IN towards Dr . Evil 's head .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , one last thing . I oh .
DR. EVIL: I was just right . Would it kill you to frickin ' knock ?
FELICITY: Austin , tell me about the Nineties .
AUSTIN: You know I ca n't tell you details about the future , baby , it could alter history .
FELICITY: Not details , just what it 's like . You know , what 's the scene ? Where 's it at ?
AUSTIN: There 've been a lot of advances in the Nineties , baby . The economy is stable , people take better care of their health concern for the environment is on the rise and , um , let 's see , there 's an entire television channel dedicated to golf .
FELICITY: Sounds awful .
AUSTIN: It 's not so bad once you get used to it . The Nineties are about esponsibility . You know , having espect for yourself and other people . I even got married .
FELICITY: You ? Married ? What about the sexual evolution ?
AUSTIN: Well , it turns out there were some casualties , baby . Do n't you think you 'll ever get married ?
FELICITY: No , not until I get a little more 'experience ' under my belt .
AUSTIN: Oh , behave !
FELICITY: What is it ! Is it Fat Bastard ?
AUSTIN: No , written here on my hand , see ?
FELICITY: Austin , look .
AUSTIN: Felicity , I have n't had this much fun since I worked undercover in Amsterdam '66 I think it was .
FELICITY: 1965 , actually . You posed as a Dutch cheese expert to stop Dr . Evil from poisoning the world 's water supply . Austin is impressed .
AUSTIN: Very impressive .
FELICITY: Austin , your voice !
AUSTIN: Yes , I think I 'm coming down with something .
FELICITY: No thanks .
AUSTIN: Could I have two scoops of Vanilla , please ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Hello , Austin . What 's wrong with your voice ?
AUSTIN: I just had ice cream . Listen to me , I have dairy throat . `` Mary had a little lamb and it was always gruntin ' . She tied it to a five ba gate and kicked it 's little-
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin ! Things are heating up , so I thought it best to contact you in disguise . Felicity , your plan worked . You and Austin track Fat Bastard ack to Dr . Evil .
AUSTIN: But how can we track Fat Bastard ?
FELICITY: I planted a homing device on him last night .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Yes , and we 're starting to pick up the signal now .
AUSTIN: How did you get close enough to plant a homing device ?
FELICITY: I shagged him , I shagged him rotten .
AUSTIN: You him ? Just like that ?
FELICITY: Yes , Austin , we needed that information .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Well , thanks to your effort , Felicity , we now know that-
AUSTIN: Did you use an elaborate set of pulleys ? A block and tackle ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Anyway , you two follow the signal ack to Dr . Evil 's headquarters and then-
AUSTIN: I just ca n't get my head around it , aby . You 're so small and he 's so not small . The sheer mechanics of it are mindboggling !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Never mind , Austin , you two have work to do . You must find Dr . Evil .
AUSTIN: I got it ! A Chinese basket with a counter-weighted ballast . That 's how you did it , right ?
FELICITY: Austin , it almost sounds like you 're jealous .
AUSTIN: Who , me ? That 's not possible , baby ! is it ?
FELICITY: We 're obviously on the right track . It looks like Fat Bastard is-on an island in the middle of the ocean .
AUSTIN: According to the readings , Dr . Evil 's headquarters is over the next ridge .
FELICITY: Can I have a look ?
AUSTIN: Sure .
FELICITY: Question is , how do we get in ?
AUSTIN: Mmmmmmmmmmmm
FELICITY: Austin , did you hear me ?
AUSTIN: I seem to be stuck in your dirty pillows .
FELICITY: Where are the topographical maps that Basil drew up ?
AUSTIN: I think they 're in the tent .
FELICITY: Here we go , one hammer . It 's amazing how much this duffel bag will hold .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , that was fantastic , but I do have some bad news . Powers ' is on the island .
DR. EVIL: How tedious .
NUMBER TWO: Do n't worry , Dr . Evil , we can get to him by using the girl .
DR. EVIL: Really ?
NUMBER TWO: I have the perfect weapon . Frau ?
FRAU: Bring in the He-Bots !
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , may I present the He-Bots . What kind of woman could resist these perfect specimens of masculinity ? Their clothes are stylish , thei posture is ramrod straight , and thei uttocks are tight , like tigers . And , each He-Bot is armed with a secret weapon .
DR. EVIL: Right . I object to the last one on aesthetic grounds , but I do n't care how you get Powers , just bring him to me . Ready Mini-Me ? A one and a two and
FAT BASTARD: Christ Almighty , it smells terrible in here .
DR. EVIL: It 's the volcanic sulphurous emissions . We 've put up some ai fresheners .
FAT BASTARD: Great , now it smells like someone took a shite in a pine tree .
NUMBER TWO: Dr . Evil , the laser has been loaded into the rocket . You 're ready fo launch .
DR. EVIL: I 'm just waiting to taunt my nemesis . I have so few pleasures , you know .
AUSTIN: We meet again , Dr . Evil .
DR. EVIL: Yes , the only reason I 'm keeping you alive is so you can feel the agony of watching my plan unfold .
AUSTIN: Dr . Evil your plan will never
DR. EVIL: Oh , is that yours ?
AUSTIN: My mojo !
DR. EVIL: You know what they say finders keepers , loser weepers .
FELICITY: Dr . Evil , do you like real estate ?
DR. EVIL: Of course . Why ? Felicity kicks Dr . Evil in the balls .
FELICITY: Now you 've got a couple of achers .
DR. EVIL: Oww ! My stomach hurts !
AUSTIN: I do n't care if he is evil , you do n't give a man a shot in the pills . It 's just not cricket , baby .
DR. EVIL: Take them away . The guards lead Austin and Felicity away .
SCOTT: She just hoofed you in the sack and you 're going to leave them alone in a jail cell with one inept guard ? They 'll escape , dipshit . You do this every time !
DR. EVIL: You 're going the right way for a smacked bottom , young man .
SCOTT: You do n't own me !
DR. EVIL: I do actually . It 's complicated . Usually it 's illegal ut this buddy of mine but I digress . Fat Bastard , I 'm leaving you in charge . I 'm going up the moon to hold the world ransom with my giant laser , I should n't be long .
FAT BASTARD: What about Powers ?
DR. EVIL: He 's tucked away safely in his cell . He 's harmless without that mojo . Guard it with your life . Number Two , begin the countdown .
NUMBER TWO: Five , four , three
OPERATOR: Colonel , you better have a look at this radar .
COLONEL: What is it , son ?
OPERATOR: I do n't know , sir , but it looks like a giant
PILOT: Dick !
MAN: Pecker !
WOMAN: Where ? He raises his binoculars .
MAN: Over there . A rare red-billed woodpecker ! What sort of bird is that ? Oh goodness , it 's not a bird , it's-
SERGEANT: Privates ! We have reports of an Unidentified Flying Object . It has a long , smooth shaft , complete with-
UMPIRE: Two balls ! No strikes . What is that ? It looks just like an enormous
COLONEL: Johnson !
RADAR OPERATOR: Yes , sir ?
COLONEL: Get on the horn to British Intelligence and let them know about this .
FELICITY: How are we going to get out of here ?
AUSTIN: Why do n't you just shag Fat Bastard again ?
FELICITY: Austin , that is it ! I do n't know what happened to you in the Nineties , ut I 'm still here , in the Sixties , and I still swing ! Do n't try to lay your hang-ups on me just because you lost your mojo ! That one hurts .
AUSTIN: Ouch , baby , very ouch . I 'm wounded .
FELICITY: I 'm sorry , Austin , that was a cheap shot .
AUSTIN: No , baby , you 're right . I was wrong to judge you . I guess I am jealous .
FELICITY: But the Austin Powers I knew was wild and crazy and free . He could never be jealous .
AUSTIN: That Austin is gone . I 've changed . I knew someone , not long ago , a very special woman . She taught me that life is n't about jumping into the sack with whoever comes along , it 's about caring and responsibility . And while it is true she turned out to e an evil robot minion of Dr . Evil , I suppose I really did love her .
FELICITY: Was that your wife ?
AUSTIN: Yes , Vanessa . Felicity is touched .
FELICITY: Listen , Austin , I ca n't pretend to understand everything you 've gone through , but I trust you . I 'll make you a deal if we get out of here alive , I 'll give monogamy a try .
AUSTIN: With me ?
FELICITY: Yes , silly .
AUSTIN: Groovy , baby ! They kiss .
FELICITY: We need to lure the guard inside and get his key .
AUSTIN: Alright , what if I pretend to be desperately ill with food poisoning ? The guard , drawn by my cries of pain , will come to investigate . Meanwhile , you dig a pit and line it with makeshift punji sticks made from sharpened toothbrushes . The guard falls in , Bob 's your uncle , and we 've got the key . What do you think ?
FELICITY: That might work , but how about this ?
GUARD: Mommy He unlocks the door and enters .
FELICITY: It 's very hot in here , do n't you think ? The guard follows her into the cell .
AUSTIN: I 'm very firmly wedged .
FELICITY: If you want something done
AUSTIN: Almost got it !
DR. EVIL: Has anyone seen my gravity booties ? Honestly , all I wanted was a frickin ' moon base . Hello , we 're on the moon , no gravity ? Mini-Me ? Are you alright ?
FELICITY: Where 's your mojo , Austin ?
AUSTIN: I 'm not sure .
FELICITY: Who said anything about fighting ?
AUSTIN: Smashing , Felicity , you were making me very horny , man ! Extremely randy , indeed !
FAT BASTARD: Looking for this , Mr . Powers ?
AUSTIN: Give me back my mojo , Fat Bastard !
FAT BASTARD: I give the orders , for brains . Guards , take them back to their cells . Guards approach .
FELICITY: Hold on , let me ask you one question .
FAT BASTARD: Alright , I guess I owe you that much for a night of carnal ecstasy . Austin is grossed out .
FELICITY: Are you happy ?
FAT BASTARD: What kind of stupid ass question is that ? I 'm in ' rich and I 'm up to my tits in clean stinky .
FELICITY: You did n't answer my question , are you happy ?
FAT BASTARD: It 's about my girth is n't it ? Sure I could lose a few pounds , but I could shiva git !
FELICITY: Are you happy ?
FAT BASTARD: Of course I 'm not happy . Look at me , I 'm a big fat slob . I 've got bigge titties than you do ! I 've got more in ' chins than a Chinese phone ook . I 've got more crack cheese than a in ' dairy . I 've nay seen ma willie in two years . That 's enough time to declare it legally deed ! I ca n't stop eating . I eat ecause I 'm unhappy and I 'm unhappy ecause I eat . I 'm caught in a cycle and there 's no escape !
AUSTIN: Maybe inside that Fat Bastard there 's a thin bastard , trying to get out
FAT BASTARD: Maybe there 's big crap inside me trying to get out , jack-ass ! Enough of your in ' new age aphorisms . Listen , I 've run the gamut of self- help books . `` Food is n't love '' , right , ut how do you get it from the page to the in ' fork ? I 'm so weak , I hate myself . I 'm for shite . Here , take the mojo . Fat Bastard hands over the mojo .
AUSTIN: Hold on , I have something very important to do . Austin drinks the mojo .
FELICITY: How do you feel ?
AUSTIN: Sound as a pound , my spuds are oiling . Fancy a shag ?
FELICITY: Austin , we do n't have time .
AUSTIN: C'mon , luv , let 's hop on the good foot and do the bad thing !
FELICITY: Dr . Evil 's taken his laser to the moon . The world is in danger .
AUSTIN: Right , the moon . I think I know someone who can give us a lift .
ASTRONAUT: I am a rocket scientist .
AUSTIN: Felicity , if you get frightened , just hold my hand .
FELICITY: Yaaaaa-hoooo !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin , you have achieved lunar orbit . How was that lift-off ?
AUSTIN: To be honest it was terrifying . It felt like sitting on top of a bomb . As I punched through the atmosphere , I said 'Oh my God ! ' and I soiled myself .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Happens all the time in that situation .
AUSTIN: No , I mean I soiled myself just now when I said oh 'my God ! '
FELICITY: Basil , it was amazing !
BASIL EXPOSITION: Prepare for moon landing . We only have one hour until Dr . Evil fires the laser !
AUSTIN: This is one small step for man , but a giant step for shagging . Can you imagine it , baby , weightless ? The permutations are mind-boggling .
FELICITY: Naughty boy ! Austin plants a UNION JACK on the moon .
AUSTIN: God Save the Queen .
MISSION COMMANDER: The Queen ? This is an American show , goddammit . Let 's roll that footage we shot last week in the studio .
DR. EVIL: Position the laser .
PRESIDENT: What ? I ca n't hear you .
DR. EVIL: Pay me 100 billion dollars or see Washington DC destroyed ! The ALARM BLARES .
PRESIDENT: I 'm sorry , I just ca n't hear you .
DR. EVIL: How about now ?
PRESIDENT: Better .
DR. EVIL: The Capital will be destroyed- The ALARM BLARES .
PRESIDENT: Sorry ! I just can't- I think it 's that alarm .
DR. EVIL: Could someone shut off that frickin ' alarm ? I 'm trying to hold the free world hostage here . Honestly .
PRESIDENT: Please Dr . Evil , be reasonable . That 's more money than is in the entire Federal Treasury !
DR. EVIL: Oh well , I guess you have one minute to- `` show me the money '' !
PRESIDENT: I still do n't know what that means . I ca n't show you the money because we do n't have the money .
DR. EVIL: Then I suppose you 're up shit 's crick without a paddle .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Gentlemen , Austin has landed on the moon . We 'll soon know whether he has succeeded or whether the world will e destroyed !
FELICITY: Let 's find Dr . Evil . Suddenly , Austin notices something .
AUSTIN: Shhh
FELICITY: Austin , you 've done it ! You got Dr . Evil !
AUSTIN: Of course I did , baby , I got my mojo working overtime .
FELICITY: Austin , I 'm going ahead . Cover my ear !
AUSTIN: Oh , behave !
DR. EVIL: Are n't you forgetting something ?
AUSTIN: Felicity ! What have you done to her ?
DR. EVIL: Do n't worry , she 's not dead yet .
FELICITY: Do n't worry about me Austin . You 've got to save the world !
DR. EVIL: It looks like you have a choice , Powers save the world , or save you girlfriend .
AUSTIN: I 've got my mojo back , man , I can do oth .
DR. EVIL: We 'll see . Fire the laser !
AUSTIN: Hands off my joystick , baby .
DR. EVIL: Damn you , Powers !
AUSTIN: See , Dr . Evil I told you I could do oth .
DR. EVIL: Perhaps you spoke too soon .
AUSTIN: Noooooo ! Austin BANGS on the glass with his fists .
DR. EVIL: You make love to your wife out of duty , your mistress for pleasure , and a Roman boy for ecstasy . Shit .
AUSTIN: I have to commandeer this vehicle . Hey , are n't you Hutch ?
DAVID SOUL: I 'm Hutch .
JAMES CAMERON: I 'm king of the world !
AUSTIN: I 'm going to kill you , you bastard !
DR. EVIL: Before you do that , know this Austin , I am your father .
AUSTIN: Really ?
DR. EVIL: No . I ca n't back that up . I was just grasping at straws . I had nothing . But is n't it interesting , Mr . Powers , you really have become a product of the Nineties .
AUSTIN: How so ?
DR. EVIL: You 're more interested in your jo as glorified policeman than you are in love . You won the battle , but I won the war . Love means nothing , you 've proved it .
AUSTIN: I did n't think that Felicity was going to die , man .
DR. EVIL: What a cowardly response . I 'm disappointed really . You have the power to go back in time and save her , but it means letting me go .
AUSTIN: Felicity ! Austin runs through .
DR. EVIL: It looks like you have a choice save the world , or save you girlfriend .
AUSTIN: I choose love , baby .
FELICITY: But I thought-
AUSTIN: That was another place and anothe time , baby .
FELICITY: Ca n't . Breathe .
AUSTIN: Sorry , baby , I got a little over- stimulated .
DR. EVIL: Fire the laser !
AUSTIN: What do we do ?
FELICITY: Use your mojo !
AUSTIN: I do n't have it !
FELICITY: Trust me , you do !
BASIL EXPOSITION: He did it , he saved the world ! Of course , I thought he might .
FELICITY: Austin , you did it ! They embrace .
AUSTIN: Uh-oh . I think I just got my mojo back . Really .
FELICITY: Austin , you had it all along . No one can take your , mojo away from you !
DR. EVIL: Good-bye , Mr . Powers , for the last time .
RADAR OPERATOR: Sir , you better have a look at this adar .
COLONEL: What is it ?
RADAR OPERATOR: do n't know , sir . It 's hard to describe . It 's it's-
DOCTOR: Just a little prick ! The kid CRIES .
CHINESE TEACHER: Wang !
CHINESE STUDENT: I 'm sorry , Comrade Teacher . was distracted by that enormous flying-
RACHEL HUNTER: Rod ?
ROD STEWART: Yes , Rachel ?
RACHEL HUNTER: What 's that ?
ROD STEWART: It looks like a giant-
BASIL EXPOSITION: Peters !
CAPTAIN PETERS: Yes , sir ?
BASIL EXPOSITION: Any word from Austin ?
CAPTAIN PETERS: We 've picked up his signal , but the lunar base seems to self-destructing .
BASIL EXPOSITION: Austin , if you can hear me , use the time portal ! There 's no time to get to the lunar module ! Use the time portal !
FELICITY: Austin , you have to get to the time portal !
AUSTIN: Come with me , Felicity ! It 's the only way out !
FELICITY: Austin , will I fit in the Nineties ?
AUSTIN: If I did , anyone can . Let 's go , baby !
FELICITY: Sorry !
AUSTIN: Do n't worry baby it takes some getting used to . Let me ask you Felicity , do you feel any side effects from the time travel ?
FELICITY: I 'm as healthy as a horse .
AUSTIN: I love you , Felicity .
FELICITY: And I love you .
AUSTIN: Do you want to get married ?
FELICITY: Absolutely not .
AUSTIN: Thank God . They kiss .
ALAN: We thought this was going to be a eality series .
COLETTE: You know , like the Kardashians . They listen . Here comes the bad news .
ALAN: Oh . Really ? A documentary ? This is going to be a documentary about our writing group ?
COLETTE: The whole group . Not just us , right ? Not that it should be just about us Nervous laugh .
ALAN: No .
COLETTE: So this is going to be likelike what I saw the other night on cable ? About bees mating .
ALAN: Or that , um , that one about the Holocaust . Colette nods , remembering .
COLETTE: Powerful .
ALAN: Powerful . Yes . Powerful .
COLETTE: We love documentaries .
ALAN: We do .
HANNAH: I really like the way Yuri is developing , Colette .
COLETTE: You do ?
JOHN: Well , if you ask John K. Butzin
ALAN: I was bothered by that , too . Why would Natasha betray a reliable , dependable husband for a washed-up young punk ?
COLETTE: Oh . Wellumum
ALAN: Poodles . It 's OK .
COLETTE: No . It 's not OK . I still ca n't explain Natasha 's motive . What 's the use ? I 'm not a writer . William to the rescue .
WILLIAM: Whoa . Whoa . Time out . The dude 's good in bed . Trust me , that 's all the motive she needs .
JOHN: Roger that . Torpedo Chapter Three . Blow it up . Get the focus back on this broadNatasha .
HENRY: Yes . I was thinking the same thing .
HANNAH: Make it clear that Natasha wants to e closer
COLETTE: Who wants coffee ?
WILLIAM: Lend me ten bucks ? I 'm having cash flow issues .
HENRY: Sure .
WILLIAM: Thanks , bro ' . You 're the best .
HANNAH: What do you think ? On or off ? Do they make me look smarter ? I need a new pair .
WILLIAM: What do you want to know about me ? I 'm 27 . Single . A virgin . He flashes that wicked , seductive smile .
HANNAH: I 've always had this knack for telling stories . Ever since I was a kid .
MAUREEN: She 's a natural .
HANNAH: Moved here . Took a couple writing classes . Decided to go for it . 24/7 . Total dedication to my craft . The writing always comes first . My latest effort is called Sleeping on the Moon . It 's about rejection . And pain . Not really about the moon itself . More of a
MAUREEN: Metaphor .
HANNAH: Right .
WILLIAM: So . LA ? I 'm here because of Bukowski . Charles Bukowski . Greatest write ever . Period . INSERT ARCHIVAL PHOTOS of Charles Bukowski .
HANNAH: My favorite writer ? Favorite writer . Favorite writer
MAUREEN: Jane Austen .
HANNAH: That 's the one . I hear she 's good . But my favorite writer ? Let me think about that a bit , OK ?
JOHN: Everything John K. Butzin knows about writing comes down to two simple words Tom Clancy . Yes , sir . Tom Clancy . The man 's a genius . Does his research . All those nitty-gritty technical details . Now that 's writing ! John K. Butzin has one agent very interested in Roaring Lion . And a publisher up in Oxnard is looking at it as we speak . Plus a certain cousin 's best friend has a neighbo who has an in with Clint Eastwood , so Hollywood might be calling soon . Do n't know how the other members of the writing group will handle all this success by one person . They etter not be pussies .
ALAN: Well , I 'm an optometrist in Glendale .
COLETTE: And I write full-time .
ALAN: Our last name 's Mooney . You could call us Mooneys . We get that joke all the time . The couple giggle at the joke . Forced .
COLETTE: Alan likes to tease .
ALAN: Colette , here , is the real writer . I 'm more of an idea guy . I come up with great ideas , but do n't always follow through . I 'll show you .
COLETTE: This is where I come for inspiration . I believe a writer must have quiet and solitude . I 'll meditate . Write in my journal . Set out my creative path for the day . This is my Walden Pond .
HENRY: Tonight 's the night . I 'm going to ask Hannah out . Henry becomes lost in thought . Regroups .
ALAN: I 'm the group leader . After all , getting together was my idea . They 're all my patients . That 's how we met . First one published gets a free eye exam .
JOHN: How come we never chow down at you place ?
WILLIAM: This is my place . Close to the working people . John rolls his eyes .
HENRY: Where 's Hannah ? Anyone know ? Nobody responds . Alan checks his watch .
ALAN: Time to get started .
HENRY: Should n't we wait for Hannah ?
WILLIAM: Let 's go , people . I 'm ready to read .
ALAN: William 's right . We 'll start . She 'll show up .
COLETTE: William , are n't these the same pages you read last time ?
WILLIAM: Nope , they 're different .
JOHN: They look the same .
WILLIAM: They 're different . I changed a word .
HENRY: One word ?
COLETTE: That 's it ?
WILLIAM: Writing is rewriting , Colette . Bukowski said , `` Write five words . Rewrite seven . ''
HENRY: No . Dorothy Parker said that .
JOHN: One word ? Jesus H. Christ .
WILLIAM: It 's my creative vision , John .
ALAN: Which we are here to support . This is William 's decision .
WILLIAM: Let me just read . See if you can pick out the word . Tell me if it 's etter , or worse .
JOHN: One goddamn word . Henry continues staring at the empty chair .
HENRY: I wonder what happened to Hannah .
ALAN: It 's not like her to miss .
HANNAH: I 'm so sorry . I 'm so sorry for missing the meeting .
JOHN: What happened ? Your car break down ?
ALAN: You oversleep ?
COLETTE: Maureen . Is Maureen OK ?
WILLIAM: People . C'mon . Look at her . That glow . Hannah met a guy . She got laid .
HANNAH: As a matter of fact , I did meet a guy .
WILLIAM: Told ya .
HANNAH: His name 's Brian .
WILLIAM: Bet Brian wants more than that .
COLETTE: That 's so great , Hannah .
JOHN: I salute you , young lady . And he does .
ALAN: Yes . Fantastic . Fanntasstic .
HANNAH: Thank you . But I just want to remind everyone that we 're all in this together . I could n't have come this far without the group .
ALAN: All for one . . . .
HANNAH: I 'm merely the first one to get signed . But we 're all going to have an agent soon .
JOHN: Well , as a matter of fact , there 's an agent in Santa Monica very interested in John K. Butzin . He 's eading the manuscript as we speak .
WILLIAM: Hey , can you lend me ten bucks ?
HENRY: Sure .
WILLIAM: Thanks , bro ' . You 're the best . Henry 's eyes ca n't leave Hannah .
ALAN: Congratulations again , Hannah !
COLETTE: Yes , yes . Way to go , Hannah !
HANNAH: Thank you ! 'Night .
ALAN: Well , Hannah 's got an agent . Short beat .
COLETTE: She must have slept with him .
ALAN: Of course she did .
HENRY: I 'm so proud of you , Hannah .
HANNAH: Your turn will come , Henry . You 're a etter writer than I am . So much etter . You went to college .
HENRY: Listen . Maybe some afternoon we could go for a drive . There are some special places I 'd like to show you .
HANNAH: Sure . I ca n't believe I 've lived out here four years and have n't seen
HENRY: What ?
HANNAH: Four years . It 's been four years since I moved here . And now I have an agent . It 's the number four again . My lucky number . I should have known this was going to happen .
HENRY: There is no one more deserving .
HANNAH: I 'm going to dedicate my novel to you .
HENRY: I 'm happy for Hannah .
COLETTE: My novel is called Nyet , Not Yet . It 's about a Russian woman who comes to this country in search of love . It was inspired by a story I heard from one of my massage clients , Yuri . Yes , it 's trueI used to do massage . In fact , that 's how I met Alan , though I certainly did n't give him the kind of massage he really wanted . At least not the first time .
HANNAH: Have I thought of my favorite autho yet ? No . Not yet . There are so many , you know ?
COLETTE: HiHiHello everyone . I was just in the neighborhood and Colette freezes when she notices the camera .
HANNAH: Colette . What a lovely surprise !
COLETTE: Oh . It 's nothing . I just had to say `` Congratulations '' to my new favorite author .
MAUREEN: `` For PoodlesNow may we have sex again ? Love , Alan . ''
HANNAH: So sweet of you , Colette .
COLETTE: My pleasure . Say , Hannahabout your agent ? Hannah looks over at Colette What ?
HANNAH: Gee . I do n't really know . Colette blurts out without thinking .
COLETTE: Think you could ask ?
HANNAH: I guess so . Maybe .
COLETTE: Because if he is
HANNAH: Let 's talk about this at group meeting , OK ?
COLETTE: Oh . Of course . Of course . Absolutely .
MAUREEN: Colette Mooney . My , that woman is something else . A light goes off in Hannah 's head .
HANNAH: Colette Mooney . C-o-l-e-t-t-e M-o-o- n-e
ALAN: No problemo . Let 's get you some new eye wear .
HANNAH: Something that makes me look smart .
HENRY: You 're already smart , Hannah .
ALAN: How about Hannah shrugs her blase reaction .
HANNAH: Mmmmmmm .
ALAN: Excuse me . One sec .
HANNAH: Of course he would .
ALAN: You know this great idea for a novel hit me this morning . It 's called Unleashed .
HANNAH: Could be a winner .
HENRY: You look great , Hannah .
ALAN: Question You think your agent might e interested in this idea ? Does he have a dog ?
HANNAH: Oh . I do n't know
ALAN: How about a cat ? It could be a cat .
HANNAH: Um . Sure . Probably could be .
ALAN: Think about mentioning it to you agent , OK ? Unleashed . Dog or cat ecomes human .
HENRY: I 'll help you develop the idea , Alan . Alan looks pleased . Hannah looks grateful .
JOHN: Meet someone very s-p-e-c-i-e-l . Here with us today all the way from Coaxing Sigrid to finish the thought .
SIGRID: Germany .
JOHN: Oh ! That accent ! Found her working at the hardware store . Went in for a drill bit . Came out with a prime candidate for Mrs. John K. Butzin .
SIGRID: Apologies . American only . I come from Dusseldorf , yes ? Came to this great country 90 years ago no , 90 days ago . Apologies . Took job in store as cleaning lady . Promoted to cashier . Now assistant , assistant manager .
COLETTE: I know this is a rejection letter . I ca n't open this . I ca n't be ejected today . I take rejection so personally .
ALAN: I bet it 's good news .
COLETTE: `` Sorry . Not interested . '' I knew it . How can such a big rejection come from such a small piece of paper ?
HANNAH: Hello ? Yes . Oh , hi , Brian . Really ? Oh my god ! Oh my god ! Oh my god !
MAUREEN: What 's he saying ?
HANNAH: He sold my novel .
HENRY: What ?
HANNAH: Brian sold Sleeping on the Moon !
MAUREEN: Oh my god ! Oh my god !
HANNAH: Yes , Brian . I will . Thank you . Thank you . Thank you . I will . Promise . Thank you !
HENRY: You did it , Hannah ! You did it !
MAUREEN: I 'm so proud of you , dear !
HANNAH: Thank you .
HENRY: We need to tell the group ! The smile disappears from Hannah 's face .
HANNAH: The group . Oh , dear . The group . No , no , I ca n't tell them about this .
HENRY: Why not ?
HANNAH: Oh . She looks to Maureen for support .
HENRY: Suppose I tell them ? They could hea the news from me .
HANNAH: Thank you , my friend . I can always depend on you , ca n't I ?
JOHN: That 's great for Hannah , her little ook deal , and all . But John K. Butzin has some news to announce , as well . John holds up a BROCHURE .
WILLIAM: Hannah 's just lucky . That 's all .
HENRY: Here she comes ! Henry opens the door . Hannah floats in .
HANNAH: Ohhhhhh . For me ? You should n't have .
WILLIAM: Way to go , Ms . Published Author !
ALAN: We 're all jealous , Hannah . Just teasing .
COLETTE: No . Seriously . We 're all jealous . Nervous laughter around the room .
HANNAH: You 're all making too much of a spectacle here .
HENRY: When will your book come out , Hannah ?
HANNAH: A year . Takes about a year .
WILLIAM: So how much did you get ?
ALAN: Do n't ask her that .
WILLIAM: Why not ? How much did you get ?
HANNAH: I did OK. Leave it at that . What 's important is that I owe this success to all of you . I would be lost without this writing group .
JOHN: I do n't know if anyone heard . All eyes turn to John , still inhaling pizza .
ALAN: U.R . the Publisher ?
HENRY: They self-publish . E-books . Print on Demand .
JOHN: That 's right , Obert . But I 'll have my book in two weeks . None of this B.S . waiting around . John K. Butzin will be a published author . And be published first .
HANNAH: Well , John . Congratulations .
ALAN: My , two published authors in the group . The rest of us are going to have to catch up .
JOHN: Gunner stared out over the bleak horizon , seeing one dead Viet Cong after another lay scattered on the loody hillside . He had won this time , but Gunner knew Charlie would e back in the morning . By god , he would be ready . So would his M60 General Purpose Machine Gun and Mark 2 Fragmentation/Hand Rifle Grenade .
ALAN: OK , John . Nicely done . Let 's get some feedback . Henry , as always , has been making notes .
HENRY: Well . In terms of the characters
JOHN: Hold on , Obert . I wan na hear from her . John points towards Hannah .
ALAN: We 'll hear from everybody .
JOHN: I do n't want to hear from everybody . She has a book coming out . John K. Butzin has a book coming out . I want to hear from Hannah , author to author .
WILLIAM: Oh , screw you .
ALAN: This is really going against the spirit of the group , John . Everyone 's opinion is valid .
JOHN: Hers is more valid . What 'd you think , Hannah ? Tell me .
HANNAH: I-I . . .
WILLIAM: Going outside for a smoke .
COLETTE: I 'll go talk to him . Colette follows , calling after William .
ALAN: Let 's take a fifteen minute break , shall we ?
COLETTE: I want you to meet someone special . This is my spiritual adviser . Docto Xiroman has taken a vow of silence for one full year to protest climate change . What an amazing man . Dr. Xiroman is going to cleanse the ai of all this rejection .
WILLIAM: See those jokers back there ?
HENRY: `` such as I have never found in any other person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again ''
ALAN: There 's been one rule in this house . Whatever Colette wants , Colette gets .
COLETTE: Thank you , Alan .
ALAN: She wants a Mercedes ? No problem . Credit cards ? How many ? Her own usiness ? Done . An agent ? Colette eats it up .
COLETTE: Very well-known . He 's so known .
ALAN: Exactly . Well , guess who is coming in tomorrow to see Dr. Alan Mooney for an eye examination and new glasses ?
COLETTE: I love you , Poodles .
ALAN: Love you more , Poodles .
DAVID: Let me call you back . David stands up .
ALAN: I know . Big fan . Big fan . David ca n't help but notice the camera .
DAVID: Really ?
ALAN: Just act natural . Lowering his voice .
ALAN: Very good , David . Would you like to try for what 's behind Door Numbe Three ? Try this one , please .
ALAN: 20/25 . Looking good , David . But anyone can identify simple letters and numbers . Let 's see how you do eading a more challenging text .
DAVID: Yes .
ALAN: Good . Read me the first paragraph , please .
DAVID: Natasha , the Russian peasant , dressed oh-so-slowly , consumed totally , completely , absolutely , by endless thoughts of Yuri .
ALAN: Oh . Very nice . Very nice . Now the next paragraph , please . David looks rather puzzled , but complies .
DAVID: `` I never , ever thought I could feel this way , '' Natasha said excitedly . `` Nor could I , '' Yuri said happily , his body dripping with enormous beads of sweat .
ALAN: Man . Wow . Gee . Is n't that great writing ? My wife Colette wrote that . The patients just love reading he stuff . It 's from her new novel , Nyet , Not Yet .
COLETTE: Hi , honey . So sorry to intrude .
ALAN: Colette ? Gee , this is an incredible coincidence . We were just talking about you . And here you are !
COLETTE: Hello .
ALAN: Oh , where are my manners ? Colette , this is David Keller . David , this is my wife , Colette Mooney . The writer .
DAVID: Hi .
COLETTE: Pleasure to meet you , David .
ALAN: Actually , Colette wrote this beautiful prose you 've been reading , David . Honey , I ca n't believe this coincidence .
COLETTE: Well , I was just dropping off
ALAN: Oh , of course . Thanks for bringing it by . Say , honey , David 's been eading that first page of yours . You do n't happen to have any more of that opening chapter , do you ? Colette thinks for a second .
COLETTE: As a matter of fact , I think I do . I think I do .
ALAN: Say , how about that ?
DAVID: How about that ?
COLETTE: That went very well .
ALAN: Oh , yes , Poodles . Very .
COLETTE: Though David Keller did seem in a hurry to leave .
ALAN: The sooner he can begin reading . Colette buys that . Of course .
COLETTE: I bet he calls tomorrow with an offer .
ALAN: I bet he calls tonight .
HANNAH: Henry . This is good . So good .
HENRY: Really ? Hannah nods . Really .
HANNAH: I 'm dying to know more about Scott and Christy . What great characters .
HENRY: Yeah . Sure wish I knew what was going to happen with them .
HANNAH: You 'll figure it out , Henry . It 'll pass . Focus on your writing . No distractions . The writing comes first . Henry lets it sink in . Changes the subject .
HENRY: Say , um , remember I offered to drive you around and show you a couple special places ?
HANNAH: Who lives here ?
HENRY: Richard Benedict .
HANNAH: Oh . That writer you like ?
HENRY: Like ? No . It 's much more than that . Wow . HeHe Henry struggles to put it into words .
HANNAH: Ca n't say I 've read his stuff . Nice house , though .
HENRY: Here we are . Hannah stares blankly at the house .
HANNAH: Fitzgerald ? He 's the one who shot himself , right ?
HENRY: No . Fitzgerald . F. Scott Fitzgerald . He wrote The Great Gatsby . The name does n't register with Hannah .
HANNAH: I 've never read it . Henry ca n't hide his surprise .
HENRY: What ?
HANNAH: Could you turn that off for a few minutes , please ?
HENRY: You know they ca n't . What 's wrong ?
HANNAH: I 've never read The Great Gatsby .
HENRY: You 're kidding .
HANNAH: Henry . I never went to college . I 've heard of Hemingway . A little . Fitzgerald . Somewhere . But I do n't have your education . Your smarts . I have n't read all these great novels . My stories come from my heart .
HENRY: Gatsby is about social position and the American Dream and . . . Henry stops . Rethinks his explanation .
HANNAH: And it 's your favorite ? Henry nods with his heart .
HENRY: Here . Take my copy . He hands the well-read book to Hannah .
JOHN: Yes . I 'm still holding . Where are you again ? New Dehli ? Oh .
EUDORA: Great book . Classic . Henry nods in agreement . Eudora moves on .
HANNAH: Oh , I needed this break . Thank you , Henry .
HENRY: You 're welcome .
HANNAH: It 's just that I 'm starting to feel the pressure , you know ? There is so much riding on this first book .
HENRY: Do n't be silly . Sleeping on the Moon will hit the bestseller list . You 'll be the toast of the literary world . And I 'll come over to Beverly Hills and deliver a pizza to you .
HANNAH: Beverly Hills , ah
HENRY: Definitely .
HANNAH: What a dear , sweet friend you are .
ALAN: Alright . Whose turn is it to read ? Henry ?
HENRY: Oh . Um . Someone else go . I do n't have anything new ready tonight . Concerned looks all around .
COLETTE: It 's been weeks , Henry .
HENRY: I know . Still ca n't focus .
JOHN: Do n't be a pussy , Obert . Get writing . Complete the mission .
HANNAH: Writer 's block can be very serious , John .
WILLIAM: What 's so hard , bro ' ? I mean , you 've got Scott and Christy . Two friends . Tell their story .
HENRY: That 's the problem . I think the story 's changing .
ALAN: Changing ? How so ?
HENRY: Lately I 'm feeling something much deeper , much richer . Scott and Christy , um , growing closer . The other group members appear puzzled .
COLETTE: Christy 's a beautiful , wealthy autho in Beverly Hills . How close can they get ?
HENRY: Follow me . Something happens . Christy has an epiphany . She-She ealizes her feelings run much deepe now for Scott .
WILLIAM: Nah . Do n't buy it .
JOHN: They 're friends . Why muck it up ? Do n't put 'em in the same foxhole .
COLETTE: Is this Scott wanting to go beyond the friendship ? There 's no way Christy would suggest it . What do you think , Hannah ?
ALAN: Yes . Hannah , what do you think ?
HANNAH: Gee , I-I guessI really neve thought of them that way .
HENRY: Never ?
HANNAH: No . It 's always been a friendship . Henry takes a moment . Thinking .
HENRY: You do n't see anything possibly happening between them ?
HANNAH: No . Friends . Nothing more .
WILLIAM: Exactly .
HANNAH: I 'd be uncomfortable with any changes in the relationship .
HENRY: OK . Thanks , everyone . I 'll try to have something on paper next time .
JOHN: Remember , Obert . Complete the mission .
WILLIAM: Got a sec ?
HANNAH: How much ?
WILLIAM: Hey , I just figured , you know . You got that big advance . Help out a fellow writer . I 'm good for it , Hannah .
HANNAH: Sorry . It 's bad luck to loan money .
WILLIAM: OK , then , just give it to me .
COLETTE: How much do you need ? William looks surprised .
JOHN: This is a big moment . Roaring Lion has been posted on Amazon.com . Now all books . Your fiction . You nonfiction . They 're ranked on Amazon y sales . Obviously everyone wants to be number one . They say a book is selling well on Amazon if it 's in the top 5000 . Time to run it up the flag pole . Sigrid ?
HANNAH: How am I doing ? OK . Sort of . Brian called . Looks like there 's real interest in movie rights for Sleeping on the Moon . Yeah , thanks .
MAUREEN: Conundrum .
HANNAH: That 's it . I 'm in one .
ALAN: OK . Comments . Anyone ?
HANNAH: I value your feedback . We 're all in this together , right ? Nobody bites .
COLETTE: OhGeeHannah . What ? I mean , you 're being published . This is eing published .
HANNAH: But my editor wants rewrites . Am I on track ?
ALAN: Of course you are , Hannah .
WILLIAM: You got the deal . You got the check . First one to be published .
ALAN: I think what I 'm hearing from the group isisyou 're fine . We all love it . Nothing here to critique . You do n't need uswell , it 's not that you do n't need us , but , you know
HANNAH: What do you think , Henry ? All eyes on Henry . He hesitates . Then
HENRY: Yes . Actually , it is really good , ut there are a couple thingslittle thingsI 'd point out . For example
JOHN: Holy Douglas MacArthur
ALAN: Idea for novel . Perhaps screenplay . The Amazing Doctor Eckleburg . An eye doctor turned crime fighter . Ladies man .
WILLIAM: Hey . Alan .
HENRY: Hannah 's avoiding me . She does n't espond to emails or voice messages . She 's `` busy . '' Always an excuse .
COLETTE: Yes . You noticed . I replaced the photo . I may be replacing othe things around here soonI was just using Williamfor research . She holds up THREE MORE LETTERS .
JOHN: This is going to be a great day fo John K. Butzin . Yes , sir . First official book signing .
SIGRID: More than a few books . Many , many ooks , Ja ?
JOHN: Ja , my Strudel . Many books .
SIGRID: Attention shoppers . Famous author , Mr. John K. Bootzin , signing new est seller . Up front of store . John K. Bootzin . Also , special today in plumbing department . Ballcocks . Two for one . All customers guaranteed will be satisfied . Ja .
JOHN: Sorry , Strudel . Seem to be shooting lanks today .
ALAN: Author ! Author ! John stands up . Clearly touched .
JOHN: Hey-Hey . The cavalry 's arrived . Look who 's here .
SIGRID: Hello , everyone !
HANNAH: Would n't miss your signing , John .
COLETTE: Smile , John !
HENRY: Congratulations , John .
JOHN: Thanks , Obert . Where 's the Bukowski wannabe ?
HANNAH: William said he 'd meet us here .
JOHN: What a turd . Never liked that punk anyway .
ALAN: Maybe he 's still at our house .
COLETTE: Maybe he is . Maybe I should go see .
ALAN: Maybe you should .
HENRY: This is in Chinese .
SIGRID: International edition ! John nods convincingly in agreement .
ALL: Oh
JOHN: Know what the hardware store manage said ? He said today was their most successful book signing . Ever .
SIGRID: Ja
JOHN: Ten books . But there are now at least ten homes in California where folks have books by Melville . Hemingway . Clancy . And now Butzin . It 's a humbling thought .
ALAN: I 've made an important decision as group leader . I 've decided to ask William to leave the group . Now it has absolutely nothing to do with that incident at our house . It has nothing to do with the fact that I 'm now sleeping in the guest room . But let 's face itthe kid 's a slacker . No contribution to the group . Zero . Zip . Nada . I 'm sure he 'll be fine with it .
WILLIAM: Fine . I was going to quit anyway . Leave this bunch of losers .
ALAN: Just ignore him . William continues on his rant with Colette .
WILLIAM: Colette , Colette , my pet . News Flash for you Oprah 's not callingunless she needs a massage . Get real !
JOHN: Oprah ? She 's not on TV anymore .
COLETTE: I know that . William turns his attention to Henry .
WILLIAM: The great Henry O . Man , you got the gift , bro ' . But your head is up your ass over poor , sweet , successful Hannah here .
HENRY: That 's enough .
WILLIAM: I do n't need any of you . I do n't need any of your pointless , pedestrian feedback . I 'm a writer .
JOHN: You 've got goddamn three pages .
WILLIAM: They 're a great three pages ! You just do n't appreciate my dedication .
HANNAH: You 're a pretend writer , William .
HENRY: She 's right . You act the part . You like the lifestyle . You hit on women . You quote Bukowski . But Bukowski did the work . Each and every day he wrote . That 's your problem , William . You do n't do the work .
WILLIAM: I do n't do the work ? Man , that sounds frickin ' hilarious coming from you . When 's the last time you wrote anything ?
ALAN: Not the sign !
HENRY: Mr. Benedict , I just want to thank you . No . You 've inspired my writing No . Hi . I 'm Henry . I just think you 're the greatest
COLETTE: Let me tell you something , Henry .
JOHN: Nope . Not going to see Richard whatever-his-name-is . John K. Butzin , author , does n't need to stand in line anymore . No , sir . This soon- to-be best-selling writer is spending every minute , every dollar , on promoting Roaring Lion .
JOHN: Wow . Look how far I 've moved up already . Sigrid types again . Reads off the screen .
SIGRID: John Grisham . 12 .
ALAN: He 's older than I thought .
HANNAH: I 've never seen him before .
HENRY: Pleasure to meet you . No . Honor to meet you . He She They is my favorite novel .
CLERK: Next , please .
RICHARD: What ? !
CLERK: Sir ? No response . Alan nudges Henry . No good .
RICHARD: Absolutely not ! I 'll sue that bastard first
ALAN: We need to move , Henry .
COLETTE: Hi there .
RICHARD: Damn it ! That simply wo n't
HANNAH: Hello . Richard hangs up the phone .
HENRY: So what did he say ?
HANNAH: Who ?
HENRY: Who ! ? ! ? Richard Benedict . You know , the guy who just held up the line for five minutes talking to you ?
ALAN: Ten . It was closer to ten minutes .
HANNAH: I do n't know . We just talked .
HENRY: He sure liked you .
HANNAH: We just talked , Henry . I mentioned my book . He started asking about it . Writer to writer . No big deal .
HENRY: No big deal ? Talking to Richard Benedict . No big deal !
ALAN: You gave him your phone number .
HANNAH: Look , a guy like that reads more ooks in a week than I ever have . Why would he bother call
COLETTE: Unbelievable .
HANNAH: Coffee ? Oh , God . I do n't know , Richard . I really appreciate the invitation , but
ALAN: Amazing .
COLETTE: This is n't fair . This just is n't fair .
HANNAH: What ?
COLETTE: First , you get an agent . Then you sell your book . Then the big movie deal .
ALAN: Please do n't .
COLETTE: No . This is n't fair . And now Richard Benedict wants to have coffee with you ? All this is happening to you . And only you . Is n't there anything I do n't knowsome kind of cosmic creative crumb for the rest of us to nibble on ?
HANNAH: I do n't like what you 're suggesting , Colette . You know how hard I work . How devoted I am . And I have been totally supportive of your writing . I 've encouraged you all along .
COLETTE: You would n't introduce me to you agent .
HANNAH: Brian did n't want to meet you . I asked .
ALAN: Hannah has earned her success .
COLETTE: Butt out Mr . Idea Man .
ALAN: Hannah is a writer . She devotes herself one hundred percent to writing . Not one hundred percent to sleeping with writers . Henry steps in . Finally .
HENRY: Why do n't you two just go on ahead ?
COLETTE: It 's not fair that she be the only one .
HENRY: Go .
ALAN: C'mon . Let 's go .
COLETTE: 13 ! 13 ! 13 ! 13 !
HANNAH: Your writer 's block ?
HENRY: Yeah .
HANNAH: It 's because your focus is always on everything else . Gatsby . Fitzgerald . Me . Whoa . Henry is n't about to argue .
JOHN: Wow ! All the books sold at the hardware store ?
SIGRID: Ja . Every one .
JOHN: Did n't I tell you , Strudel ? Write it and they will read .
SIGRID: Bye . Bye .
COLETTE: I have to see Ms. Piper . We just need five minutes . 1-2-3-4-5 minutes of her time . The assistant points back to the sign .
LOIS: Dr. Xiroman . I ca n't believe you 're here . How lovely to see you again . Dr. Xiroman nods his head in greeting .
COLETTE: What ?
LOIS: Of course . Dr. Xiroman , you should write a book . This could be a whole series .
COLETTE: But
LOIS: It 's perfect ! Television . You own blog . Personal appearances .
COLETTE: But
LOIS: Getting from Xiro to One by Docto Xiroman . Oh , I like that .
COLETTE: But
LOIS: In fact , as long as you 're here today , why do n't we just get you under contract ? I know just who to call in New York .
COLETTE: ButBut . What about me ?
HENRY: Shit !
RICHARD: You 're late , Pizza Boy . Richard finally notices the camera .
HENRY: They 're with me . Your total comes to nineteen dollars and sixty-five cents .
RICHARD: Babe , I need a single . No response .
WOMAN'S VOICE: Coming !
HANNAH: Here you
HENRY: No distractions . The writing comes first .
HANNAH: He 's making me a better writer .
HENRY: Yeah . I bet he is .
HANNAH: Henry . Do n't .
HENRY: No , No . This could be quite educational . How about Native Son ? Catch-22 ?
HANNAH: Why is n't it enough that I 'm you friend ?
HENRY: Lord of the Flies ? Portnoy 's Complaint ? Do you know any author ? Harry PotterYou must know Harry Potter .
HANNAH: Why is n't it enough that I believe in your writing ?
HENRY: Sophie 's Choice ? Anything published in the English language .
HANNAH: That I believe in you ?
HENRY: You did n't read Gatsby , did you ? Never even opened it , I bet .
HANNAH: I 'm not She hesitates . Not for long .
JOHN: Well , Strudel shipped out . A side glance to the empty chair .
HENRY: Sorry I 'm late .
JOHN: Wutch you got here , Obert ?
HENRY: New pages . I 'm ready to read .
ALAN: Way to go , Henry .
JOHN: Christ . What 's he doing here ?
COLETTE: I 've invited Doctor Xiroman to join our writing group .
ALAN: You must be joking , Colette .
COLETTE: I am not joking . And , as a matte of fact , I 'll have all of you know that the doctor and I are soon to be published authors . We 've signed with The Lois Piper Agency .
HENRY: You ca n't do this .
COLETTE: Why not ? With William gone , we have an opening .
ALAN: Henry 's right . We all have to agree on new members .
COLETTE: I do n't care about your silly rules .
ALAN: I am the leader of the group
COLETTE: Oh , please . Alan .
ALAN: I am the leader of the group .
COLETTE: And Dr. Xiroman is my co-author and he is joining `` the group . ''
ALAN: He is not .
COLETTE: He is .
ALAN: Is not .
COLETTE: Is .
ALAN: Is n
COLETTE: Well , in this case one plus one equals one very successful writing team . I ca n't believe you , Hannah . You 're doing this just to upstage our news about landing an agent .
ALAN: Stop it
COLETTE: No , this is what it 's all about . The spotlight always has to be on Little Miss Sunshine . Her agent . He ook deal . Her movie deal . John shoots to his feet .
JOHN: News flash for you all . John K. Butzin is also saying Sayonara . Heading off on my international book tour .
HENRY: International ?
JOHN: Damn straight . Tijuana . I 'm done with you pussies .
ALAN: Get out . Now . Colette ca n't believe what she 's hearing .
COLETTE: You ca n't kick me out . I live here . She 's right . Alan considers his options .
ALAN: Fine . Then go to your room . Points to Xiroman .
COLETTE: We 'll certainly have plenty to discuss in therapy .
ALAN: Go by yourself . I 'm done .
COLETTE: Oh . Just like alwaysAlan finishes first . She grabs Dr. Xiroman 's arm .
ALAN: Idea for novel .
HANNAH: Henry . . . Do n't waste your breath . He 's gone .
HENRY: Hi , Hannah .
HANNAH: Henry . Ohhhhh . Thank you . Thank you . Thank you so much for coming .
HENRY: Well , pretty hard to miss that article about you in People magazine . Just wanted to say hi . And congratulations .
MAUREEN: Hello , Henry . Hannah , come back . Your public awaits .
HENRY: Go on . They need you .
HANNAH: Please stay .
HENRY: Ca n't . Sorry .
HANNAH: Oh .
HENRY: Yeah . Hot date . You know . Ca n't keep her waiting . A flight attendant .
HANNAH: A flight attendant ? Henry nods .
HENRY: Sorry .
HANNAH: One sec . Wait here .
HENRY: Hannah . . .
HANNAH: Take it .
HENRY: No . No , thanks .
HANNAH: C'mon . It will take just a minute .
HENRY: I ca n't . Really .
MAUREEN: Dear , sweet Hannah . Please !
HANNAH: Just say hi .
HENRY: I 've really got to
HANNAH: Oh , c'mon . You 'll
HENRY: Well , I did it . I showed up to Hannah 's signing . I congratulated her . I supported her , writer to writer . And I finally got introduced to Richard Benedictformally . Sort of .
DAVID: This is why I love LA . True story . This guy delivers a pizza to my house one night . Then the very next week , my wife has someone come in and clean the carpets . Guess what ? Same guy . Small world , is n't it ? So we get talking . He tells me his name 's Henry . He 's a writer . He 's just finished a manuscript . Offers us a discount on the carpets if I 'll read ten pages . I like that thinking . So I read ten pages . Wow . I want to ead ten more . Before I know it , I 've read the entire book .
HENRY: Hannah was right . The writing must always come first . Everything else waits . Everything . That 's what I did finally . Finished my novel .
EUDORA: Gatsby believed in the green light , the orgiastic future that year by year recedes before us . It eluded us then , but that 's no matter
HENRY: Tomorrow we will run faster , stretch out our arms further Eudora nods . Henry is amazed .
EUDORA: Not intimately . He died here , you know .
HENRY: December 21 , 1940 .
EUDORA: I go by there sometimes .
HENRY: The place on Hayworth .
EUDORA: Is that weird . That I do that ?
HENRY: No . No . Not at all .
EUDORA: OK. Good . Because , you know , I do n't want people to think I 'm weird .
HENRY: Of course not . Do you write ?
EUDORA: Kinda , sort of . But I 'm thinking of joining a writing group .
CHILDREN: Trick or Treat !
JOHN: Look at this treat you get . A copy of Roaring Lion by John K. Butzin . Happy Halloween .
WILLIAM: C'mon . Admit it . You missed me . It was n't as interesting once I left , ight ? He winks . The Kid does n't move .
ALAN: OK. You 've got ten seconds . Write down the name of your character . First name that pops into mind . C'mon . Tell me your character .
HANNAH: Let 's see . My book ended up on the est sellers list . Stopping at Numbe
HENRY: You know Fitzgerald said that all good writing is swimming under wate and holding your breath . He was right . But after all I 've been through , I think I 'm finally ready to exhale . He looks at his watch .
EUDORA: Yes , I 'm totally busted . I 'm buying four copies of A Slice of LA . One for each member of my writing group . Also because I think Henry Wayne Obert is the greatest new writer of the decade ! Sexiest , too ! Eudora is having way too much fun .
WILLS: and I could have waited to tell you , but I wanted to leave no room for misunderstanding .
WOMAN: Well , you certainly did n't .
WILLS: Yes , I do . She is amused by his confidence
WOMAN: Oh , really ?
WILLS: The minute I laid eyes on you . It 's the saddest thing about getting older . You know people so quickly . I even knew you 'd end up hating me .
WOMAN: Well , you 're wrong . I do n't .
WILLS: Give it time .
CHARLOTTE: and for weeks I sat by her bed and cried . I told her I loved he and I begged her not to leave me . All I could think about was what I 'd lose if she died . And then one night she was in really bad pain I stopped thinking about myself fo a second and I thought about her . I stopped crying . I said goodbye . And in less than an hour Ella was gone . The woman whispers in Wills ' ear
WOMAN: It 's so sad .
CHARLOTTE: I really think it 's possible to hold a person back cry them back from dying . That 's what I did to Ella and I 'll never do it to anyone else again . I hope no one ever does it to me .
WOMAN: So what do you know about her ?
WILLS: That she 's just a kid .
OLD MAN: I met Ella at City College in 1938 Wills slowly turns and walks away .
CHARLOTTE: Shit .
RASPY VOICE: My ass hurts .
ALL: SURPRISE !
CHARLOTTE: See ? Surprises suck !
TANYA: Oh , Wills , please , not again . It 's our third date and we 're already in a rut .
WILLS: But I thought you loved it .
TANYA: Oh , I do except for the fact that there is n't a single thing on the menu I can eat .
WILLS: Sure , there is ; there 's just very little you 're willing to digest .
TANYA: Fine then . We 'll go , I 'll get big , fat , and horrible , and it 'll serve you right . Wills slips on a silk tie
WILLS: No , it wo n't . Because it takes at least a few weeks to get fat and by then you wo n't even be speaking to me .
TANYA: Why do you say that ?
WILLS: Because we have no future . All I can offer you is this what we have ight now nothing more meaningful until it ends .
JESUS: Good evening , Mr. Keane . Will you be dining with us tonight ?
WILLS: We certainly will . Table seven , Jesus , if it 's available .
JESUS: Yes , sir .
WILLS: How are you , Melissa ?
MELISSA: Fine , Mr. Keane .
WILLS: Good evening , Celia . And how
CELIA: Just dandy , sir , thanks !
JESUS: Table seven .
CELIA: This way , please .
WILLS: I 'll be right with you . Eriko nods and follows Celia .
JOHN: Chaos .
WILLS: The house specialty .
JOHN: Easy for you to say , ya prick . Waltzin ' in here like you own the joint .
WILLS: We wisely agreed to cut our losses .
CELIA: Look , I have no right to say this , okay ? And you can fire me if you want , but in the six weeks we 've een open you 've brought in six different women tonight makes seven and it 's really starting to get to me .
WILLS: In what way ?
CELIA: I have to greet them ! It 's like working at a dog shelter ! I 'm afraid to learn their names or even smile at them because I know any minute they could be put down !
WILLS: I assure you it 's an absolutely painless procedure .
CELIA: It is ?
WILLS: Sure . Especially for me .
CELIA: Seriously ?
WILLS: Seriously . I 've been trying to do etter . But you know how it is old habits die hard .
CELIA: So I 'm not fired ?
WILLS: Nope . In fact , John 's been looking for an assistant . Tell him you 've just been promoted .
CHARLOTTE: You guys ! Let me think ! Okay . Okay .
SIMON: Watch carefully , everyone they ought to begin emerging any moment now .
CHARLOTTE: Very funny ! Actually , any moment now you 're gon na turn straight and fall at my feet .
SIMON: Oh , darling , you know I would if I could .
SHANNON: The only time he falls at your feet now is when he wants to borrow you Prada loafers . More laughter .
WOMAN'S VOICE: Is that Wills Keane ?
WOMAN: It sure as hell is and he has n't changed a bit !
WILLS: I 'm sorry , do I
WOMAN: You little fool , it 's Dolores Talbot . Dolly ! His smile shows uneasy surprise
WILLS: My God , it is .
DOLLY: Yeah , I know , time 's kicked my ass ut good . Come on , Romeo , let 's bury the hatchet . Give me a hug . Careful of the cocktail .
WILLS: Actually , I doubled it .
DOLLY: Good for you !
SHANNON: and you know how bouncer 's get . He 's like , `` That 's the worst fake I.D . I 've ever seen . '' And I 'm like , `` Yeah ? Well , you have the worst dread- extensions ! '' And then just when
SIMON: Are you feeling all right ? You look positively green .
CHARLOTTE: He 's here . And he 's staring at me again .
SHANNON: No way !
CHARLOTTE: Do n't ! Wait a few seconds , then go to the athroom .
SIMON: How will I know him ?
CHARLOTTE: He 's beautiful . And much older .
SIMON: Really ? If he 's rich you might have a fight on your hands .
CHARLOTTE: Okay , look .
SHANNON: He 's as old as my dad ! Charlotte laughs .
DOLLY: Sure , L.A. 's okay if you 're a cactus or a lizard , but if you 're a New Englander , your soul dries up and lows away like a god damn leaf .
WILLS: It only took me twenty years to come to my senses .
DOLLY: So what 're you doin ' now ? You owned some restaurants out there , did n't you ?
SHANNON: And so , after all that , we pay ou cover , we get in , and it 's totally heinous ! Nothing but losers and
CHARLOTTE: Oh , shit .
SHANNON: What ? Dolores walks up , hauling Wills by the arm
DOLLY: Kids ! I want you to meet an old chum of mine , the owner of this fine establishment Wills Keane !
WILLS: Not Katie and Jay 's daughter ?
DOLLY: You bet . She got her height from he dad . But her talent 's all Katie 's .
WILLS: Impressive .
CHARLOTTE: Thanks .
WILLS: I think we can do better than that .
CHARLOTTE: Thanks .
SHANNON: Twenty years old and never been
CHARLOTTE: Shut up !
WILLS: I 'll let you get back to you celebration . A pleasure to see you again .
DOLLY: Same here .
SIMON: Leaving so soon ?
SHANNON: You 're not really into him , are you ?
CHARLOTTE: Hey , Dolly , how do you know him ?
DOLLY: From Newport . Old friend of you mom 's .
CHARLOTTE: Okay , bitch , I 'm ready !
WILLS: For what ?
CHARLOTTE: Oh my God , I 'm so sorry ! Wait . Who is this ?
WILLS: Wills Keane .
CHARLOTTE: My friend Simon , actually . He always calls me the morning after to sort of you know sum everything up .
WILLS: And how would you sum it up , Charlotte ? Turning twenty .
CHARLOTTE: Kinda cool , kinda creepy . Anyway , you wan na speak to my grandmother ?
WILLS: I do n't think so .
CHARLOTTE: Really ? Wow . Sounds fun . Okay .
WILLS: It 's a gift . I do n't have he measurements , but she 's about you size . What 're you , a six ?
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh .
WILLS: Good then let 's assume your hat size is also the same .
CHARLOTTE: But that does n't necessarily
WILLS: It 's a risk we 'll just have to take .
CHARLOTTE: Any particular style ?
WILLS: No , just plenty of it . How long will it take ?
CHARLOTTE: A week or two .
WILLS: You have till Thursday . I 'll need it here by seven o'clock . I 'm at the Pembroke on Central Park West and 76th .
CHARLOTTE: Oh . Wow . Okay .
WILLS: What 's your fee ?
CHARLOTTE: I do n't really have one . I usually just make them for friends .
WILLS: How 's five hundred dollars ?
CHARLOTTE: Really ? Wow .
WILLS: Charlotte ?
CHARLOTTE: Yeah ?
WILLS: You say `` wow '' a lot .
CHARLOTTE: I know .
WILLS: It has to stop . You 're a woman now .
CHARLOTTE: I know .
WILLS: Bye .
CHARLOTTE: Bye .
OLIVIA: See , now you got me worried .
WILLS: What do you mean ?
OLIVIA: You slept alone last night . You must e sick or somethin ' . You want me to call a doctor ?
WILLS: Thank you , no , I 'm fine .
JOHN: Save it , pal ! Do n't even bother ! I may not have gone to a fancy school like Bendover
WILLS: That would be Andover .
SARAH: Sure , if his folks could have afforded it .
JOHN: but when Wills Keane comps three ottles of Dom to a twenty-year-old girl , then tells me he did it 'cause he likes the kid 's grandma , I smell a rat !
SARAH: Oh , is that what that is ? I figured there was a dirty diaper somewhere .
WILLS: Okay , I admit it , she interests me .
JOHN: He 's gon na do it ! I do n't believe it ! He moved us back here for nothing !
SARAH: So much for that turned leaf .
WILLS: Come on , you 're overreacting .
JOHN: Is that what you think ? Buddy , since we hit town , I have done nothin ' but cut you slack ! Every week a new woman on your arm and I did n't say a word . Why ? 'Cause I figured at least they 're in the right demographic . Maybe by accident you 'll trip over something substantial . But this little girl ? Best she could be is Miss Right 's daughter !
WILLS: I know . It 's just that there 's something about her . She 's special and I just thought
SARAH: `` She 's young . She 's hot . I 'm on the verge of menopause . Why not go fo it ? '' Wills and Sarah meet eyes .
WILLS: There would n't be much point in lying to you , would there ? Sarah shakes her head .
KIDS' VOICES: Mommy , Daddy , look , look !
JOHN: Hey , they 're bigger than you are !
CHARLOTTE: Why do n't you mark what is n't important ? That way you 'll save ink .
SHANNON: Why do n't you sew your mouth to my utt ? That way you 'll stop annoying me .
DOLLY: Now , now , if you two kids ca n't play nice Shannon rolls over onto her back
SHANNON: God , I hate school .
CHARLOTTE: Oh , come on , just last week , you said you were on a roll . You loved it !
SHANNON: Well , now I 'm on the rag and I hate it .
CHARLOTTE: I think you 're incredibly lucky . I 'd love to be going to college .
SHANNON: Am I the most spoiled brat in the world or what ?
CHARLOTTE: Spoiled brats do n't even ask questions like that . What do you think ?
SHANNON: That you 're the most beautiful person in the entire world .
DRIVER: Mikey ! How ya doin ' ?
DOORMAN: A bit early , are n't you ?
DRIVER: Hey , in this soup , better safe than sorry , you know what I mean ?
CHARLOTTE: KEANE !
MICHAEL: He 's goin ' to a fancy party tonight .
CHARLOTTE: Oh , really ?
MICHAEL: Watch your step , Miss .
CHARLOTTE: Thank you .
OLIVIA: He 's waitin ' for you , Miss Fieldin ' .
WILLS: What happened ?
CHARLOTTE: I could n't get a cab , so I took the subway only it was an express and it did n't stop at
WILLS: You realize , do n't you , that you 're a full eighteen minutes late ?
CHARLOTTE: I know I 'm so sorry I
WILLS: Charlotte , relax . What 's the point of being a beautiful young woman if it is n't to keep your admirers waiting ? In fact , you disappoint me I was looking forward to at least another half hour of suspense . Flattered , her face brightens
CHARLOTTE: I could leave and come back .
WILLS: Nope , too late . Anyway , I want to see the hat .
CHARLOTTE: I ca n't . I 'm soaked .
WILLS: It 's all right .
CHARLOTTE: I wanted it to be a tiny poem . She smiles . Their eyes meet in the glass .
WILLS: If only I had some use for it . My date canceled a few hours ago .
CHARLOTTE: Why ?
WILLS: I do n't know . She was vague . Would you like to come in her place ?
CHARLOTTE: Like this ?
WILLS: The outfit I bought her is hanging in the guest room closet .
CHARLOTTE: It 's okay ? Are you sure ?
WILLS: Of course .
CHARLOTTE: From Ella . The woman whose memorial you crashed .
WILLS: So you did see me there .
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh . And the next time I saw you , you were on the cover of New York magazine . And I had to pick a place for my birthday . So
LISA: The C-list ?
CHARLOTTE: I met Ella in the fourth grade . She was my teacher at the Little Red School House . We stayed friends afte she retired . She taught me how to cook and sew speak Italian asically enjoy life , have fun that 's what she was best at even when she knew she was dying . The most important thing she did was introduce me to poetry . She believed it was the highest form of art and that everything we say and do should aspire to it .
WILLS: It sounds as though , in a way , she took your mom 's place
CHARLOTTE: My mom and my dad 's . After they died , Dolly was so devastated she pretty much gave up on everything . It was like if something that tragic could happen , there was no way she was ever gon na care about anyone else ever again . Including herself . She was n't a horrible parent she did n't abuse me or anything she just ignored me . She was more like a weird landlady than a grandmother .
WILLS: I 'm sure she did the best she could .
CHARLOTTE: For a long time I kinda thought that , too , and I made excuses for her , but now I do n't . I was seven years old and I needed her and she was n't there .
WILLS: I remember when I heard the news about your parents . You know how after a crash they print a long list of names in the newspaper ? Well , I grew up outside Boston , so I naturally started to scan the list . But casually , not expecting to
CHARLOTTE: Oh , no , come on ! I love this stuff ! Do n't you ? Did n't you grow up on it ?
WILLS: How old do you think I am ?
CHARLOTTE: Ancient !
WILLS: I have no idea what to do !
CHARLOTTE: Have fun !
LISA: I had to come . I work at the Met . What 's your excuse ?
CHARLOTTE: Sort of a date .
LISA: With Wills Keane , right ?
CHARLOTTE: You know him ?
LISA: Just by reputation .
CHARLOTTE: A major womanizer , right ?
LISA: That 's what they say . I 'm Lisa .
CHARLOTTE: Charlotte Fielding .
LISA: Anyway , I should keep mingling . But it was nice to meet you .
CHARLOTTE: Same here . Lisa smiles politely and walks away .
WILLS: Who was that ?
CHARLOTTE: Lisa something .
WILLS: Here 's to
CHARLOTTE: Us . Wills smiles slowly and they toast .
WILLS: That 's usually how I feel . But not tonight . Tonight I feel sixteen just sixteen and three-quarters .
CHARLOTTE: He asked nonchalantly .
WILLS: You see , Charlotte , the way you know you 're getting older is that you start to notice patterns . People start falling into types . Pretty soon you know a person before you 've even been introduced . And if it 's a woman , before the romance even starts , a whisper in your head tells you exactly what it is and how long it 's going to last . And the saddest , the most tedious , part of all is that that little voice is almost always ight . Now , what I like about you and I think that 's actually what inspired this little lecture is that I find you completely unprecedented and , therefore , wholly unpredictable .
CHARLOTTE: God , it must be a relief .
WILLS: What ?
CHARLOTTE: To finally deliver that speech to a woman and actually have it apply to her .
WILLS: Now wait a minute .
CHARLOTTE: No , because coincidentally I am all those things you just said . And more .
WILLS: Well , he 's a wise man . He hands her a glass of champagne .
CHARLOTTE: You , on the other hand , are what he 'd call a `` typical . ''
WILLS: Oh , really ?
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh . And I can prove it . Want me to ? Come here . Wills moves a few steps closer .
WILLS: Listen
CHARLOTTE: Uh-oh . Here it comes .
WILLS: That 's right , because , look , I could put this off , but I genuinely like you . So I want to be clear right now from the start , so there 's no chance for misunderstanding later .
CHARLOTTE: Okay .
WILLS: What I want to say you is . well that all I can offer you is this what we have right now nothing more substantial just this until it ends .
CHARLOTTE: I know . I 'm dying .
WILLS: What what do you mean ?
CHARLOTTE: What I said . Nobody thought I 'd even last this long .
SIBLEY: Mr. Keane ? Dr. Sibley .
WILLS: Thank you so much for taking the time .
SIBLEY: It 's my job , sir . Please , sit down .
WILLS: So then what treatment is she getting ?
SIBLEY: At present ? Nothing . Wills shifts uneasily in his chair .
WILLS: How long ?
SIBLEY: Optimistically ? A year .
CHARLOTTE: A real charmer , is n't he ?
DRIVER: Okay , pal , where to ? Wills has n't moved a muscle .
SHANNON: I do n't believe it ! I do n't believe it !
SIMON: I think what Miss Harris is trying to say , is that you 've strained he credulity .
CHARLOTTE: Really ? Better put some ice on that . Shannon lifts a hand to high-five her
SHANNON: Girlfriend , you are so incredibly cool !
SIMON: So I 've been told .
SHANNON: Okay , now tell us everything ! Do n't leave anything out ! FROM THE NEXT SCENE , we hear
JOHN'S VOICE: Okay , then what happened ?
WILLS: Not much . I took her home and she pointed out an irony that fate was now offering us the very same thing that just this morning I 'd told her was all I could offer her a relationship with no future .
JOHN: A kid figured that out ?
WILLS: She 's not a kid ! That 's what I 've een trying to tell you . Nothing 's lost on her . I 'm the kid . She I do n't know what the hell she is But I do know what she was .
JOHN: What ? The busboys turn their heads .
WILLS: I had no idea . That 's the only reason she had her party here , so she could lure me into doing the honors .
JOHN: She used you , pal .
WILLS: I know .
JOHN: The hangman got hanged . How 's it feel ?
WILLS: Embarrassing .
JOHN: So what now ?
WILLS: I end it .
JOHN: How come ?
WILLS: What , you 're endorsing this now ? John , continuing his work , smiles sweetly
JOHN: I do n't know , when you talk about her , you 're not such an arrogant son of a bitch . You get all whiny and stupid . I like that .
WILLS: Thanks .
JOHN: And since I do n't see you gettin ' serious with any of your othe victims , I figure why not spend a little time together ? Pause .
WILLS: Because she 's dying .
JOHN: I got bad news for you , brother , so are you . Wills stares at him thoughtfully .
DOLLY: Well , well .
WILLS: For you .
DOLLY: Well , are n't they loverly .
WILLS: No , thanks .
SIMON: It really is uncanny . I tell you , in that dress you 're the spitting image of Michel Simon .
CHARLOTTE: Who 's she ?
SIMON: A French character actor , long dead , who was not only hideous and fat , ut quite male .
CHARLOTTE: So that would be a `` no . '' Simon nods . Charlotte takes off the dress .
DOLLY: What can I say ? Time 's a thief . One day you 're rich as an Arab , the next you 're lucky if you can afford a god damn can of pistachio nuts .
WILLS: I know .
DOLLY: Who 'd have guessed what time had in store for her , huh ? Look at that smile .
WILLS: What do you mean ?
DOLLY: First time you came to pick up Katie , you brought me flowers . Just like those . Flower the mother ; then deflower the daughter . But Katie was too smart for you
WILLS: Dolly , look
DOLLY: Aw , why the hell do n't you leave he alone ? Christ , she 's sick !
CHARLOTTE: What ? What 's wrong ?
DOLLY: You look like your mom is all .
WILLS: What do you mean , you knew ?
CHARLOTTE: I did ! I just did n't think it would take so long !
WILLS: Two days is long ?
CHARLOTTE: It is when you 're sitting by the phone . You wan na know how I knew ?
WILLS: You 're psychic ?
CHARLOTTE: I am , but no it 's because of my irthday wish .
WILLS: But we had n't even been introduced yet .
CHARLOTTE: I know , but I wished that whateve happened you know , with my illness I 'd go out with a bang . Nothing heavy . No violins . No melodrama . Just fun . A total adventure ! Charlotte jumps off the curb .
WILLS: CAREFUL !
CHARLOTTE: Wow , it 's getting exciting already .
WILLS: We could go to a museum .
CHARLOTTE: No , that would be a thing ! I do n't want to do any thing today . I want to do no thing all day .
WILLS: Nothing at all ?
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh . No thing at all .
WILLS: So a movie is out .
CHARLOTTE: Way out !
WILLS: Ice cream at the Plaza ? High tea at the Palace ?
CHARLOTTE: Both out .
WILLS: What about shopping ? She considers for a few moments
CHARLOTTE: Possible .
WILLS: It 's not a thing ?
CHARLOTTE: Only when I have money .
WILLS: But all I gave you was champagne . That 's not a proper birthday present .
CHARLOTTE: I agree , and I promise I 'll let you give me something else , but not today .
WILLS: When ?
CHARLOTTE: Soon . But I 'm warning you , it 's not going to be anything material .
WILLS: Why not ? Oh , I see because you 're sick . Because
CHARLOTTE: That 's right , but we 're not gon na talk about that .
WILLS: How come ?
CHARLOTTE: Because it 's my rule .
WILLS: Any particular reason ?
CHARLOTTE: Yeah , because everybody always wants to talk about miracles , or about some genius quack-doctor , or thei friend 's friend who went into emission eating nothing but sunflowe seeds . It 's boring and pointless .
WILLS: Are you sure ? I mean , there are specialists who
CHARLOTTE: Do n't start , okay ? Now what I would enjoy is taking you shopping . For clothes . I 'm serious . It 's quality not quantity , you know .
WILLS: I think that goes without saying .
CHARLOTTE: It was true when that poem was written three hundred years ago and it 's true today . Would n't it be fun to look wanton occasionally ?
WILLS: It 's been a lifelong dream of mine . But will a scarf do it ?
CHARLOTTE: Totally . Accessories rule . But we have to be careful . I do n't want you looking too young . Nothing 's worse than an old guy trying to look young .
WILLS: Good advice . I 'll remember that fo when I get old .
CHARLOTTE: You know what I meant .
WILLS: That I 'm old .
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh .
WILLS: I do n't know why , but for some odd eason , I feel absolutely compelled to tell you the truth about this even at the risk of
CHARLOTTE: Hey , you 're giving me the creeps . Just spit it out .
WILLS: I never had a date for the benefit . My plan from the beginning was fo you to come with me .
CHARLOTTE: So I made the hat for myself ? And you bought that dress for me ? And you did all this just so you could sleep with me ? Why ? I mean , why me ?
WILLS: The eulogy you gave at Ella 's service was so impressive . You spoke about her death about loss in a way that I could never have done . You understood life emotionally in a way that I did n't . Whatever that understanding was , I wanted to get close to it .
CHARLOTTE: And sex seemed like the best way to do it .
WILLS: And the most enjoyable , yeah .
CHARLOTTE: Well , first of all , let me say , you have great taste because that little Dolce & Gabbana was to die for .
WILLS: Thanks .
CHARLOTTE: And , second , do n't ever lie to me again .
WILLS: All right .
CHARLOTTE: Seriously . There is n't a lie in the whole world I 'd rather hear than the truth .
WILLS: I got restless .
CHARLOTTE: Well , I hope you did n't talk to anybody !
WILLS: Not a soul .
CHARLOTTE: You know what would scare me right now ?
WILLS: What ? Charlotte moves slowly through the darkness .
CHARLOTTE: This .
WILLS: No .
CHARLOTTE: If it 's scary , do it .
WILLS: I 'm not sure I like that motto .
CHARLOTTE: I 'm not sure that matters .
WILLS: What ?
CHARLOTTE: You 're scared , too . From his expression , she knows she is right .
WILLS: That 's it !
CHARLOTTE: `` Counting the beats , Counting the slow heart beats , The bleeding to death of time In slow heart beats , Wakeful they lie . '' Wills , half-asleep , murmurs deeply
WILLS: So many words in that wonderful head of yours
CHARLOTTE: If I could give you anything in the whole world , that 's what it would e .
WILLS: Words ?
CHARLOTTE: Poetry . They lie in silence .
JOHN: Oh no , your boy made it ! At ten minutes before close ! All night I got a card announcing a halibut special , only I got no halibut ! Now it 's Sunday and I got three dozen cats lickin ' their chops in the alley ! Tony , I do n't wan na hear it ! I do n't wan na hear it ! I do n't wan na MAN ,
WILLS: Are you familiar with the phrase , `` You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar ? ''
JOHN: Are you familiar with the phrase , `` Mind your own god damn business ? ''
WILLS: Sure , it 's from Poor Richard 's Almanac . But the last time I checked
JOHN: No , your business is to smile , make friends , and get rich ! My business is the business .
WILLS: We ca n't spend every waking moment together .
JOHN: Why not ? No , seriously . Why not ?
CELIA: Special delivery ! She tosses him a paper bag ; he catches it .
WILLS: No trouble ?
CELIA: None .
JOHN: Every year . You got no imagination .
WILLS: It 's a classic . A little spirit gum and voila ! He holds the horns up to his forehead .
CELIA: It 's true . I see a guy with horns growing out of his head and my knees go weak .
WILLS: Of course it 's biological .
JOHN: What 's goin ' on ?
WILLS: What do you mean ?
JOHN: At home .
WILLS: Nothing . Honestly . We 're having a lot of fun . We 're very happy .
CHARLOTTE'S VOICE: Do n't come in ! Do n't !
WILLS: I 'm not even tempted !
CHARLOTTE'S VOICE: I 'll be right out ! Olivia enters with a steamy mug
OLIVIA: You like hot cider ?
WILLS: Sure , thanks .
OLIVIA: Charlotte made it . I just poured it in the cup .
CHARLOTTE: Ta-da !
WILLS: Incredible .
CHARLOTTE: Do n't I look just like her ?
WILLS: Absolutely incredible . Pause .
CHARLOTTE: You have no idea who I am .
WILLS: Give me a hint .
CHARLOTTE: `` Hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul . ''
WILLS: Was that the hint ?
CHARLOTTE: You dummy ! Emily Dickinson ! Only the greatest American female poet ever ! She hugs and kisses him
WILLS: The truth is out . I 've lost you forever .
CHARLOTTE: Wan na bet ?
JESUS: No , I think we make a great couple . A good witch and a bad hombre . That could make for some very interesting sex . Celia laughs .
JOHN: O , Ricky , chill out ! You 're gon na get snot in the water !
SARAH: Where 're the girls ? I thought you were tucking them in !
JOHN: We got a volunteer !
WOMAN: Guess who ? Wills feels her LONG GLOVES .
WILLS: Wonder Woman ?
WOMAN: No .
WILLS: Batgirl ?
WOMAN: I 'll give you a hint . You dumped me .
WILLS: Princess Di ? She laughs and playfully strangles him .
MOLLY: Just one more .
CARLA: Please ?
CHARLOTTE: All right , but this is the last last one !
CELIA: Sweet dreams ?
CHARLOTTE: I had no idea I was so tired .
SARAH: They 're down ?
CHARLOTTE: And out . Where 's Lucifer ?
JESUS: Last time I saw him , he was in the kitchen going pretty heavily with Holly Golightly .
CELIA: Hey , no gossip ! Holly 's a valued customer . Charlotte pretends to be fighting mad
CHARLOTTE: Lem me at 'er !
JESUS: Hell hath no fury like a recluse scorned . Charlotte laughs and heads to the kitchen .
CHARLOTTE: Hey , should n't one of your minions e doing that ?
JOHN: You know , in my day , you bobbed fo the apple , and , sure , maybe there was a nickel inside it and that was sweet but you ate the god damn apple ! These little animals grab the coin and they 're out the door !
CHARLOTTE: off to buy crack !
JOHN: Exactly my point . They share a laugh .
CHARLOTTE: Seen Beelzebub around ?
JOHN: The Prince of Darkness ?
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh .
JOHN: Yeah , he went upstairs . Charlotte is puzzled .
CHARLOTTE: Shit .
WILLS: Hey , looking for me ?
CHARLOTTE: Uh-huh .
WILLS: We were checking out the roof . John 's got quite a set-up . They arrive at the bottom of the stairs .
WENDY: Actually , I saw you at that memorial service in Connecticut . Your eulogy was beautiful .
CHARLOTTE: Thank you .
WENDY: Betsy Ross , right ?
CHARLOTTE: You guessed it . Wills smiles and rubs his hands together
WILLS: Is the party over ?
CHARLOTTE: No , I was just wondering if you had sex with that woman .
WILLS: Ever ?
CHARLOTTE: No , the answer to that 's pretty obvious . I meant tonight . On the oof . Wills breaks into a grin
WILLS: You 're not serious .
CHARLOTTE: That 's what I was wondering . I thought , `` We 're so happy he 'd have no reason to do it . And if he did do it , he 'd at least look guilty , would n't he ? But he does n't . He looks more relaxed than before the party started . ''
WILLS: Well , there you have it .
CHARLOTTE: But then I thought , `` He 's a womanizer that 's what they say . '' Funny word , huh ? Sounds like some sorta machine . `` And how do you get to be a womanizer ? Obviously by sleeping with lots of different women for no good reason and being really good at lying about it . ''
WILLS: Sure , except that
CHARLOTTE: Let me finish .
WILLS: Look , I never pretended to be anything other than
CHARLOTTE: You hate yourself so much !
WILLS: This was all a mistake . Right from the start . All of it . I 'm a grown man and you 're a child . Anyway , you have better things to do with your last With your time than spend it with me .
CHARLOTTE: What about you ? Do you have anything etter ?
DOLLY: Well , if it ai n't the Belle of Amherst .
CHARLOTTE: You have ?
DOLLY: And for the same god damn reason .
CHARLOTTE: But you said Wills and my Mom were just friends .
DOLLY: Sure , but she was nuts about him . The only reason she did n't sleep with him is 'cause she was sentimental . And smart . She wanted a ing first .
CHARLOTTE: Why did n't he give her one ?
DOLLY: 'Cause he knocked up little Millie Tyler instead . In Newport . At Bailey 's Beach . During the Labor Day clam ake .
CHARLOTTE: Why did he do that ?
DOLLY: Aw , who the hell knows ? 'Cause the moon was full . 'Cause life 's short . 'Cause he 's Wills Keane . I 'll tell you a little secret after that , your Mom hated his guts , but you dad never made her smile like he did . 'Course your dad never made her cry like that either .
CHARLOTTE: Why did n't you tell me any of this efore ?
DOLLY: Oh , I dunno
CHARLOTTE: You never talk to me ! You never try to help me !
DOLLY: Christ , look at me . I 'm gon na tell you what to do ?
CHARLOTTE: Yes ! You 're my family . You 're supposed to take care of me .
DOLLY: Aw , you would n't listen . That 's the thing about people they just do what they want from the day they 're orn till the day they die .
CHARLOTTE: No , that 's you , Dolly ! People who have given up do n't listen to othe people ! People who want to die close off ! That 's not me ! I wanted you help ! I wanted to learn ! Charlotte drops her head dejectedly .
DOLLY: Aw , come on , honey . I can throw a party and I can mix a gimlet . Afte that , what the fuck do I know ?
PATTY: Oh , Wills , it 's beautiful !
WILLS: Thank you . It was designed by a team from
PATTY: So functional ! Is that stainless steel ?
WILLS: Actually , no , it 's velvet . She furrows her brow , squints , then laughs .
PATTY: Oh , my God , it is !
WILLS: How are you ?
MELISSA: How are you , sir ?
PATTY: Well , if the food 's even half as good as the moldings I 'm in for a very special treat .
JESUS: Uhhh , good evening , Mr. Keane . Will you be dining with us ?
WILLS: Yes , Jesus . Table seven , if it 's available .
JESUS: Certainly , sir .
WILLS: Hello , Celia .
CELIA: How are you this evening , sir ?
WILLS: I 've been worse .
CELIA: Are you sure ?
JESUS: Table Seven .
NEW HOSTESS: This way , please .
WILLS: Order a drink . I 'll be right with you .
JOHN: Where the hell you been ?
WILLS: Splendid , how are you ?
JOHN: Where 's Charlotte ?
WILLS: Deliveries on time ?
JOHN: Who 's the broad ? She looks like a Holiday-Inn hooker from Ohio .
WILLS: Keep up the good work ! Wills walks away .
CHARLOTTE: Okay , I 'm chugging Scotch , gagging on smoke , and losing my hearing ! Now why is this so good for me again ? !
SIMON: That 's just it ! The great spiritual enefit in leaving one 's room is that it reminds one of how odious it is to leave one 's room !
SHANNON: Excuse me ! Excuse me ! Sorry ! Excuse me !
BOY'S VOICE: No problem ! She looks up and ca n't believe her eyes .
SIMON: There 's one thing you do n't know about Mr. Keane and his adultery and as painful as it is I feel that I should tell you !
CHARLOTTE: What ? What is it !
SIMON: That woman on the roof ? That was no ex-girlfriend ! In fact , no woman at all . It was I , Simon Loring , maste of disguise ! Willsy and I have moved in together !
SHANNON: Look what I found ! Charlotte ca n't believe it either
CHARLOTTE: Eric ! Wow !
ERIC: Hey , Char !
CHARLOTTE: God , long time no see ! One night we show up to rent Eraserhead and you 're just gone !
ERIC: Sorry about that !
SHANNON: It was such a drag ! You know , having to actually start paying to rent movies !
ERIC: I bet !
CHARLOTTE: What 's up ? Ralph said you moved to Rockland County !
ERIC: Yeah , I got a job working for my mom 's new boyfriend !
CHARLOTTE: What does he do ?
ERIC: He sells pot !
SHANNON: Cool !
ERIC: Not really . I was a driver ! I got laid off when he got busted . He 's awaiting trial !
CHARLOTTE: So what 're you doing now ?
ERIC: Same thing pretty much . Only fo Domino 's ! Charlotte laughs .
SHANNON: Whoa , I do n't believe it ! She has n't laughed in like a week !
PATTY: so everybody on the conference call starts introducing themselves . Ned Lewey , Paris Office . Takashi Matsuo , Tokyo Office . Whoever , the London Office . And then someone says , `` Will the architect from the New York office please identify himself . '' And I pipe up and say , `` Well , guys , I 'm not a him or an architect . I 'm Patty Strauss and I 'm head of East Coast marketing . '' And there 's like total silence . It was hysterical !
WILLS: I 'm sorry , would you excuse me ?
PATTY: Of course .
WILLS: Who is it ?
JOHN: Nobody !
WILLS: So ?
JOHN: So after the party , no thank you ! I call you three times no call back ! And for six days you do n't even eat at your own god damn restaurant ! What am I supposed to think ? Huh ? ! I was ready to call the morgue !
WILLS: Relax , I 'm alive .
JOHN: Well , you sure do n't look it !
WILLS: Look , it does n't matter that she 's sick she 's still a kid and there 's no way we should be together . It 's unhealthy it 's it 's inappropriate
JOHN: What the hell is that ? Some sorta shrink talk ?
WILLS: Look , if she were just fun just some sort of diversion maybe I could justify it . But the worst part is that it 's becoming more . Much more . It 's embarrassing how much I like her . She gets to me . She affects me
JOHN: Buddy , I hate to break it to you , ut in the real world where I live there 're only two kindsa love stories . Boy loses girl and girl loses boy . That 's all there is . Somebody always gets left behind . You try to avoid that , you 'll end up an old man toastin ' yourself with egg nog in the mirror on Christmas Eve . You 'll end up dying in your own arms .
PATTY: Thank you so much . I had such a great time .
WILLS: Good . I 'm I 'm glad .
PATTY: Did n't you ?
WILLS: Patty , I I want to be honest with you right now , from the start so there 's no room fo misunderstanding . I did n't have a good time , but it 's nothing personal . I just split up with someone and ather than admit to myself how much I miss her , I asked you out instead . And it 's unfair . If I feel sad I should just feel sad and not try to use you and your body as some sort of painkiller , right ? Anyway , I think you 're a warm and engaging woman and I wish you all the best .
MICHAEL: Mr. Keane
WILLS: Good night , Michael .
MICHAEL: You 've got a visitor . Wills stops and turns
WILLS: Who ?
MICHAEL: She 's been waitin ' almost an hour . In the lobby . A little surprise for ya .
LISA: Sorry to disappoint you .
WILLS: No , no . Not at all . You surprised me , that 's all . I did n't expect to see you not here not afte your letter .
LISA: Well , I did n't expect you to show up at my job .
WILLS: I followed you in . I was n't even sure it was you . All I have is an old snapshot .
LISA: My boss thought you were a stalker .
WILLS: I did n't mean to run off like that .
LISA: But you did . An awkward silence .
WILLS: I saved it .
LISA: I was just blowing off some steam , okay ? I think I have the right .
WILLS: So do I . Look , why do n't we go upstairs .
LISA: No . I did n't plan to come . Peter my husband he agrees . He thinks it 's a futile exercise . But it turns out I 'm pregnant . Just a few months , ut
WILLS: Lisa Congratulations . That 's wonderful .
LISA: Thanks . Anyway , I guess it made me want to meet you . I 've been a little sentimental about parent-hood .
WILLS: Is that what you consider me ?
LISA: In a lousy absentee sorta way , sure . Pause .
WILLS: How 's your mom ?
LISA: Great . Nuts . She moved to Costa Rica last summer .
WILLS: Why ?
LISA: A guy , what else ? He owns a charte airline and wears sunglasses indoors . I think he might be a gunrunner .
WILLS: Thanks . You 're not bad looking yourself .
LISA: Anyway I should go
WILLS: Already ?
LISA: I really just wanted to meet you and maybe I do n't know
WILLS: What is it ? Tell me . She sniffles and looks away
LISA: Nothing earth-shattering . Maybe just to hear you say you were sorry . Silence .
WILLS: I am . I 'm very sorry .
LISA: Okay . Thanks .
WILLS: Can I call you ?
LISA: Before when you came in who did you think I was ?
WILLS: A friend .
LISA: You must like her an awful lot .
CHARLOTTE: Hey .
WILLS: Where were you ? I was worried .
CHARLOTTE: So worried you fell asleep . What 're you doing here ?
WILLS: I 've missed you . You have no idea how much .
CHARLOTTE: How 'd you get in ?
WILLS: Dolly . We watched TV . She fell asleep . What time is it ?
CHARLOTTE: I did n't know I had a curfew .
WILLS: Where were you ?
CHARLOTTE: None of your business . So what is it ? What do you want ?
WILLS: To tell you that you were right . I do hate myself . But not so much that I ca n't see how stupid and despicable and
CHARLOTTE: Cowardly .
WILLS: And cowardly what I did was . And even though there 's no excuse fo it , I want you to forgive me .
CHARLOTTE: Why should I ?
WILLS: Because , for better or worse , I 'm falling in love with you , and the thought of our not being together is unbearable to me .
CHARLOTTE: Let 's sleep . She crawls into bed .
WILLS: So where were you ?
CHARLOTTE: With Shannon and Simon and Eric .
WILLS: Who 's Eric ?
CHARLOTTE: An old friend who used to work at Blockbuster .
WILLS: What 'd you guys do ?
CHARLOTTE: Talked and drank . Simon and Shannon finally went home . Eric and I hung out .
WILLS: Hung out where ?
CHARLOTTE: Stop . We 'll talk about it tomorrow .
WILLS: Fine .
CHARLOTTE: And I honestly think I have a right not to tell you .
WILLS: You 're being unreasonable .
CHARLOTTE: You 're being nosy .
WILLS: You know , in this day and age it 's not so outrageous a request . I mean , I do n't know this kid . I do n't know where he 's been .
CHARLOTTE: You 're worried about where he 's been ? Give me a break !
WILLS: It requires balance and I have lousy alance , okay ?
CHARLOTTE: Oh , come on , what 's the worst that can happen ? Well , I guess you could break a hip .
WILLS: Look , I 'm not in a sporting mood !
CHARLOTTE: How come ?
WILLS: I 'm jealous , okay ? ! Is that what you want to hear ? Are you satisfied now ? She burst out laughing
CHARLOTTE: Not even close !
WILLS: All I want is a simple answer and you 're torturing me ! And I resent it ! It 's cruel and juvenile ! And I
WILLS: I wish I were exaggerating , but I 'm not . I slept with every one of them . Really . Look through Dolly 's old photo albums or any movie magazine visit Aspen at Christmas . I was on a mission . And until recently I really did n't think I had a problem . Or if I did , it was definitely the most pleasurable one I could imagine .
CHARLOTTE: What changed ?
WILLS: My house in Malibu burned to the ground .
CHARLOTTE: What were you scared of ?
WILLS: How quickly time was passing and how adolescent I still felt . How meaningless all my choices seemed . How lonely I was . So I liquidated my portfolio , sold my businesses , and moved back here . To start over , settle down , start acting my age . You were supposed to be my one last dalliance with youth .
CHARLOTTE: Well , for your sake , I hope I am .
SARAH: Judge you ? Why would I ? Screw the age difference I like the new you ! Before Charlotte came along , do you have any idea how hard it was to get you to sit down for a Happy Meal ?
MOLLY: Uncle Wills , how come you do n't get married ?
JOHN: Yeah , how come , Uncle Wills ?
WILLS: I want to , Carla , but
MOLLY: I 'm not Carla ! I 'm Molly !
WILLS: Well , Molly , I just have n't met the ight woman yet .
CARLA: What about Charlotte ? She 's funny- pretty .
SARAH: It means funny and pretty . It 's thei highest compliment .
WILLS: I agree . She 's also demanding .
JOHN: Where 're you goin ' ?
WILLS: She 's decided she wants her birthday present today .
JOHN: But that was last month .
WILLS: The Dom did n't count . This is he eal present . She chose it herself and it 's not material .
JOHN: Now you got me curious .
SARAH: Yeah , what is it ?
HARI: Okay breath of fire now inhale deeply hold the breath let your heart lotus blossom feel the energy rise and exhale . Good . Now peacock pose .
WILLS: When does the enlightenment start ?
CHARLOTTE: When you realize that I 'm God .
HARI: Are you all right ? Charlotte sits up quickly , smiling
CHARLOTTE: Yeah . No big deal . Cramp in the old fifth shakra !
WILLS: Do n't worry . You 're gon na be okay .
CHARLOTTE: It 's no big deal . I just hyperventilated . Really .
WILLS: Excuse me do you have an extra one of those ?
LITTLE MAN: You a smoker ?
WILLS: Not for years .
LITTLE MAN: Well , hell , if I 'm gon na be the one to get you goin ' again . Pause .
WILLS: Thanks .
LITTLE MAN: Do n't mention it .
SIBLEY: The repeat MRI and CAT scan do show interval progression .
WILLS: Which means the tumor 's grown ?
SIBLEY: Yes . Yes , it has . Considerably . As for her loss of consciousness , one explanation is a disturbance in he heart 's electrical function . We 'll e monitoring her overnight for any arrhythmias . If we find something , we 'll treat it . Unfortunately , the more likely explanation is that the tumor has begun to obstruct the outflow of her heart . If that 's the case , there 's little we can do . We could be speaking in terms of weeks not months . They arrive at Charlotte 's room .
CHARLOTTE: Hey .
WILLS: Are you all right ? You 're okay ? How do you feel ?
CHARLOTTE: Stoned .
WILLS: I 'll let you rest . I should . You 'll sleep and then
CHARLOTTE: Shhh .
WILLS: I do not .
CHARLOTTE: Just 'cause I fainted is no excuse for you to bail on your peacock pose .
WILLS: It ought to be illegal .
CHARLOTTE: What ?
WILLS: Your smile . It 's too pretty .
CHARLOTTE: I 've ruined you for other women .
WILLS: You have .
CHARLOTTE: All part of my master plan . Do you wan na hear a story a bedtime story ?
WILLS: Should n't I be telling you one ?
CHARLOTTE: Once upon a time , there was a woman on a ship crossing the Atlantic and her little boy got sick . Very sick . And she said whoever saves my boy 's life I 'll name my next baby afte them . Well , they got into port and they rushed her son to St. Vincent 's hospital to here and they saved his life . And so the mother named her next baby Edna St. Vincent Millay . And Edna grew up to be , as I am sure you know , the second greatest female poet in American history .
WILLS: The first would be Emily Dickinson .
CHARLOTTE: You 're a quick learner I like that about you `` It may be , when my heart is dull , Having attained its girth , I shall not find so beautiful The meagre shapes of earth , Nor linger in the rain to mark The small of tansy through the dark . '' Her eyes drift shut
WILLS: Charlotte , listen , I
CHARLOTTE: Uh-oh . Heavy , heavy
WILLS: I just think
CHARLOTTE: No . No violins . I 'm fine . Go home sleep
SHANNON: It just did n't seem real and now that it is , I hate it ! It 's so unfair !
DOLLY: Fare is what you pay on the train to Jersey . Fair is the place that smells like manure where , if you 're real lucky , you win a blue ribbon fo your home-made pickles . Fair is a sky without a cloud and a face with a mark . Fare is food . What fair is n't is everything else .
SIMON: Well , I think I speak for all of us when I say that we 've heard quite enough from Dolores . Dolores chuckles . Simon continues to Wills
WILLS: That 's right . The tumor 's begun to interfere with the function of he heart , but she
SIMON: Then why exactly have you called us here ? Wills falters , looking at him incredulously .
WILLS: I thought Charlotte 's health might e of some interest you .
SIMON: It is . You could have told me all about it on the telephone .
WILLS: I also thought it might be a good idea if we discussed ways to make her as comfortable as possible fo the
SIMON: Charlotte loathes comfortable . I never sought to bore her with comfort while she was well , why should I start now that she 's sick ?
WILLS: Tell me , are you really so cold ? O is it just a pose that you 've cultivated ?
SIMON: It 's a pose that I 've cultivated . I chose it , as a sort of smoke screen , some time after attending my twentieth funeral in as many months . Pause .
WILLS: I 'm sorry .
SIMON: It 's quite all right . But , honestly , it shocks me how often you people forget . Our phone books have as many numbers crossed out as written in . So that while death is certainly as painful to us as it is to you , we do not find it nearly so extraordinary . Do n't misunderstand me . I adore Charlotte and when she dies , I would were it not already in that state cry my heart dry .
WILLS: She 's in the hospital now . She does n't have long . Weeks maybe and She Anyway , I have something to ask you . A favor . I have no right to ask . I know . I 'd do it myself , but I ca n't . I 'm too I 'm
LISA: What is it ?
WILLS: I want you to find a surgeon . Dr. Sibley told me Charlotte 's docto told me he said at some point , when it 's hopeless , surgery could be an option . Heroic surgery , he called it . I want to make sure that when the time comes a hero is performing that heroic surgery . Do you understand ? You 'll have to make calls . I 'll get names . Sibley will give me names . I 'm sorry to ask you I have no ight . But , you see , she does n't want it this surgery I 'll have to convince her . So no one can know for now . And I trust you . You 're my only family and I You have every right to refuse me . After what I did . You were a child and you needed me and I was nowhere to be found . There 's no excuse fo that . I 'm so terribly sorry ! Silence .
LISA: I 'd be happy to do it .
WILLS: I am , too . So sorry . I should be the one . It should be me .
CHARLOTTE: You never talk about my mother . Talk about her .
WILLS: What do you want to know ?
CHARLOTTE: Everything . All I remember is that she smelled like vanilla , loved to ead to me , and was really good at cutting up fruit . I could n't believe she did n't cut her fingers off .
WILLS: Well , I remember a little more than that . Let 's see she was blonde about your height
CHARLOTTE: I 've seen pictures , dummy .
WILLS: Oh , okay . She always ate her ice cream with a fork how 's that ?
CHARLOTTE: Much better .
WILLS: And she wrote great letters , but could n't spell at all .
CHARLOTTE: Neither can I .
WILLS: She was a McGovern Democrat but also an incredible snob . She loved lueberries . She had the world 's worst backhand . Her favorite singe was Stephen Stills .
CHARLOTTE: Who ?
WILLS: Never mind . She was afraid of sharks . And , considering the times , she was pretty square . She only tried drugs once a lifeguard gave her a hash ownie and she threw it up all ove him . Charlotte laughs .
CHARLOTTE: Did you know she was in love with you ?
WILLS: She told me .
CHARLOTTE: Were you in love with her ?
WILLS: Yes .
CHARLOTTE: Why ? Because she was the only girl in Rhode Island who would n't sleep with you ?
WILLS: That 's how she got my attention ; it 's not why I fell in love with her . I fell in love with her because she charmed me senseless day and night for an entire summer .
CHARLOTTE: Then why did you screw her best friend on Labor Day ?
WILLS: I have no idea . The summer was over . Your mom was going back to Smith . I was moving down here to work on Wall Street . It was our last day together . She was crying . She told me , for the first time , that she loved me . I said I loved her , too . I promised to call and visit . A few hours later I was in a cabana with Millie . When Millie told me she was pregnant and that she wanted to marry me , I escaped to L.A and I never saw her or your mom again .
CHARLOTTE: Well done .
WILLS: I think it 's part of the reason I never came back .
CHARLOTTE: But why 're you like that ? What is it ? I mean , you were n't born that way .
WILLS: I might as well have been . For as long as I can remember , I 've always un off at the first sign of a woman wanting anything from me relying on me in any way . She considers for a moment
CHARLOTTE: But I want everything from you , Wills . I rely on you in every way .
WILLS: I know .
CHARLOTTE: So the only reason you do n't dump me is because I 'm sick ? Because you know that it 's all going to be over , anyway ?
WILLS: Maybe . But it does n't feel that way . It feels as though I 'm not afraid anymore .
CHARLOTTE: I did n't know you could sing !
WILLS: I did n't know you could n't ! She laughs and continues to sing .
CHOIRMASTER: Well , you all know what time it is !
CHARLOTTE: No , I do n't . Do you ?
CHOIRMASTER: HAPPY HOLIDAYS !
WILLS: I love you , Charlotte .
CHARLOTTE: You call that a rose ? It looks more like a hand grenade !
HENRY: Mr. Keane , you get her outta here or , I swear to God , I 'm gon na utterfly and stuff her !
WILLS: I 'll add it to the specials list .
CHARLOTTE: No way ! I 'm too pricey !
JOHN: You seen Celia ?
WILLS: What 's the matter ?
JOHN: The matter is I got a half-hour wait and no help up front ! You got a call on Two !
WILLS: Wills Keane .
LISA: I 've got him !
GRANDY: Listen , I 'm not gon na bullshit you . If she were a baby , she 'd have a decent chance , 'cause these sorts of tumors can regress like crazy , but she 's twenty and I do n't know , man I 've never seen anything like it . I mean , look ! It 's wrapped around her vital structures like an octopus ! You know , just once I 'd like to get sent something simple . A `` cabbage , '' a valve replacement . Even a good old- fashioned transplant . But it does n't happen anymore . It 's the downside of eing good at my job .
WILLS: Good ? They say there 's no one better .
GRANDY: I do n't know . I 'm like most people . I do the best I can .
WILLS: Can your best save her ?
GRANDY: Probably not .
WILLS: No problem .
GRANDY: Good . The last time Charlotte passed out , she regained consciousness almost immediately . The next time or the time after , she wo n't . When that happens , call me . Here 's my service . They 'll reach me no matter where I am . In the meantime , I 'll coordinate with Dr. Sibley .
WILLS: I ca n't thank you enough . Grandy smiles and pats him on the shoulder .
GRANDY: I have n't done anything yet .
CHARLOTTE: By the way where were you today ?
WILLS: What do you mean ?
CHARLOTTE: When you called I assumed you were at the restaurant , but when I called ack later , Jesus said you had n't een in all day .
WILLS: I was in Montclair , New Jersey .
CHARLOTTE: Why ?
WILLS: An opportunity .
CHARLOTTE: Oh , really ? Sexual or professional ?
WILLS: I was considering opening a estaurant . But the rents are too high . He smiles at her . And she smiles back .
CHARLOTTE: Hey ! How do you feel about Christmas ?
WILLS: Bah humbug
MICHAEL: Will you and Mister Keane be goin ' away for the holidays ?
CHARLOTTE: I doubt it .
MICHAEL: I 've seen so little of America . I do n't care for airplanes , you see , and I have so little time to travel . Did Mister Keane enjoy his trip then ?
CHARLOTTE: What trip ?
MICHAEL: Why , just yesterday .
CHARLOTTE: I would n't really call that a trip .
MICHAEL: Perhaps not . But I 've never been to Ohio myself . They say parts of it are quite lovely .
WILLS: Straight ?
CHARLOTTE: I thought we had a deal .
WILLS: I 'm sure we do . About what ?
CHARLOTTE: Lying . You were in Ohio yesterday .
WILLS: I met with a heart specialist . He 's willing to operate .
CHARLOTTE: But you know I do n't want that ! You know I 've signed papers that
WILLS: Well , maybe I want it .
CHARLOTTE: It is n't your decision !
WILLS: Of course not , but if you 'll hear me out
CHARLOTTE: No ! I told you right from the start how I felt and you went behind my ack ! You lied and
WILLS: Oh , Christ , knock it off ! You 're such a god damn saint , so above it all , but you 're scared to death ! You do want to live ! And if you were as honest as you say you are you 'd let the doctors do whatever they can to help you !
CHARLOTTE: I wo n't give people hope when there is n't any .
WILLS: Why not ? ! Maybe we want hope ! O maybe we just need to know that we did everything we could ! Maybe I need to know that if I 'm going to e able to live to go on without without
CHARLOTTE: Now I know why you hurt so many women . Because you always knew if you held on to one of them , you 'd never let go .
WILLS: So had I .
CHARLOTTE: But now we have each other . Oh , what would I do , Wills ? What would I do if you were n't here ? Where would I be ?
WILLS: You do n't ever have to worry about that .
CHARLOTTE: I 'll do whatever I have to ! I 'll tear up the papers ! Whatever you want ! Tell the doctor ! Because I eally do want I do n't want to leave you !
WILLS: Yeah ?
CHARLOTTE: How long was I asleep ?
WILLS: A couple of hours .
CHARLOTTE: Wow . And I 'm still tired .
WILLS: That 's all right . Relax .
CHARLOTTE: What 're you doing in there ?
WILLS: Nothing . She laughs and starts to get up
CHARLOTTE: Liar !
WILLS: Do n't ! Do n't move ! Just one more minute ! He closes the door .
CHARLOTTE'S VOICE: What 're you doing ? !
WILLS: You were just going to tire yourself out !
CHARLOTTE'S VOICE: This I 've got ta see !
WILLS: Just hold on !
CHARLOTTE: What have I done to you ?
WILLS: Ruined me for other women .
CHARLOTTE: No I saved you for them
MALE VOICE: Is she type ' n ' cross for six units ? !
NURSE'S VOICE: Yes , Doctor .
GRANDY: What 're we waiting for ?
WILLS: It happened so quickly . We 'd just talked about the surgery . She agreed to it . But I thought there 'd be time .
SIMON: I 've had friends who were n't expected to last till morning who lived anothe seven years . Another ran a marathon and died the next weekend . It 's all so terribly random the way life actually works . I take nothing fo granted .
WILLS: You know , it 's funny , the first time I saw her , I
LISA: Actually , to be honest , Peter 's more than a little freaked . I mean , how could he not be ? He 's twenty-six . His first child . A baby girl , no less . Nothing really prepares you for it .
WILLS: I guess not .
LISA: He said it 's the first time since we got married that he 's actually ealized what marriage is . That it 's forever . That he ca n't just pick up and run away to Nepal or something if we have a fight . That he 's part of the cycle of things now . That he 's gon na die some day . That it 's the next generation 's turn to take the stage .
PERKY NEWSCASTER: The Bengal tiger , extinct for over a century , is making a comeback . These cloned tiger cubs at the Beijing Zoo are
JAKE: I hope you realize you 've just lost a customer !
AGENT 1: Are you Jake Sully ?
JAKE: Step off . You 're ruinin ' my good mood .
AGENT 2: It 's about your brother .
JAKE: Jesus , Tommy .
AGENT 1: Your brother represented a significant investment . We 'd like to talk to you about taking over his contract .
JAKE: Are we there ?
MED TECH: We 're there , Sunshine .
CREW CHIEF: Exopacks on !
WAINFLEET: Look at all that new meat .
FIKE: Check it out , man . Meals on wheels .
WAINFLEET: That is just wrong .
JAKE: What 're you two limpdicks starin ' at ?
WAINFLEET: Seen a lotta guys leave this place in a wheelchair . Never seen anybody show up in one .
QUARITCH: You are on Pandora , ladies and gentlemen . Respect that fact every second of every day .
NORM: Hey , you 're Jake right ? Tom 's brother ? You look just like him . Sorry , I 'm Norm Spellman , I went through avatar training with him .
JAKE: Yeah .
NORM: And duh ! obviously you look like him . I mean , if you were n't genetically identical , you would n't be taking ove his avatar .
JAKE: That 's why I 'm here .
NORM: So you want to go check it out ?
MAX: Me and Norm were out here to drive these emotely controlled bodies called avatars . They 're grown from human DNA mixed with DNA from the natives here .
JAKE: Damn . They got big .
NORM: Yeah , they mature on the trip out . So the proprioceptive sims worked pretty well .
MAX: Yeah , they 've got great muscle tone . Give us a few hours , you guys can take them for a spin .
JAKE: It looks like him .
NORM: No , it looks like you . This is you avatar now , Jake .
JAKE: so their nervous systems are in tune . Or something . Which is why they offered me this gig , because I can link with Tommy 's avatar , which was insanely expensive . Is this right ? I just say whatever in these videologs ?
NORM: Yeah . You just need to get in the habit of documenting everything what you see , what you feel it 's all part of the science . Good science starts with good observation .
JAKE: Right . So , whatever . Here I am . Doing science . Never been in a lab before .
MAX: Log off . It 's time to meet your boss fo the next five years .
NORM: Grace Augustine is a legend . She 's the head of the Avatar Program , and she wrote the book I mean literally wrote the ook on Pandoran botany .
MAX: That 's because she likes plants bette than people .
GRACE: Who 's got my goddamn cigarette ? !
MAX: And here she is , Cinderella back from the all . Grace , I 'd like you to meet Norm Spellman and Ja
GRACE: Norm . I hear good things about you . How 's your Na'vi ?
NORM: May the All Mother smile upon our first meeting .
GRACE: Not bad . You sound a little formal .
NORM: There is still much to learn .
MAX: Uh , Grace , this is Jake S
GRACE: Yeah , yeah , I know who you are , and I do n't need you . I need your brother . You know the PhD who trained three years for this mission .
JAKE: He 's dead . I know it 's a big inconvenience to everyone .
GRACE: How much lab training have you had ? Eve un a gas chromatograph ?
JAKE: No .
GRACE: Any actual lab work at all ?
JAKE: High school chemistry . But I ditched .
GRACE: You see ? You see ? They 're pissing on us without even the courtesy of calling it ain . I 'm going to Selfridge .
MAX: Grace , that 's not a good idea .
GRACE: Parker , I used to think it was benign neglect , but now I see you 're intentionally screwing us .
SELFRIDGE: Grace . You know I enjoy our little talks .
GRACE: I need a research assistant , not some jarhead dropout .
SELFRIDGE: Actually , we got lucky with him .
GRACE: Lucky ? How is this in any way lucky ?
SELFRIDGE: Well lucky your guy had a twin other , and lucky the brother was n't an oral hygienist or something . A Marine we can use . I 'm assigning him to your team as security escort .
GRACE: The last thing I need is another trigge happy asshole out there !
SELFRIDGE: Look , you 're supposed to be winning the hearts and minds of the natives . Is n't that the whole point of your little puppet show ? If you look like them , if you talk like them , they 'll trust you ?
GRACE: That tends to happen when you use machine guns on them .
SELFRIDGE: This is why we 're here . Unobtanium . Because this little gray rock sells fo twenty million a kilo . No other reason . This is what pays for the party . And it 's what pays for your science . Comprendo ?
GRACE: How much link time have you logged ?
NORM: Five hundred and twenty hours .
JAKE: Like an hour .
GRACE: Tell me you 're joking .
JAKE: Do n't ! I got this .
GRACE: So you just figured you 'd come out here to the most hostile environment known to man , with no training of any kind , and see how it went ? What was going through your head ?
JAKE: Maybe I was just tired of doctors telling me what I could n't do .
GRACE: Relax and let your mind go blank . That should n't be hard for you .
JAKE: Kiss the darkest part of my lily white
MAX: Initiate link .
GRACE: Go figure . Alright , I 'm going in .
TECH: Phase-lock at forty percent . He 's in transition .
MAX: That 's it . Find your way home .
TECH: Phase-lock ninety nine percent . The link is stable .
MAX: Take it slow , Jake . We need to check your motor control . Try touching you fingertips together
MED TECH: Easy , Jake , I need you to sit down
MAX: Jake ! Wait , we have to run some tests
JAKE: Grace ?
GRACE: Well who 'd you expect , numbnuts ? Think fast !
NORM: I am a living god .
QUARITCH: For you pogues , this is a banshee . A small one . See , they like it when I ing fresh meat out here . And this clearcutting really stirs up the hornet 's nest . So keep your head on a swivel . If it moves , shoot it . If you 're not sure it 's moving shoot it ! If it looks like a bunch of flowers you want to take home to Sally Rottencrotch SHOOT IT ! What 're you gon na do ?
TROOPERS: Shoot it , sir !
QUARITCH: Outstanding . Let 's roll .
JAKE: That 's kinda freaky .
GRACE: Lights out amigos . See ya ' at dinner .
TRUDY: Sully Colonel wants to see you in the Armor Bay .
JAKE: You guys 're packing some heavy ordinance .
TRUDY: Yeah , ` cause we 're not the only thing flyin ' around out there . Or the biggest . I 'm gon na need you on a door gun , I 'm a man short .
JAKE: Yeah , no problem .
TRUDY: See ya on the flight-line , zero nine . He 's down there .
QUARITCH: This low gravity makes you soft . You get soft , Pandora will shit you out dead with zero warning .
JAKE: I figured just another hellhole .
MECHANIC: That servo 's in , Colonel , if you want to try it .
QUARITCH: I was in First Recon a few years ahead of you . More than a few . Two tours in Nigeria , not a scratch . I come out here and
JAKE: That sounds real good , Colonel . So am I still with Augustine ?
QUARITCH: On paper . You walk like one of he science pukes , you quack like one , but you report to me . Can you do that fo me ?
GRACE: Start calibrating . We 're on the flight line in ten minutes .
JAKE: Just Marines comparin ' tattoos .
GRACE: Yeah . Well , listen to me , Marine
JAKE: Got it .
GRACE: That son of a bitch has screwed up this program enough . All this exists so we can go out there and uild a bridge of trust to these people , who could teach us so much . But thanks to Quaritch and his thugs the Na'vi wo n't even talk to us anymore .
JAKE: Then how 's this supposed to work ?
GRACE: We have a new face . You 're fluent , you 've studied the culture . You 're non-threatening . The ones we know best the Omaticaya clan may give you a chance . Maybe you can get them back to the table before things go tits-up for good .
NORM: This is failing as a pep talk .
JAKE: How do we contact them ?
GRACE: We do n't . They contact us . If they see us taking our samples , treating the forest with respect Not trampling everything in sight they may reach out to us .
JAKE: Or they may skin us and make a drum .
GRACE: Just keep your mouth shut and let Norm do the talking .
NORM: The bull has the red on the dorsal armor ?
WAINFLEET: Yo Chacon ! Get some !
GRACE: Stay with the ship . One idiot with a gun 's enough .
WAINFLEET: Whatever you say , Doc .
GRACE: Relax , Marine . You 're making me nervous .
NORM: How will they know we 're here ?
GRACE: I 'm sure they 're watching us right now .
NORM: Why do n't they come back ?
GRACE: The Na'vi learned as much about us as they needed to know .
JAKE: What happened here ?
GRACE: Are you going to help with this gear ? We 've got a lot to do .
JAKE: It 's already pissed off !
GRACE: Jake , that armor 's too thick . Trust me .
JAKE: What do I do ?
GRACE: Hold your ground !
JAKE: Oh yeah ! Who 's bad ? ! That 's right .
GRACE: Run . Definitely RUN !
TRUDY: Sorry , Doc . He 's just gon na have to hang on ` till morning .
GRACE: He 's not going to make it till morning .
JAKE: I do n't have all goddamn night ! Come on ! Come on !
NEYTIRI: Rrreeyaaah ! Hyaaaah ! !
JAKE: Wait , do n't
NEYTIRI: Forgive me , my brother .
JAKE: Look , um , I know you probably do n't understand this . But thanks . Thank you . I owe you .
NEYTIRI: Forgive me . May your spirit run with the Great Mother .
JAKE: I would have been screwed if you had n't come along
NEYTIRI: Do n't thank ! You do n't thank for this ! This is sad . Very sad , only .
JAKE: Okay , I 'm sorry . Whatever I did I 'm sorry .
NEYTIRI: All this is your fault ! They did not need to die .
JAKE: They attacked me . How 'm I the bad guy
NEYTIRI: Your fault ! You are like a baby , making noise , do n't know what to do . You should not come here , all of you ! You only come and make problems . Only .
JAKE: Okay , fine , you love your little forest friends . So why not just let them kill my ass ? What 's the thinking ?
NEYTIRI: Why save you ?
JAKE: Yes , why save me ?
NEYTIRI: You have a strong heart . No fear .
JAKE: If I 'm so ignorant , maybe you should teach me .
NEYTIRI: Sky people can not learn . You do not See .
JAKE: Whooaa .
NEYTIRI: No one can teach you to See .
JAKE: Hey , slow down . Look , I think we just got off on the wrong foot and
NEYTIRI: You should not be here .
JAKE: So take me with you .
NEYTIRI: No . You go back .
JAKE: What ?
NEYTIRI: Atokirina ' . Seeds of the Great Tree very pure spirits .
JAKE: What was that all about ?
NEYTIRI: Come !
JAKE: What 's your name ?
NEYTIRI: Tsu'tey , what are you doing ? ! He is my captive !
TSU'TEY: These demons are forbidden here . I will kill this one as a lesson to the others !
NEYTIRI: Stop ! There has been a sign . This is a matter for the Tsahik .
TSU'TEY: Bring him .
EYTUKAN: Why do you bring this creature here ?
NEYTIRI: I was going to kill him , but there was a sign from Eywa .
EYTUKAN: I have said no dreamwalker will come here , to offend our home ! His alien smell fills my nose
NEYTIRI: Father , many atokirina came to this alien .
JAKE: What 's going on ?
NEYTIRI: My father is deciding whether to kill you .
JAKE: Your father ! ? Uh , good to meet you , sir .
MO'AT: Step back !
NEYTIRI: That is Mother . She is Tsahik the one who interprets the will of Eywa .
JAKE: Who 's Eywa ?
MO'AT: What are you called ?
JAKE: Jake Sully .
MO'AT: Why did you come to us ?
JAKE: I came to learn .
MO'AT: We have tried to teach other Sky People . It is hard to fill a cup which is already full .
JAKE: My cup is empty , trust me . Just ask Doctor Augustine . I 'm no scientist .
MO'AT: What are you ?
JAKE: I do n't know . I was a Marine uh , a warrior . Of the Jarhead clan .
TSU'TEY: A warrior ! I could kill him easily !
EYTUKAN: No ! This is the first warrio dreamwalker we have seen . We need to learn more about him .
JAKE: What 's going on ? What are they saying ?
MO'AT: Daughter . You will teach him our way , to speak and walk as we do .
NEYTIRI: Why me ? That 's not fair ! I only
MO'AT: It is decided !
JAKE: So it 's all good , right ? You and me
NEYTIRI: Do not speak .
JAKE: Do n't get up .
NEYTIRI: Neytiri te Ckaha Mo'at'ite .
JAKE: Okay , again , a whole lot slower .
NEYTIRI: Neytiri . Nay-TEE-ree .
JAKE: Nay-TEE-ree . That 's nice . Nay-TEE-ree .
TSU'TEY: These aliens try to look like people , but they ca n't .
MO'AT: He seems dim to me . And his eyes are too small .
JAKE: Your mom likes me . I can tell .
MO'AT: Neytiri will test this `` warrior . '' Hey may learn nothing but we will learn much .
EYTUKAN: You speak truth . We must understand these Sky People if we are to drive them out .
JAKE: These rock . What are they ?
NEYTIRI: Teylu . You call beetle larvae .
JAKE: That 's some damn fine teylu . That 's like grandma 's teylu .
TSU'TEY: I say she will kill him .
GRACE: Come on back , kid , that 's it .
JAKE: Wha ? Oh .
GRACE: Damn , you were dug in like a tick . Is the avatar safe ?
JAKE: Yeah , Doc and you are not going to elieve where I am .
GRACE: so the kid 's out there one night and he 's got the Queen Bitch herself offering him the spare room and the car keys . Unbelievable .
JAKE: It 's not something you can teach .
MAX: That 's awesome , Jake .
GRACE: For reasons I can not fathom , the Omaticaya have chosen you . God help us all .
QUARITCH: Jarhead clan ? And that worked ?
JAKE: Yeah . They want to study me . See if I can learn to be one of them .
QUARITCH: That 's how you seize the initiative . I wish I had ten more like you .
SELFRIDGE: Look , Sully find out what these blue monkeys want .
SELFRIDGE: Their damn village is sitting right ove the richest unobtanium deposit for a hundred klicks in any direction . Which sucks for them because they need to elocate .
JAKE: Does Augustine know about this ?
SELFRIDGE: Yeah , she does , and she 's on the next ship back if she tries to cock-block me on it .
JAKE: So who talks them into moving ?
QUARITCH: Guess .
JAKE: What if they wo n't go ?
QUARITCH: I 'm betting they will .
SELFRIDGE: Killing the indigenous looks bad , but there 's one thing shareholders hate more than bad press and that 's a bad quarterly statement . Find me a carrot to get them to move , or it 's going to have to be all stick .
QUARITCH: You got three months . That 's when the dozers get there .
JAKE: I 'm on it .
GRACE: He 's the clan leader but she 's the spiritual leader . Like a shaman .
JAKE: Got it . So who 's this Eywa ?
NORM: Who 's Eywa ? Oh , only their deity . The Great Mother . The goddess made up of all living things . You 'd know that if you had any training whatsoever .
JAKE: Who 's got a date with the chief 's daughter ?
GRACE: Knock it off . Jesus , it 's like kindergarten around here .
JAKE: I did n't meet the sister .
GRACE: No , she 's dead . Okay , let 's go village life starts early .
MAX: Link is ready .
GRACE: Do n't do anything unusually stupid .
NEYTIRI: This is shahaylu the bond . Feel he heartbeat , her breath . Feel her strong legs .
JAKE: Forward .
NEYTIRI: Again .
TSU'TEY: You should go away .
JAKE: I knew this guy could speak English .
TSU'TEY: This alien will learn nothing . A rock Sees more .
NEYTIRI: Again .
JAKE: You 've got outer columns , then a secondary ring here , and an inner ring . Then a core structure , it 's like a spiral , that 's how they move up and down .
QUARITCH: I 'm going to need accurate scans of all these columns .
JAKE: Roger that .
GRACE: I 'm not about to let Quaritch and Selfridge micro-manage this thing . We 're going up into the mountains .
NORM: The Hallelujah Mountains ?
GRACE: That 's right .
NORM: Yesssss ! The legendary Floating Mountains of Pandora ? Heard of them ?
TRUDY: It only takes tiny inputs . Here , put your hand on the cyclic
GRACE: See these magnetic formations . We 're getting close .
TRUDY: Yeah we are . Look at my instruments .
GRACE: Yup . We 're in the flux vortex .
NORM: Oh . My . God .
TRUDY: You should see your face .
GRACE: Jake , take number two , it 's the least glitchy . Norm , I need you to operate Jake 's link .
JAKE: Hey . You got a problem ?
NORM: I trained three years for this mission . I speak the language fluently . He falls off the frickin ' turnip truck and all of a sudden he 's cultural ambassador ! ?
GRACE: It 's not our choice , Norm .
NORM: Yeah , well I did n't come out here to wash the dishes while you 're on some interspecies booty call .
GRACE: He ca n't go far .
JAKE: Holy shit .
NEYTIRI: Do not look in her eye .
JAKE: When ?
NEYTIRI: When you are ready .
JAKE: Do I have to do this ? I need some rack .
GRACE: No now , when it 's fresh .
JAKE: Yeah , yeah . The days are starting to blur together . The language is a bitch , but I figure it 's like field-stripping a weapon . Repetition .
NORM: Thank you ?
JAKE: Ireiyo .
NORM: Irrrreiyo . Irrrreiyo . You 've got ta roll the R , r-r-r-oll it .
GRACE: I See you , Neytiri Mo'at'ite .
NEYTIRI: I See you , Doctor Grace Augustine .
JAKE: I just hope this treehugger shit is n't on the final .
GRACE: This is n't just about eye-hand coordination out there . You need to listen to what she says . Try to see the forest through their eyes .
JAKE: Excuse me this is my video-log here , okay ?
NEYTIRI: A clean kill . You are ready .
GRACE: You 're still losing weight . Here
JAKE: I made a kill today . We ate it . I know where that meal came from .
GRACE: Other body . You need to take care of this body .
JAKE: Yeah yeah .
GRACE: Jake , I 'm serious you look like crap . You 're burning too hard .
JAKE: Get rid of this shit , then you can lecture me .
GRACE: I 'm telling you , as your boss and someone who might even consider being a friend someday , to take some down time .
JAKE: Not now . Tomorrow we leave for Iknimaya .
GRACE: Yeah you 're gon na go ride a banshee . Or die trying .
JAKE: That 's right , Grace . This is what I 've een working for .
GRACE: And this is your check up from the neck up , Marine . You 're getting in way too deep . Trust me , I learned the hard way .
JAKE: What did happen at the school ?
GRACE: Neytiri 's sister Sylwanin stopped coming to school . She was angry about the clear-cutting .
MILDLY: I got most of the kids out , before they shot me .
JAKE: Jesus .
GRACE: Yeah .
JAKE: We doin ' this ?
TSU'TEY: Jakesully will go first .
NEYTIRI: Now you choose your ikran . This you must feel inside . If he also chooses you , move quick , like I showed . You will have one chance .
JAKE: How will I know if he chooses me ?
NEYTIRI: He will try to kill you .
JAKE: Outstanding .
NEYTIRI: First flight seals the bond . You can not wait .
JAKE: Heeeyyyaaaah !
GRACE: The Great Leonopteryx is the apex aerial predator . Not only rare , but the sightings tend not to get reported .
TRUDY: There usually is n't time to key the mike .
JAKE: The People call it Toruk .
NORM: Last Shadow .
JAKE: Last one you ever see .
TRUDY: I saw one take out a gunship once WHAM ! Total frickin ' yard sale . Ate the crew like peanuts .
JAKE: That 's it .
GRACE: Vitraya Ramunong The Well of Souls . It 's their most sacred place .
TRUDY: They 're coming back .
JAKE: Hey , guys .
NEYTIRI: My grandfather 's grandfather was Toruk Macto Rider of Last Shadow . Toruk chose him . It has only happened five times since the time of the First Songs .
JAKE: That 's a long time .
NEYTIRI: Toruk Macto was mighty he brought the clans together in a time of great sorrow . All Na'vi people know this story .
GRACE: Watch that stuff . It 'll knock you into next week .
TSU'TEY: I thought enough drink you would not be so ugly .
JAKE: Sorry .
TSU'TEY: Your warriors hide inside machines fight from far away . I did not think a sky person could be ave .
NEYTIRI: You must dance ! It is the way .
MO'AT: We can not let this seed grow . Her path is with Tsu'tey .
JAKE: I can barely remember my old life . I 'm not sure who I am anymore .
SELFRIDGE: Good of you to stop by . How 's it going out there ? Our blue friends all packed up yet ?
JAKE: You called us back to report you want to hear it or not ?
SELFRIDGE: Go ahead .
GRACE: Jake is making incredible progress , years worth in just a few months . But we need more time .
SELFRIDGE: Not what I was hoping to hear .
GRACE: Parker , it 's their ancestral home . They 've lived there since before human history began . You can spare them a few more weeks .
SELFRIDGE: This thing is inevitable . What does it matter when it happens ? I 'm sorry , Dr. Augustine . You 're out of time .
QUARITCH: You 're not gettin ' lost in the woods , are you son ?
JAKE: No . I can do this .
QUARITCH: Look , you 've given me plenty of usable intel . Like this `` Well of Souls '' place I 've got them by the balls with that , when it turns into a shit-fight . Which it will .
SHOULDER: It 's time to come in .
JAKE: I 've got ta finish this thing . There 's one more test the Dream Hunt . It 's the final stage of becoming a man . Then I 'm one of them . They 'll trust what I say
QUARITCH: Then you need to get it done , Corporal .
GRACE: Jake , I ca n't allow this . You 're just not strong enough .
JAKE: It 's the last door I 'm going through it . You can help me or get out of the way .
GRACE: Will you listen to me ? Sometimes the Na'vi themselves die in these vision quests . The venom takes you to the edge of death .
NORM: Calibrating . Thirty seconds .
GRACE: No matter what you prove out there you are still in here . Right here .
JAKE: I have to go all the way become one of
GRACE: Goddammit , Jake , you can never be one of them !
JAKE: You know why I 'm here ? Because Quaritch sent me .
NORM: What ?
JAKE: That 's right to embed with the Omaticaya . To find out how to screw them out of their home . By deceit or by force , he did n't care . And if it turned out to be force , then how best to do it .
GRACE: And what about now , Jake ?
JAKE: I 'm not that guy any more .
GRACE: I know .
JAKE: But if I tell Quaritch the truth , he yanks me out I never see her again . And if I tell her the truth , the clan throws me out that 's if they do n't cut my heart out and show it to me .
NORM: They wo n't understand what you 've done .
JAKE: They do n't even have a word for `` lie '' they had to learn it from us .
GRACE: I know . I taught it to them .
JAKE: Grace . I 've got ta go . They 're waiting .
NORM: Link is ready .
GRACE: Jake . You ca n't carry this burden much longer .
JAKE: It 's okay . Mo'at says an alien mind probably ca n't survive the Dream Hunt anyway .
GRACE: Prep my link . I 'm going in .
NEYTIRI: When your Spirit Animal comes , you will know .
MO'AT: Oh wise worm , eater of the Sacred Tree less this worthy Hunter with a true vision .
EYTUKAN: Did your Spirit Animal come ?
MO'AT: Something has come . It will take time for the meaning to be clear .
EYTUKAN: You are now a son of the Omaticaya . You are part of the People .
NEYTIRI: This is a place for prayers to be heard . And sometimes answered .
JAKE: It 's like a sound you feel .
NEYTIRI: We call this utraya mokri the Tree of Voices . The voices of our ancestors , who live within Eywa .
JAKE: I do n't want Ninat .
NEYTIRI: There is Beyral she is a good hunter
JAKE: I 've already chosen . But this woman must also choose me .
NEYTIRI: She already has .
JAKE: Neytiri , you know my real body is fa away , sleeping .
NEYTIRI: This body is real . This spirit is real .
WHISPERING: Spirit is all that matters .
NEYTIRI: I am with you now , Jake . We are mated fo life .
JAKE: We are ?
NEYTIRI: Yes . It is our way .
INNOCENTLY: Oh . I forgot to tell ?
JAKE: Really , we are ?
NEYTIRI: We are .
JAKE: It 's cool . I 'm there .
NEYTIRI: Jake ! Wake up ! Where ever you are , come ack to me now . Jake !
GRACE: Here eat this . I 'd hate to have to force-feed a cripple .
JAKE: Hey ! Heeeey ! Stop ! Stop !
OPERATOR: Hey , I got one of the natives blockin ' my lade here .
SUPERVISOR: What do we do ?
SELFRIDGE: Roll on . He 'll move . These people have to learn that we do n't stop .
OPERATOR: I 'm blind .
QUARITCH: Freeze it , right there .
SELFRIDGE: Son of a bitch !
QUARITCH: Get me a pilot !
EYTUKAN: Tsu'tey will lead the war party !
GRACE: Please this will only make it worse
TSU'TEY: You do not speak here !
JAKE: Okay , listen . There 's something I have to tell you . It 's gon na be hard . I just need you to
TSU'TEY: You !
GRACE: Oh shit .
MO'AT: Is this true ?
NEYTIRI: We are mated before Eywa . It is done .
TSU'TEY: Neytiri was promised to me ! Everything is changing . Everything is being destroyed !
MO'AT: Neytiri ! If you choose this path , you can never be Tsahik . Your life will be wasted .
NEYTIRI: I have chosen .
TSU'TEY: Yeeeeeaaa !
EYTUKAN: Stop ! This is not a proper challenge .
TSU'TEY: I challenge you .
GRACE: Jake , do n't
JAKE: I accept .
TRUDY: Loveshack this is Samson One Six inbound hot to your pos . I have Colonel Quaritch with me and
QUARITCH: Did I tell you to announce us ?
TRUDY: Sorry sir , it 's procedure .
NORM: Samson One Six ? Trudy ? Crap .
GRACE: What the hell are you doing ?
JAKE: It 's the only way to get him to goddamn listen .
NORM: Hey , hang on , you ca n't interrupt a link in progress , it 's dangerous wait !
JAKE: Are you out of your goddamn mind ? !
QUARITCH: You crossed a line .
TSU'TEY: This is a demon in a false body . It should not live .
QUARITCH: You let me down , son . You got a little local pussy and completely forgot what team you play for .
GRACE: Parker , listen , there may still be time to
QUARITCH: Shut your fucking hole !
GRACE: Or what , Ranger Rick ? You gon na shoot me ? You need to muzzle your dog !
SELFRIDGE: Can we just take this down a couple notches , please .
JAKE: You say you want to keep your people alive . Start by listening to her .
GRACE: This is bad , Parker . Those trees were sacred to the Omaticaya in a way you ca n't imagine .
SELFRIDGE: You know what ? You throw a stick in the air around here it falls on some sacred fern .
GRACE: I 'm not talking about pagan voodoo here I 'm talking about something real and measurable in the biology of the forest .
SELFRIDGE: Which is what exactly ?
GRACE: I ca n't do this . How am I supposed to educe years of work to a sound bite fo the illiterate ?
JAKE: Just tell him what you know in you heart .
GRACE: Alright , look I do n't have the answers yet , I 'm just now starting to even frame the questions . What we think we know is that there 's some kind of electrochemical communication between the oots of the trees . Like the synapses etween neurons . Each tree has ten to the fourth connections to the trees around it , and there are ten to the twelfth trees on Pandora
SELFRIDGE: That 's a lot I 'm guessing .
GRACE: That 's more connections than the human ain . You get it ? It 's a network a global network . And the Na'vi can access it they can upload and download data memories at sites like the one you destroyed .
SELFRIDGE: What the hell have you people been smoking out there ? They 're just . Goddamn . Trees .
GRACE: You need to wake up , Parker . The wealth of this world is n't in the ground it 's all around us . The Na'vi know that , and they 're fighting to defend it . If you want to share this world with them , you need to understand them .
QUARITCH: We understand them just fine . Thanks to Jake here .
GRACE: Parker , we have to talk , like rational people .
SELFRIDGE: Well , I 'd cherish that , but unfortunately you 're out of here on the next shuttle . All of you . I 'm shutting down the Avata Program , effective now .
WAINFLEET: They hit with banshees first . Set the ampsuit on fire . Driver 's toast .
QUARITCH: The rest of the squad ?
WAINFLEET: Six bodies that 's all of ` em . And the equipment is totalled .
SELFRIDGE: Christ .
QUARITCH: I can do it with minimal casualties to the indigenous . We 'll clear them out with gas first . It 'll be humane . More o less .
SELFRIDGE: Alright , let 's pull the trigger .
GRACE: They bulldozed a sacred site on purpose , to trigger a response . They 're fabricating this war to get what they want .
NORM: I ca n't believe that .
JAKE: Yup . That 's how it 's done . When people are sitting on shit you want , you make them your enemy . Then you 're justified in taking it .
TRUDY: Sec-ops is rolling the gunships . They 're gon na hit Hometree !
JAKE: When ?
TRUDY: Now . We 're spooling up now ! I got ta go .
GRACE: My God .
SELFRIDGE: They 're fly-bitten savages who live in a tree ! Look around I do n't know about you but I see a lot of trees . They can move .
GRACE: For God 's sake , there are children in there . Babies !
JAKE: Look Selfridge , you do n't want this kind of blood on your hands . Let me try to talk them out . They trust me .
SELFRIDGE: You 've got one hour . Unless you want your girlfriend in there when the axe comes down , you get them to evacuate . One hour .
JAKE: Eytukan , I have something to say , to everyone .
EYTUKAN: Speak , Jakesully .
JAKE: A great evil is upon us . The Sky People are coming to destroy Hometree . They will be here soon .
MO'AT: Are you certain of this ?
JAKE: They sent me here to learn your ways . So one day I could bring this message , and you would believe it .
NEYTIRI: What are you saying , Jake ? You knew this would happen ?
JAKE: Yes .
ANGUISHED: At first it was just orders . Then everything changed . I fell in love with the forest , with the Omaticaya People with you . And by then , how could I tell you ?
NEYTIRI: I trusted you , Jake !
JAKE: Neytiri . Please , I only wanted to
NEYTIRI: You will never be one of the People !
TSUTEY: Bind them .
QUARITCH: Well , I 'd say diplomacy has failed .
JAKE: You have to get out of Hometree ! Run to the forest ! Please , I 'm begging you !
EYTUKAN: Take the ikran ! Attack from above !
QUARITCH: Alright , let 's get this done . Give me forty millimeter gas rounds , right in the front door .
GUNNER: Roger . CS forties . Going hot .
QUARITCH: Fire .
EYTUKAN: Everybody outside ! Go to the Forest .
MO'AT: You are one of us . Help us !
JAKE: We 've got ta move ! He 's gon na blow the columns .
QUARITCH: That 's how you scatter the roaches . Okay , switch missiles . Give me H-E 's at the ase of the west columns .
TRUDY: Screw it .
QUARITCH: Bring it down .
JAKE: Neytiri ! Neytiri !
EYTUKAN: Daughter take my bow . Protect the People .
JAKE: I 'm sorry
NEYTIRI: Get away from me , Jake . Go away ! Neve come back !
SELFRIDGE: Pull the plug .
MO'AT: Bring her .
GRACE: They never wanted us to succeed .
TRUDY: Personally I think steak 's too good fo these traitors .
GUARD: They get steak ? That 's bullshit . Let me see that
TRUDY: Oops . All the way down , pendejo .
MAX: That was unexpectedly satisfying .
NORM: Baby , you rock .
JAKE: Thanks .
GRACE: I 'm free .
JAKE: Come on .
TROOPER: I need you to shut down and step out of the vehicle ! Now !
JAKE: Take it nice and easy , troop .
GRACE: Do what he goddamn says !
JAKE: Go ! Go ! Go !
GRACE: Aaahh , crap . Not again .
JAKE: Hang on , Grace .
TRUDY: Well , at least they wo n't be able to track us up here . Not this deep in the vortex .
JAKE: It 's strongest at the Well of Souls , ight ?
TRUDY: Yeah .
JAKE: Good , ` cause that 's where we 're going .
TRUDY: Copy .
JAKE: I 'm gon na get you some help , Grace .
GRACE: Forget it , it does n't matter .
JAKE: No ! The People can help you . I know it .
MO'AT: Wise ancestors who live within Eywa , guide us . Give us a sign .
NORM: Tsu'tey is Olo'eyctan now . He 's not going to let you get near that place .
JAKE: I 've got ta try , Norm .
NEYTIRI: Toruk Macto .
CROWD: Toruk Macto Toruk Macto
NEYTIRI: I See you .
JAKE: I See you .
NEYTIRI: I was afraid Jake for my people . I 'm not any more .
JAKE: Tsu'tey of the Rongloa , son of Ateyo . I stand before you , ready to serve the People . You are Olo'eyctan , and you are the best warrior . I ca n't do this without you .
TSU'TEY: I will fly with you .
JAKE: Ireiyo .
MO'AT: Bring her , Jakesully .
JAKE: Look where we are , Grace .
GRACE: I need to take some samples .
MO'AT: The Great Mother may choose to save all that she is
JAKE: Is that possible ?
MO'AT: Possible , yes . She must pass through the Eye of Eywa and return . But Jakesully she is very weak .
JAKE: Hang on , they 're gon na fix you up .
GRACE: I always held back . But you gave them your heart . I 'm proud of you , Jake .
JAKE: I will .
GRACE: I 'm with her Jake she 's real
JAKE: Grace !
MO'AT: Her wounds were too great , there was not enough time . She is with Eywa now .
JAKE: With your permission , I will Speak now . You would honor me by translating .
QUARITCH: People , you are fighting for survival . There 's an aboriginal horde out there massing for an attack . First slide .
SELFRIDGE: This thing is completely out of control !
QUARITCH: I declared threat condition red . That puts all on-world assets under my command .
SELFRIDGE: You think you can pull this palace coup shit on me ? ! I can have your ass with one call
QUARITCH: You 're a long way from Earth .
SELFRIDGE: You touch me you 're so fired .
MAX: I do n't know how secure this channel is .
JAKE: Talk fast .
MAX: It 's crazy here , Jake . It 's full mobilization . They 're rigging the shuttles as bombers . They 've made up these big pallets of mine explosives . It 's for some kind of shock and awe campaign .
TRUDY: Frickin ' daisycutters .
NORM: Holy shit .
JAKE: Can you talk to Selfridge ? Maybe we can cut some kinda deal before this thing goes all the way .
MAX: No , Quaritch has taken over . He 's olling and there 's no stopping him .
JAKE: When ?
MAX: Oh six hundred tomorrow .
JAKE: Thanks .
NORM: We 're screwed .
TRUDY: You know he 's gon na commit those bombers straight to the Well of Souls .
JAKE: That 's right . Because I gave it to him on a plate .
TRUDY: We both did .
NORM: If he takes out the Well of Souls it 's over . It 's their main line to Eywa , to their ancestors it 'll destroy them .
JAKE: Then I guess we better stop him .
TRUDY: You need to get some rack .
JAKE: Gon na have to settle for coffee .
TRUDY: You know our chances suck .
JAKE: Yeah .
TRUDY: Going up against gunships with bows and arrows
JAKE: What 's your point ?
TRUDY: Right .
JAKE: I 've never done this in my life .
NEYTIRI: Our Great Mother does not take sides . She protects only the balance of life .
JAKE: It was worth a try .
WAINFLEET: Contact . Two hundred meters .
QUARITCH: Fire for effect .
NORM: Jake ! Jake ! We 're falling back !
QUARITCH: Blue team , switch forties . Fire at will .
TROOPERS: Yeah baby ! Get some !
QUARITCH: Blue team , stay with the ground units . Red team , with me . We 're punching fo the main target .
TRUDY: You 're not the only ones with guns , you pricks .
QUARITCH: There it is . Valkyrie One , this is Dragon . Target is in sight .
TROOPER: Target in sight .
JAKE: We have to stop the shuttles , no matte what it takes .
WAINFLEET: I hear this is worse than death for you , chief .
TROOPER: Right flank something 's coming ! It 's all lit up out there .
JAKE: What the hell ?
WAINFLEET: A and C squads rally at my pos . I want Who 's screaming God damn it ? !
MAX: Rogue One , Rogue One , this is Max . Tell Jake we are in motion . Get in there . Barricade the door !
PILOT: Mains to a hundred percent ! Get me airspeed !
GUNSHIP PILOT: Roger that .
QUARITCH: Get back here you worthless pukes !
PILOT: Are we breaking off ?
QUARITCH: What do you think ?
SELFRIDGE: What the hell is going on out there ?
PILOT: Sir , all ground units are falling back to the LZ .
QUARITCH: Stay on target .
PILOT: Arming .
QUARITCH: Let 's see what these blue bastards do when I bitch-slap their goddess .
JAKE: Quaritch is gon na take out the Well of Souls ! He 's got a clear shot . Hit him , anybody that can ! Do it now !
TRUDY: On it .
NORM: No !
TRUDY: Norm , I love you .
TROOPER: Dragon is down . It 's off the board .
SELFRIDGE: What do you mean , off the board ? !
QUARITCH: Nothing 's over while I 'm breathing .
JAKE: Kinda hoped you 'd say that .
QUARITCH: How does it feel to betray your own race ?
TSU'TEY: I See you , Jakesully .
JAKE: I See you , Tsu'tey te Rongloa Ateyitan .
TSU'TEY: Are the people safe ?
JAKE: They 're safe .
TSU'TEY: I can never ride again , or bond with my woman or hear the voice of Eywa . I can not lead the People . You will lead them , Jakesully .
JAKE: No . I 'm not officer material .
TSU'TEY: It is decided . Now do the duty of Olo'eyctan . Set my spirit free .
JAKE: I 'm not killing you .
TSU'TEY: I am already dead .
JAKE: No .
TSU'TEY: It is the way . And it is good . I will be emembered
JAKE: Forgive me , my Brother . Go now to the Mother Spirit .
EMMA: How now brown cow The rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain The quick brown fox jumped ove the lazy
PETER: Ready , darling ?
EMMA: Ready as I 'll ever be
PETER: Anything else ? Valentine smiles , shrugs
VALENTINE: Good luck Peter Emma .
EMMA: Thanks , Valentine Emma gives him a quick peck on the cheek .
PETER: Just a minute , darling . My brother 's a worry wart . I better have a word Valentine
EMMA: One sunny day
VALENTINE: Readings still normal The assistant smiles oddly . FOCUS ON
PETER: Losing control malfunction in thermal chamber for Christ 's Emm !
VALENTINE: Emma , Peter , get out ! It 's going to explode !
EMMA: Peter !
VALENTINE: Do n't wait for him he 's not
PETER: Emma Emma As a GROWLING sound grows till
STEED: Brenda ?
MOTHER: Brenda and I thought we 'd drop in .
BRENDA: See how you 're getting on
STEED: Something in the wind ?
MOTHER: Weather 's turning nasty .
STEED: You did n't come to talk about the weather , surely .
MOTHER: Oh yes I did . I want you to meet somebody . I expect you 'll like her .
STEED: 'Her ' ?
MESSENGER: Dr. Peel ?
EMMA: Thank you
PORTER: May I help you , madam
EMMA: Mr. John Steed , please .
PORTER: I 'm afraid that 's impossible .
EMMA: Impossible ?
PORTER: You are female ?
EMMA: As you see .
PORTER: Then you ca n't come in .
EMMA: I have an appointment .
PORTER: No women . Not in Boodles . Not since 1922 .
EMMA: Really what happened in 1922 ?
STEED: Doctor Peel , I presume ?
EMMA: And you must be Steed . Please do n't get up .
STEED: I was about to throw in the towel .
EMMA: I had a spot of bother at the door .
STEED: I should n't wonder . Not a woman inside Boodles since
EMMA: 1922 . Why the kippers ?
STEED: Red herring would have been too obvious , do n't you think ?
EMMA: So what was all this some sort of test ?
STEED: Congratulations , you 've penetrated a astion of male privilege . I guessed you were n't a stickler for Tradition , doctor .
EMMA: Whereas you are .
STEED: Dyed in the wool . But I can admire someone who does n't play by the ules .
EMMA: Rules are made to be broken .
STEED: Not by me . Play by the rules , Doctor , or the game is nothing .
EMMA: And just what is the game ?
STEED: I say , this is all terribly formal . Must I go an calling you Dr. Peel ?
EMMA: Under the circumstances , you may call me Mrs. Peel .
STEED: Much better .
EMMA: And now that we 've settled the matte of honorifics , will you kindly explain why you wished me to meet you ?
STEED: I did n't . Mother did .
EMMA: Mother ? Steed steps closer , smiling .
STEED: I expect you 'll like him . Off Emma 's reaction
MOTHER: That 's better . I much prefer a womb with view , do n't you , Mrs. Peel ? A delicate CLOCK on the mantel CHIMES FOUR .
EMMA: Do n't tell me You 're the shadow secret service . You 're so hushhush , even the legit secret service knows nothing about it . Am I right ?
MOTHER: Close . We 're so hush-hush , even we know nothing about it . Now let 's see , there 's coconut cake , date and walnut ; I recommend the um baba
EMMA: Hmmm
MOTHER: Looks like rain , Steed
STEED: Showers followed by sunny periods .
EMMA: We 're not here to talk about the weather , surely .
MOTHER: Oh , yes we are .
BRENDA: Macaroon ?
EMMA: Let me guess 'Father ' ?
FATHER: God , you 're quick .
MOTHER: Have a look at these , Mrs. Peel
STEED: Ah From Trubshaw 's . My shoemaker .
EMMA: A kipper . Or a red herring ? What were they investigating ?
FATHER: A series of bizarre shifts in local weathe patterns
STEED: Global warming ?
FATHER: Jungle plants in the Arctic ? A lush English village transformed overnight into African scrubland ? Blizzards in summer ?
EMMA: How curious
MOTHER: Something strange is happening . And whoever knows about it does n't want us to find out .
FATHER: Your mission is simple . Find out how and why these agents died .
EMMA: I 'm no spy where do I fit in ?
MOTHER: Your research into climate engineering was state-of-the-art . Your experiments could have revolutionized our knowledge of global warming had they succeeded . We need your expertise .
STEED: Perhaps I 'd better start calling you docto again , Mrs. Peel Emma hesitates , unsure for the first time
EMMA: I 'm not sure I 'm ready to return to work . I 've been out of action for some time . I 'll consider your proposal . She gets up , ready to go .
FATHER: One moment , Mrs. Peel . There 's anothe special reason we wanted you to join ou happy family ; rather curious , actually
MOTHER: Eye witness reports . Strangers in the area . One description tallied in all three places . Recognize her ?
EMMA: Me , is n't it ?
FATHER: Think of it as special assignment , Mrs. Peel . With a twist . You 're our chief suspect .
EMMA: You 're saying I have no choice .
MOTHER: Father will be your controller . Steed here will show you the ropes .
EMMA: Ropes ?
STEED: Think she really killed those agents ?
MOTHER: She may not know . Theory goes she may be very ill .
STEED: Amnesia ?
MOTHER: Possibly . Split personality
STEED: Insane ?
MOTHER: Who knows ? If Dr . Darling is right , you should watch out .
STEED: Why ?
MOTHER: She may try to kill you .
STEED: Perhaps I ought to talk with Dr . Darling .
DR. DARLING: One key point Mrs. Peel is a widow she 's obsessively devoted to the memory of her husband the scientist Peter Peel . You may find her a little remote .
MOTHER: Something went wrong . System malfunction . Explosion . Mrs. Peel had a narrow escape . Suspected sabotage . Nothing proven . File still open .
STEED: How come you took so much interest in her , Dr . Darling ?
DR. DARLING: Her husband was one of ours .
STEED: Peel ? Did she know ?
MOTHER: Still does n't . Better safe than sorry . She was in a dangerous game , Steed . High stakes . She may prove to be a risk . If
STEED: Anyone particular in mind ?
MOTHER: You .
STEED: You 're a lady of hidden talents , Mrs. Peel Tic-tac
EMMA: I 've no intention of hiding them Tic-tac
STEED: Scientist marksman swordsman To what do you attribute you overachievements ?
EMMA: My father always wanted a boy .
STEED: Really ? I fail to see the connection .
EMMA: I had a feeling you would . Touche !
STEED: I take your point . Emma takes off her mask .
EMMA: Do you ?
STEED: Yes indeed . I need protection .
EMMA: I thought we were on our way .
STEED: Oh , absolutely , but Trubshaw 's a man worth meeting . No point setting out half shod .
EMMA: Or half cocked .
STEED: I could n't agree more . Thank you , Trubshaw .
TRUBSHAW: Very good , Mr. Steed . WIDEN to reveal
EMMA: Steed , we really must be
STEED: Ahh . Perfect fit . The luxury of a hand-made shoe . As unique as a face or a fingerprint . Or should I say DNA ?
EMMA: You can but I wish you would n't
STEED: Thank you , Trubshaw
EMMA: You know what I mean . This ca and you . Nobody walks around like that . Milk ?
STEED: Not all Tradition is bad , Mrs. Peel . No thank you . She hands over a cup .
EMMA: But why ? What 's the point ?
STEED: A Gentleman has to have a code . This is part of mine . A uniform . Think of it as my suit of shining armor .
EMMA: And I suppose you 're the knight .
STEED: The most unpredictable piece on the board . And always ready to protect his queen .
EMMA: That 's predictable . When I find a queen in need of protection I 'll let you know .
STEED: I 'm hoping you will . He puts his foot down . Zoom
EMMA: Sir August Merryweather why are we seeing him first ?
STEED: As per mother 's instructions .
EMMA: Do we always follow Mother 's instructions ?
STEED: For a man in my position
EMMA: Just what is your position , if you do n't mind my asking . How did a stuffed shirt like you get into this line of work ?
STEED: They call me in when they 've reached a dead end . Freelance . Like yourself .
EMMA: I have no choice . Why should you isk your life ?
STEED: After our fencing match , I was rathe hoping you would do the risking . More tea ?
EMMA: No thanks .
STEED: I meant me .
EMMA: June , July August ?
STEED: The family does seem to be somewhat meteorologically inclined .
EMMA: Any other vices ?
STEED: All of a piece , really . A fanatical weatherman . Chairman of BROLLY . British Royal Organisation Fo Lasting Liquid Years . Thinks British weather has been tampered with y aliens . Emma takes this in .
EMMA: So I distract him while you snoop around ? How ?
STEED: Small talk . Try the weather .
EMMA: Original
BUTLER: This way , miss
EMMA: Missus
SIR AUGUST: You do n't get rain like you used to in England . A good shower that 's the ticket . Stiffens resolve , puckers the spirit , quells the namby-pamby in a man .
EMMA: I so agree . How did you acquire a taste for it ?
SIR AUGUST: Out in India . So character-forming for the British . Not the heat . Good Lord , no . The ain , dash it . A good monsoon . Fifteen inches overnight . A whole week of lovely ain . I remember one summer in Jaipur
EMMA: Have we met ?
SIR AUGUST: You mean you do n't recall ? ? Before Emma can reply , the door opens
LADY JUNE: Dear August . Loves his showers . Like a baby . Scones , Mrs. Peel ?
EMMA: Thank you , Lady June
SIR AUGUST: Ah , beautiful . Just as he promised .
EMMA: Promised ? Who promised ?
SIR AUGUST: There , look !
STEED: I say , this is a bit much .
.STEED: Mrs. Peel . Good of you to drop by . And I see you 're wearing your - iding outfit ?
STEED: Manners , Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: You should be dead . How do you feel ?
STEED: Strange .
EMMA: You were very lucky . Four shots to the heart . I found you after I slipped away from Sir August . Mother brought you here . Not me you should thank .
STEED: I was n't about to .
EMMA: I mean your man Trubshaw . You ullet-proof waistcoat . I thought you were just overdressed .
STEED: I might say the same .
EMMA: Mother and Dr . Darling have me under observation . They think I tried to kill you .
STEED: Why should they think that ?
EMMA: You told them . You said I arrived on a camel , shot you four times . Left you for dead .
STEED: Frankly that 's how I remember it .
EMMA: But that 's absurd . I may not be over-fond of you , Steed , but it 's not my style .
STEED: Perhaps your memory plays tricks , Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: That 's possible . Sir August was convinced he 'd met me before . But I 'd never met him . Another odd thing . When it rained , he said it was just as someone had promised .
STEED: Did he say who ?
EMMA: No . But he must know . Incidentally , my double left you with this .
STEED: An invitation . To a 'formal picnic ' ?
EMMA: Did you say formal ? I must dress .
STEED: I must say , you look more you old self
EMMA: You mean my other self
STEED: Either way may I ask why you dress in that fashion ?
EMMA: I should have thought that was obvious I 'm in mourning . She moves off . Stay on his poker face .
STEED: I ca n't wait to see afternoon . He joins her ; they survey the building .
EMMA: Where 's the picnic ? They look up to
STEED: Hm A Veuve-Cliquot '56 But he bites the end of his Monte Cristos ? Clearly , we 're dealing with a maniac . Meanwhile , Emma goes into the
EMMA: How on earth can you tell ?
STEED: Elementary , Mrs. Peel . Trubshaw is n't the only shoemaker still practicing his trade
EMMA: Very good , Steed
STEED: What on earth ?
EMMA: Any ideas ?
STEED: Well , he was a fellow of the Royal Zoological Society
EMMA: Is that written in his shoe ?
STEED: Common knowledge , Mrs. Peel
EMMA: She had this in her mouth . There , there
STEED: Not again . There 's got to be another . way to go about this .
STEED: Now , now ' I ca n't give you anything but love , baby '
MAN: No ! You ca n't
EMMA: Major D'Arcy ?
STEED: For you , Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Thanks I see what you mean about letting me do the risking Hello ? It 's Sir August .
STEED: Ask Mother . Sound OVER RING-RING .
SIR AUGUST: Mrs. Peel ?
EMMA: Where 's Mother ?
FATHER: Mobile HQ . In a blue funk . Ca n't take chances . I 'm looking afte things while he 's hiding out
STEED: We know one thing . That suspect was not Mrs. Peel .
FATHER: So you say
EMMA: You do n't believe him ?
FATHER: It 's Mother you have to convince . He 's very agitated . Wait here .
EMMA: But
STEED: Do n't bother . Here 's a bus
BRENDA: Fares , please ,
MOTHER: Welcome to mobile H.Q . Weather 's turning quite nasty . Sir August was lown to smithereens . Along with half of Banffshire . The Ministry 's worried .
EMMA: He tried to warn us
STEED: We had a lead to Wonderland Weather but we got there too late . Someone tipped them off
MOTHER: Too late anyway . Today 's escapade was only for starters . This is no ordinary weather . It 's manmade . A kind of weather bomb .
STEED: Impossible .
EMMA: Not quite . This is my field .
STEED: Is there anything that is n't ?
EMMA: The Prospero Project was started by my husband . It was an early attempt to solve the problems of global warming . In theory , climate engineering is entirely feasible . We thought of injecting a chemical cocktail into the atmosphere y laser and satellite . A 'quick fix '
STEED: Filling in mother nature 's blind spots ?
EMMA: Exactly . There 'd been earlier attempts to pump carbon dioxide into deep sea . Propane gas mostly . In small quantities it captures chlorine . Protects the ozone layer . But it proved impractical . Too bulky
STEED: But if someone miniaturized the process
EMMA: That 's what we were working on .
STEED: Sounds as if someone 's hijacked your research .
MOTHER: Would it be possible to use it fo military purposes ?
EMMA: Directed by laser . Bounced by satellite . Quite possible .
STEED: Where would they aim for ?
MOTHER: London . The World Council of Ministers meets soon on global defence . If you can control the weather , you control the world .
EMMA: After the cold war
STEED: The hot and cold war
BAILEY: New orders . The penultimate phase . Now fully operational
STEED: Shame . I was recommended . By a friend .
BAILEY: Really ?
STEED: Sir August Merryweather ? I was looking for something relaxing . Say , a Tuscan hillside in June ?
BAILEY: Normally , we 'd be eager to oblige
STEED: Seriously ?
BAILEY: Of course . Natural weather delivered to your door on demand . Down you phoneline . For limited periods .
STEED: You do n't say . How real does it feel ?
BAILEY: As real as you wish . Hot or cold . Humid or dry . Anything you like . Within reason .
STEED: There are limits ?
BAILEY: The technology is brand new . Soon it will be more powerful . We anticipate a huge demand . Leave us your number . We 'll be in touch .
STEED: No need . I 'll call again .
EMMA: Three agents killed by bad weather
STEED: And by you , Mrs. Peel
EMMA: Then a mad millionaire . Head of a secret defense establishment . A group of eccentrics obsessed by weather
STEED: And by you , Mrs. Peel . Everything points to you . No sisters ? No undiscovered twin ?
EMMA: Not that I know of . Explanation ?
STEED: According to Dr . Darling , you 're a psychopathic personality with schizophrenic delusions , suffering from ecurring amnesia based on traumatic epression , leading to outbursts of anti-social and violent behavior . Q.E.D .
EMMA: Is that what you think ?
STEED: Oh , well Just my type , Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Have I trespassed on a male prerogative ? We 're being followed . I saw him at Trubshaw 's
STEED: Turn !
OLD LADY: Are you alright , young man ?
STEED: I think so , thank you so much A SQUEAL of TIRES as -
BAILEY: Reach for the sky , pardner . Steed raises his hands .
OLD LADY: Oh , dear
STEED: I feel sure of it .
OLD LADY: I 'm Alice . Mother said you 'd be on your way . Mrs. Peel with you ?
STEED: She was
OLD LADY: You with Mother or Father ?
STEED: Both , actually .
OLD LADY: Good . Glad to see they 're together at last . They do n't get along . Promotion . Top job . Most unfair . Quite a fuss at the Ministry .
STEED: You do n't say . Like looking for a needle in a
EMMA: Barely .
STEED: You will let me know if you find that queen who 's in need of protection , wo n't you ? He pulls her out . She 's annoyed .
EMMA: This must be the last straw .
STEED: Here 's the one that broke the camel 's back .
EMMA: Someone did n't want us to get to the party .
STEED: I expect we 'll have to gatecrash .
OLD LADY: I may be able to help you .
STEED: Wonderland Weather Ltd .
OLD LADY: This way
EMMA: Aha Yes It 's clear now . A trapezoid shape , dictated by twin diagonal paths and a single curving path . A late Seventeenth Century design , originally fo King William of Orange , copied Ah
STEED: Mrs. Peel ? I think I 'm seeing double again .
EMMA: Steed !
STEED: Mrs. Peel ? Steed hears a noise , turns to see
OLD LADY: It 's a trap . Tell Mother , beware . Tell Father . She dies in his arms . Wind picks up , too .
EMMA: Quite a collection .
PETER: Listen Very much alive .
EMMA: Peter Emma is tempted , yet filled with terror .
PETER: For you all for you
EMMA: Steed !
STEED: Oh , no . First time , shame on you . Third time , shame on me . He slugs her and the SCREEN GOES BLACK .
EMMA: Where am I ?
STEED: The Winslow Home for Retired Lepidoptorists . I 'm so sorry I struck you , Mrs. Peel . Please forgive me . I thought you were someone else
EMMA: Was I ?
STEED: I expect that 's for you to know and me to find out
EMMA: It was Peter I saw him
MOTHER: This man did you see him ?
STEED: No . Her husband , she says . Alice tried to warn us . A trap . Tell Mother beware . Tell Fathe That 's all .
DR. DARLING: I want you to say the first thing that comes into your head when I say these words . Do you understand ? Blue
EMMA: bottle
DR. DARLING: Red
EMMA: head
DR. DARLING: Black
EMMA: death
DR. DARLING: Love
EMMA: death Steed watching , listening
DR. DARLING: Flower
EMMA: power
DR. DARLING: Nature
EMMA: preserve
DR. DARLING: Secret
EMMA: love
DR. DARLING: Hope
EMMA: love
DR. DARLING: Fear
EMMA: love
DR. DARLING: Peter
EMMA: Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers how many pecks of pickled peppers did Peter Peel ?
DR. DARLING: Three days . Emma unlocks her straps . Sits Up . Woozy .
EMMA: Do you get paid by the hour ?
MOTHER: You are here under observation , Mrs. Peel . You must answer Dr . Darling 's questions Pushes Dr . Darling aside .
EMMA: I resign .
MOTHER: You need treatment , Mrs. Peel . You ca n't resign .
EMMA: Watch me .
MOTHER: Do n't open that , Mrs. Peel ! Fat chance she goes in
EMMA: What are you trying to do to me ?
MOTHER: We want to help !
EMMA: I thought I was a widow . My husband the only man I eve loved is dead . For the rest of my life I have to live with that .
MOTHER: The death of Peter Peel was a great loss . To us all
EMMA: To you ?
STEED: I think you owe Mrs. Peel an explanation
MOTHER: Peter Peel was a first class agent . A senior operative . ' X ' department Special operations . He was engaged in top secret research . Top priority . Government approved .
EMMA: The Institute the funding
MOTHER: A cover for us . I 'm sorry
EMMA: So all that time . Our work , our research was for you for this ? And the accident
DARLING: It was no accident .
EMMA: The official investigation
MOTHER: was written by me . It was sabotage , Mrs. Peel . Deadly serious , Emma walks over to him .
EMMA: Who ?
MOTHER: Quite frankly it could have een you .
STEED: You 're accusing Mrs. Peel of killing her own husband ?
MOTHER: Her husband suspected someone very close to the operation . On the day he died , he was setting a test . To prove to himself to us that his wife was beyond suspicion . He had to e certain . He said he was going to give Mrs. Peel something
EMMA: No . Steed notices Emma touch her ring nervously .
DR. DARLING: He said if it vanished , he 'd know it was you who betrayed him . He took a huge risk . The ultimate test .
EMMA: So I 'm still
MOTHER: Under suspicion . Everyone died in the explosion , Mrs. Peel . You were the only survivor
EMMA: To find out who killed my husband .
MOTHER: The doors and walls are monitored , Mrs. Peel . This is a very secure establishment .
EMMA: So am I .
DR. DARLING: She must remain here . She 's highly dangerous .
MOTHER: Pity . I was growing fond of Mrs. Peel . Unfortunately
STEED: Guilty until proven innocent ?
MOTHER: Mother and Father know best .
EMMA: You followed me .
STEED: Orders .
EMMA: To kill me ?
STEED: Nothing personal . Emma smiles . Then turns , and
EMMA: A long way down .
STEED: Careful . You might fall .
EMMA: I could save you the trouble .
STEED: No trouble .
EMMA: Because you always obey orders
STEED: Always . Except
EMMA: Yes ?
STEED: when I do n't . It comes down to one thing , Mrs. Peel . Trust .
EMMA: And do you trust me ?
STEED: I could be convinced , if I knew who poisoned me in the maze . That kiss
EMMA: It was n't me ; you have my word .
STEED: I need proof .
EMMA: Ready ?
STEED: Keeping a stiff upper lip ?
EMMA: Is that all ?
STEED: Not for a moment .
EMMA: You 're playing games .
STEED: Are n't we all , Mrs. Peel ?
EMMA: I thought you played by the rules .
STEED: I thought you did n't .
EMMA: I 'm playing to win .
STEED: Winning is n't everything .
EMMA: Please do n't tell me it 's how you play the game .
STEED: After you Mrs. Peel
EMMA: No , after you .
STEED: You do n't trust me ?
EMMA: As far as you trust me .
STEED: No do n't answer it He pulls her back . Emma looks at him .
CHOIRBOY: It 's your mother .
STEED: Mother ? How did you find me ?
EMMA: You lied .
STEED: I equivocated . But you 're not their big worry at present . It 's Dr . Darling he 's disappeared OFF Emma 's reaction to this news
DR. DARLING: We are in the final phase . I shall require you to be especially obedient . There must be no failures .
STEED: Drat . Someone wants to implicate you in this affair , Mrs. Peel . Any idea who ?
EMMA: No idea who . No idea why
STEED: Teddy bears , cuckoo clocks , toys All children 's things
EMMA: Or grown-ups , who still like to be children .
STEED: Quite . Any childhood friends ? Enemies ?
EMMA: Not to speak of . Peter and I were both loners . There was nobody . Steed thinks ; sighs .
STEED: Very well . I have a friend who might be of assistance . He 's at the Ministry . We 'd better be careful .
EMMA: I 'm a wanted woman , I know
STEED: His name 's Jones . 'Invisible ' Jones .
EMMA: Why 's he called 'Invisible ' ?
STEED: You 'll find out .
EMMA: Are n't you coming ?
STEED: I 'll catch you up . Do n't worry ; he 's expecting you .
EMMA: I see .
STEED: I say , Trubshaw , Steed here Barometer 's falling fast . Mrs. Peel and I find ourselves in need of foul weather gear . Yes , I 'd say gentlemen 's snuff for starters . And then
EMMA: Peter 's brother ? But
STEED: We must hurry , Mrs. Peel
EMMA: Hurry ? What for ? I 'm just now
STEED: You did n't tell her ?
EMMA: Getting to what ?
STEED: There 's a reception this evening . Colonel Jones thinks it advisable we attend .
EMMA: Have we been invited ?
STEED: I had a feeling . That 's why we 're in a hurry Steed proffers an arm to Emma .
EMMA: You may , Mr. Steed .
MOTHER: Inside that hall are some of the Most powerful figures in the world . Tight security . Ou only option .
FATHER: I 'll see to it personally .
STEED: What 's that you 're wearing ?
EMMA: It 's called Black Leather .
STEED: Intoxicating . Here , have one of these . He fumbles with a bulging jacket pocket
EMMA: What is it ?
STEED: Limpet bomb . Small , very compact . From Trubshaw 's .
EMMA: When all this is over , we simply must get you out of that suit .
STEED: You first .
EMMA: Shall we ?
STEED: Snuff . I must insist you try some .
EMMA: 'The Merry Widow ? ' I might have known . Where 's the reception ? They move cautiously forward as
STEED: Oh , hello
FATHER: We want Mrs. Peel .
STEED: Dead , I 'm afraid . Emma in hiding , listens as
FATHER: I shall summon security .
STEED: Bad news . Father 's looking for you . Where are those bloody ministers ?
EMMA: Have a look at this .
STEED: It 's almost May , for heaven sake .
EMMA: Gentlemen , ladies . Forgive the breach of protocol . An emergency
STEED: Quick it 'll protect you
MAN: Goodbye , Mrs. Peel !
EMMA: Anyone ever tell you you look like a housefly ?
MAN: Ca n't you throw her off ?
EMMA: This time the shoe 's on the othe foot . You said a hand-made shoe was as good as a photo-fit o D.N.A. ? Well , all we have to do is find the shoe that fits
TRUBSHAW: It should be easy . A Trubshaw client has his shoes delivered personally . The Ministry should e able to confirm our delivery .
STEED: I 'll be back
EMMA: Where are you going ?
STEED: Laying in supplies , Mrs. Peel weathe may get very nasty and I 've no umbrella
EMMA: You need n't bother . I ca n't drag you further into this . After all , I am still the chief suspect .
STEED: No bother . Mother and Father think I 've joined you . I might as well .
EMMA: But
STEED: Oh , and by the way , I think it 's about time you got rid of that chip on you shoulder .
EMMA: If you 'd been through what I have , you would n't
STEED: A microtag . One of Mother 's little toys . There you are . Free at last .
EMMA: Prince Charming , I presume . Your name is
STEED: Where 's Mrs. Peel ?
TRUBSHAW: She just left , sir . In a hurry .
STEED: What ?
TRUBSHAW: She said you 'd understand .
EMMA: and now ?
BRENDA: Steed for you . Mother grabs the phone , furious .
MOTHER: Where 's Mrs. Peel ?
EMMA: This is n't a game .
VOICE: You and I . Together . But first you must confront your greatest enemy . Who could that be , Mrs. Peel ? The answer is obvious Suddenly lights ! Emma is in a hall of mirrors .
FATHER: Emma in Wonderland . Welcome , Mrs. Peel . We 've been expecting you . We hope you 'll enjoy your stay with us . Decontamination is almost complete .
EMMA: Decontamination ?
FATHER: And you 've a new wardrobe . He does want you to look attractive . He tells me you 're very beautiful . Emma pounds the glass in frustration .
DR. DARLING: Emma , my dear . How lovely you look . He steps out of the rest of his costume
EMMA: Would that I could say the Same .
DR. DARLING: Ah , but you have n't see the real me . Watch closely
EMMA: Peter
PETER: Darling Emma
EMMA: It was you all the time ?
PETER: Not really . Not quite . I 'm afraid you still do n't see
OLD TEACHER: This is where he used to spend his days . We have an old photograph somewhere
TEACHER: Absolute wizard with makeup . His favorite roll from Shakespeare . Prospero
STEED: 'The Prospero Project '
TEACHER: From The Tempest . A banished duke , ousted by his brother , marooned on a magic island . Who controlled the weather .
STEED: ' O Brave New World that hath such people in it . '
EMMA: You .
VALENTINE: Darling Emma yes , we the true genius behind the Prospero Project
EMMA: But you died in the explosion
VALENTINE: A slight miscalculation my face was burned beyond recognition . Fortunately my research into plastics came in handy
EMMA: Dr . Darling , Peter all you
VALENTINE: An unholy trinity
EMMA: You killed my husband .
VALENTINE: For starters . Of course I had to kill the Teddy Bears , as well
EMMA: Too many cooks
VALENTINE: Spoil the majority shareholders . In Wonderland Weather . I planned everything , even the Ministry ecruiting you
EMMA: But I found you . All the clues led me here
VALENTINE: Of course . I planned that , too .
EMMA: But why ?
VALENTINE: You disappoint me , Emma . Ca n't you guess ? For you . It was all for you
EMMA: 'Our revels now are ended . '
VALENTINE: Oh , no , Emma . They 've only just begun
STEED: I said it 's not goodbye yet . Listen , I 'm going to need some help . In a hurry
VALENTINE: Think of this as your second wedding feast
EMMA: I 'm already married
VALENTINE: Come , come , you 're a widow a most attractive widow . Now I think of it , we 'll need a bridesmaid . Here .
EMMA: Valentine , listen to me
VALENTINE: Right , bridesmaid . Now what have I left out ? Oh , yes , I know the ring .
EMMA: Ring ?
VALENTINE: How silly of me let me make you comfortable first
VALENTINE: That 's better . I say , is n't this where you came in ? It 's impenetrable , by the way
EMMA: You 're mad .
VALENTINE: Entirely . On the other hand Mad people get things done . Let me show you
FATHER: Steed
STEED: How did you guess ?
FATHER: You reek of Mrs. Peel 's Black Leather
STEED: It was you who gave Valentine Peel his security clearance you 're the mole who betrayed the Ministry .
FATHER: Mother betrayed me . She was going to replace me with a younge Father . Errand boy that 's all I was . 'Find Steed '
STEED: Well , you found me . Have a sniff of this , why do n't you ? Careful , the scent can be overpowering
VALENTINE: People expect weather to be free . They 're used to it . I call that a denial of freedom . No freedom of choice . An abuse of human rights . They buy water , electricity , gas . Why should n't they be able to buy their own weather if they want to ? If they have a little incentive
EMMA: Such as ?
VALENTINE: Destruction of their local weathe systems . I can zap a thousand Chernobyls into the air .
EMMA: The result would be
VALENTINE: Chaos . Transport paralysis . Crop failure . Economic disaster . Frostbite or sunburn on a massive scale . You 've seen a few samples
EMMA: Then what 's stopping you ?
VALENTINE: One very small thing . A diamond 'cyclone ' chip . A thousand times more information on a fraction of the size . If I possess that , my powers would be unlimited . My dear half-brother was developing it . But he suspected sabotage . He gave the chip to you , 'Mrs . ' Peel . I want you . But also your ring . Valentine takes her by the hand . Kisses
EMMA: How Wagnerian Do you mean to say you 've waited all these years because you could n't create a chip on your own ? That would have amused Peter .
VALENTINE: Speaking of Peter , there 's more good news You wo n't even have to change your last name . You 'll always be Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: What are my choices ?
VALENTINE: Choices ?
EMMA: I 'll never marry you .
VALENTINE: One out of two is n't bad . I 'll keep you alive , darling Emma . In a year or five , you may change your mind . If you 're still in it .
STEED: Blast . What to do ? Mrs. Peel !
EMMA: You must let me go
STEED: Oh , dear .
VALENTINE: Start the countdown . Action stations . Five minutes
FATHER: Congratulations . The clouds are on course
VALENTINE: To explode . London will be ashes .
FATHER: Not yet ! They have n't heard ou terms !
VALENTINE: Are you insane ? Stop the program and you activate the auto-destruct !
FATHER: But all those people ! Valentine strikes her hard
VALENTINE: My cloud ballet ! My cyclone !
MOTHER: Dense cloud formation moving south- west . On course for the center of the city . A fog floating in from the river . The prediction is unstable chemical eaction . Enforce the curfew Emergency stand by !
VALENTINE: My dear . I would n't want you to miss the grand finale
VALENTINE: John Steed .
STEED: Valentine Peel . I see you 've gone ack to using your original face .
VALENTINE: The last one you 'll ever see .
STEED: Perish the thought . Valentine fulls forth a rapier from the wall .
VALENTINE: Did they tell you at Eton that I was fencing champion , too ?
STEED: They said you were a very naughty oy . The fight is on as the numbers grow smaller !
VALENTINE: You 're better than I expected .
STEED: I was at Harrow
VALENTINE: But did they teach you this ?
STEED: Bang-bang you 're dead .
VALENTINE: You wish . He moves to close in , when
STEED: One shot for emergencies .
VALENTINE: That 's not playing by the rules .
STEED: Rules are made to be broken .
VALENTINE: If you say so .
STEED: I do .
VALENTINE: You said one shot .
STEED: Did I ? My mistake .
VALENTINE: I would n't do that , if I were you . Steed turns .
STEED: Mrs. Peel !
VALENTINE: Bullet-proof waistcoats just the thing . I get mine from Trubshaw 's . We 'll be off now , wo n't we , darling ? We would n't want to miss the fireworks . Figure it out if you can , Steed
STEED: You must be joking
VALENTINE: Fool
STEED: That will do .
VALENTINE: Are n't you forgetting about something ?
STEED: You are , and it 's behind you .
VALENTINE: Come , come . You do n't really expect me to fall for
STEED: I think she really likes you Where 's Mrs. Peel ?
VALENTINE: Ugh
STEED: Emma !
EMMA: Steed ? Steed looks back at her surprise , delight .
STEED: Mrs. Peel ?
EMMA: What kept you ?
STEED: The plot . Hello , we must be going
EMMA: Quick !
STEED: 'The owl and the pussycat went to sea - '
EMMA: ' in a beautiful pea green boat '
STEED: A fine night , Mrs. Peel
EMMA: Still a bit chilly
STEED: English weather . You know , afte all we 've been through , I should say we deserve a long holiday
EMMA: Have you any place in mind ?
STEED: As a matter of fact I have
EMMA: I do n't recall Siberia being this warm , Steed .
STEED: It 's the latest thing , Mrs. Peel .
EMMA: Our little paradise just made for two ?
STEED: Not quite .
EMMA: Pity your mother came , too
STEED: Still a little warm , Trubshaw . Is this the '28 ? A little more ice , I think
MOTHER: About your next assignment , Mrs. Peel
EMMA: Next assignment ?
THE END: < /pre pre
NICK FURY: How bad is it ?
SELVIG: Director .
NICK FURY: Is there anything we know for certain ?
SELVIG: Tesseract is misbehaving .
NICK FURY: Is that supposed to be funny ?
SELVIG: No , it 's not funny at all . The Tesseract is not only active , she'smisbehaving .
NICK FURY: How soon until you pull the plug ?
SELVIG: She 's an energy source . If we turn off the power , she turns it back on . If she eaches peak level
NICK FURY: We 've prepared for this , doctor . Harnessing energy from space .
SELVIG: We do n't have the harness . Ou calculations are far from complete . Now she 's throwing off interference , adiation . Nothing harmful , low levels of gamma radiation .
NICK FURY: That can be harmful . Where 's Barton ?
SELVIG: The Hawk ? Up in his nest , as usual .
NICK FURY: Agent Barton , report .
TO SELVIG: Doctor , it 's spiking again .
NICK FURY: At this end ?
LOKI: You have heart .
TURNING: This does n't have to get any messier .
LOKI: Of course it does . I 've come too fa for anything else . I am Loki of Asgard , and I am burdened with glorious purpose .
SELVIG: Loki ? Brother of Thor ?
NICK FURY: We have no quarrel with your people .
LOKI: An ant has no quarrel with a boot .
NICK FURY: You planning to step on us ?
LOKI: I come with glad tidings , of a world made free .
NICK FURY: Free from what ?
LOKI: Freedom . Freedom is life 's great lie . Once you accept that , in your heart
NICK FURY: Yeah , you say peace , I kind of think you mean the other thing .
SELVIG: He 's right . The portal is collapsing in on itself . You got maybe two minutes efore this goes critical .
LOKI: Well , then
NICK FURY: Hill , do you copy ? ! Loki and Barton SHARPLY look at Agent Hill .
WALKIE TALKIE: Director ? Director Fury , do you copy ?
NICK FURY: The Tesseract is with the hostile force . I have men down . Hill ?
WALKIE TALKIE: Roger that .
NICK FURY: Coulson , get back to base . This is a LEVEL SEVEN . As of right now , we are at war . A beat .
WALKIE TALKIE: What do we do ?
LUCHKOV: This is not how I wanted the evening to go .
NATASHA: I know how you wanted this evening to go . Believe me , this is better .
LUCHKOV: I 'd like to know why they sent you to carry out a carrier , a stained glass and other random items .
NATASHA: I thought General Soholob was in charge of the export business .
LUCHKOV: Soholob ? Your reputation is quite a progression . THE FAMOUS BLACK WIDOW . Nothing but a pretty face .
NATASHA: You really think I 'm pretty ?
LUCHKOV: We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks . Tell him , well ,
IN ENGLISH: You may have to write it down .
WEASELLY THUG: Ya ? It 's for you . LUCHKOV takes the phone , pissed .
LUCHKOV: Who the hell is
NATASHA: Are you kidding ? I 'm working !
LUCHKOV: I do n't give everything . Natasha gives him a look .
NATASHA: Look , you ca n't pull me out of this ight now .
ATTENDING WOMAN: What are doing here ? ! Get out ! You should n't be here !
LITTLE GIRL: I have to see the doctor ! It 's my father !
BANNER: Calm down . What 's wrong ?
LITTLE GIRL: My father
BANNER: Is he like them ?
LITTLE GIRL: Please .
BANNER: Should have got paid up front , Banner .
NATASHA: You know , for a man who 's supposed to e avoiding stress , you picked a hell of a place to settle .
BANNER: Avoiding stress is n't the secret .
NATASHA: Then , what is it ? Yoga ?
BANNER: You brought me to the edge of the city , smart . I uh assume the whole place is surrounded ?
NATASHA: Just you and me .
BANNER: And your actress buddy , is she a spy too ? Do they start that young ?
NATASHA: I did .
BANNER: Who are you ?
NATASHA: Natasha Romanoff .
BANNER: Are you here to kill me , Miss Romanoff ? Because that 's not gon na work out fo everyone .
NATASHA: No . No . Of course not . I 'm here on ehalf of SHIELD .
BANNER: SHIELD . How did they find me ?
NATASHA: We never lost you , doctor . We 've kept our distance , even helped keep some other interested parties off you scent .
BANNER: Why ?
NATASHA: Nick Fury seems to trust you . But now I need you to come in .
BANNER: What if I said no ?
NATASHA: I 'll persuade you .
BANNER: And what if the other guy says no ?
NATASHA: You 've been more than a year without an incident . I do n't think you wan na break that streak .
BANNER: I do n't always get what I want .
NATASHA: Doctor , we 're facing a potential global catastrophe .
BANNER: Well , those I actively try to avoid .
NATASHA: This is the Tesseract . It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet .
BANNER: What does Fury want me to do ? Swallow it ?
NATASHA: Well , he wants you to find it . It 's een taken . It emits a gamma signature that 's too weak for us to trace . There 's no one that knows gamma adiation like you do . If there was , that 's where I 'd be .
BANNER: So Fury is n't after the monster ?
NATASHA: Not that he 's told me .
BANNER: And he tells you everything ?
NATASHA: Talk to Fury , he needs you on this .
BANNER: He needs me in a cage ?
NATASHA: No one 's gon na put you in a
NATASHA: Stand down . We 're good here .
BANNER: Just you and me ?
NICK FURY: You ever been in a war , Councilman ? In a firefight ? Did you feel an overabundance of control ?
SHIELD SCIENTIST: This guy is still alive !
NICK FURY: Trouble sleeping ?
STEVE: I slept for seventy years , sir . I think I 've had my fill .
NICK FURY: Then you should be out , celebrating , seeing the world .
STEVE: I went under , the world was at war , I wake up , they say we won . They did n't say what we lost .
NICK FURY: We 've made some mistakes along the way . Some very recently .
STEVE: You here with a mission , sir ?
NICK FURY: I am .
STEVE: Trying to get me back in the world ?
NICK FURY: Trying to save it .
STEVE: Hydra 's secret weapon .
NICK FURY: Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you . He thought what we think , the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy . That 's something the world sorely needs .
STEVE: Who took it from you ?
NICK FURY: He 's called Loki . He 's not from around here . There 's a lot we 'll have to bring you up to speed on if you 're in . The world has gotten even stranger than you already know .
STEVE: At this point , I doubt anything would surprise me .
NICK FURY: Ten bucks says you 're wrong . There 's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment .
STEVE: You should have left it in the ocean .
TONY: You 're good on this end . The rest is up to you .
PEPPER POTTS: You disconnected the transition lines ? Are we off the grid ?
TONY: Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy .
PEPPER: Wow . So maybe our reactor takes ove and it actually works ?
TONY: I assume . Light her up .
PEPPER: How does it look ?
TONY: Like Christmas , but with more me .
PEPPER: Got ta go wider on the public awareness campaign . You need to do some press . I can do some more tomorrow . I 'm working on the zoning for the next billboards .
TONY: Pepper , you 're killing me . Remember ? Enjoy the moment .
PEPPER: Then get in here and I will .
JARVIS: Sir , Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line .
TONY: I 'm not in . I 'm actually out .
JARVIS: Sir , I 'm afraid he 's insisting .
TONY: Close the line Jarvis . I got a date .
PEPPER: Levels are holding steady I think .
TONY: Of course they are , I was directly involved . Which brings me to my next question how does it feel to be a genius ?
PEPPER: Well , ha , I really would n't know now , would I ?
TONY: What do you mean ? All this came from you .
PEPPER: No . All this came from that . Points to the energy in his chest plate .
TONY: Give yourself some credit , please . Stark Tower is your baby . Give yourself twelve percent of the credit .
PEPPER: Twelve percent ?
TONY: An argument can be made for fifteen .
PEPPER: Twelve percent ? For my baby ?
TONY: Well , I did do all the heavy lifting . Literally , I lifted the heavy things . And sorry , but the security snafu ? That was on you .
PEPPER: Oooooh .
TONY: My private elevator
PEPPER: You mean OUR elevator ?
TONY: was teeming with sweaty workmen . I 'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later , are n't I ?
PEPPER: Not gon na be that subtle .
TONY: I 'll tell you what . Next building 's gon na say 'Potts ' on the tower .
PEPPER: On the lease .
TONY: Call your mom , can you bunk over ?
JARVIS: Sir , the telephone . I 'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten .
TONY: You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark , please leave a message .
TO PEPPER: That 's on you .
PEPPER: Phil ! Come in .
TONY: Phil ? Uh , his first name is Agent .
PEPPER: Come on in , we 're celebrating .
TONY: Which is why he ca n't stay .
STARK: Soon as possible .
TONY: I do n't like being handed things .
PEPPER: That 's alright , ` cause I love to be handed things . So , let 's trade .
TONY: Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday .
PEPPER: Is this about The Avengers ? Which II know nothing about .
TONY: The Avengers Initiative was scrapped , I thought . And I did n't even qualify .
PEPPER: I did n't know that either .
TONY: Yeah , apparently I 'm volatile , self- obsessed , do n't play well with others .
PEPPER: That I did know .
TONY: Whatever . Miss Potts , got a minute ?
PEPPER: I was having twelve percent of a moment . This seems serious , Phil 's pretty shaken .
TONY: How did you notice ? Why is he Phil ?
PEPPER: What is all of this ?
TONY: This is , uh
PEPPER: I 'm going to take the jet to D.C. tonight .
TONY: Tomorrow .
PEPPER: You 've got homework . You 've got a lot of homework .
TONY: Well , what if I did n't ?
PEPPER: If you did n't ?
TONY: Yeah .
PEPPER: You mean if you finished ? Well , umthen
TONY: Square deal . It 's the last date . Pepper kisses him .
PEPPER: Work hard .
PILOT: We 're about forty minutes out from ase , sir .
STEVE: So , this Doctor Banner was trying to eplicate the serum that was used on me ?
THE OTHER: The Chitauri grow restless .
LOKI: Let them go at themselves . I will lead them into glorious battle .
THE OTHER: Battle ? Against the meager might of Earth ?
LOKI: Glorious , not lengthy . If your force is as formidable as you claim .
THE OTHER: You question us ? You question HIM ? He , who put the scepter in your hand , who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out , defeated ?
LOKI: I was a king ! The rightful king of Asgard ! Betrayed !
THE OTHER: Your ambition is little , born of childish need . We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil .
LOKI: You do n't have the Tesseract yet .
THE OTHER: You will have your war , Asgardian . If you fail , if the Tesseract is kept from us , there will be no realm , no barren moon , no crevice where he ca n't find you . You think you know pain ? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain .
STEVE: Ma'am ?
NATASHA: Hi .
TO COULSON: They need you on the bridge . Face time .
NATASHA: There was quite the buzz around here , finding you in the ice . I thought Coulson was gon na swoon . Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet ?
STEVE: Trading cards ?
NATASHA: They 're vintage , he 's very proud .
STEVE: Dr . Banner .
BANNER: Oh , yeah . Hi . They told me you 'd be coming .
STEVE: Word is you can find the cube .
BANNER: Is that the only word on me ?
STEVE: Only word I care about .
BANNER: Must be strange for you , all of this .
STEVE: Well , this is actually kind of familiar .
NATASHA: Gentlemen , you may wan na step inside in a minute . It 's gon na get a little hard to breath .
STEVE: Is this is a submarine ?
BANNER: Really ? They wanted me in a submerged pressurized metal container ?
NICK FURY: Good . Let 's vanish .
BANNER: Thanks for asking nicely . So , uh how long am I staying ?
NICK FURY: Once we get our hands on the Tesseract , you 're in the clear .
BANNER: Where are you with that ?
NATASHA: That 's still not gon na find them in time .
BANNER: You have to narrow the field . How many spectrometers do you have access to ?
NICK FURY: How many are there ?
BANNER: Call every lab you know , tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays . I 'll ough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition . At least we could ule out a few places . Do you have somewhere for me to work ?
NICK FURY: Agent Romanoff , would you show Dr.Banner to his laboratory , please .
NATASHA: You 're gon na love it , Doc . We got all the toys .
SELVIG: Put it over there !
TO BARTON: Where did you find all these people ?
SELVIG: Yeah , iridium . It 's found in meteorites , it forms anti-protons . It 's very hard to get hold of .
LOKI: I know . What did it show you , Agent Barton ?
STEVE: No , no . It 's fine .
NICK FURY: Captain , you 're up . Steve nods . Leaves .
LOKI: Kneel before me .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: You know , the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else , we ended up disagreeing .
STANDING UP: The soldier . A man out of time .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I 'm not the one who 's out of time .
NATASHA: Loki , drop the weapon and stand down .
LOKI: Kneel .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Not today !
NATASHA: The guy 's all over the place .
IRON MAN: Agent Romanoff , did you miss me ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Mr. Stark .
IRON MAN: Captain .
NATASHA: Not a word .
STEVE: I do n't like it .
TONY: What ? Rock of Ages giving up so easily ?
STEVE: I do n't remember it being ever that easy . This guy packs a wallop .
TONY: Still , you are pretty spry , for an older fellow . What 's your thing ? Pilates ?
STEVE: What ?
TONY: It 's like calisthenics . You might have missed a couple things , you know , doing time as a Capsicle .
STEVE: Fury did n't tell me he was calling you in .
TONY: Yeah , there 's a lot of things Fury does n't tell you .
NATASHA: Where 's this coming from ?
STEVE: What 's the matter ? Scared of a little lightning ?
LOKI: I 'm not overly fond of what follows .
IRON MAN: Now there 's that guy .
NATASHA: Another Asgardian ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Think the guy 's a friendly ?
IRON MAN: Does n't matter . If he frees Loki o kills him , the Tesseract 's lost .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark , we need a plan of attack !
IRON MAN: I have a plan . Attack .
NATASHA: I 'd sit this one out , Cap .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I do n't see how I can .
NATASHA: These guys come from legends , they 're asically gods .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: There 's only one God , ma'am . And I 'm pretty sure he does n't dress like that . Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet .
THOR: Where is the Tesseract ?
LAUGHS: I missed you too .
THOR: Do I look to be in a gaming mood ? !
LOKI: Oh , you should thank me . With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here ? Your precious Earth .
THOR: I thought you dead .
LOKI: Did you mourn ?
THOR: We all did . Our father
LOKI: Your father . He did tell you my true parentage , did he not ?
THOR: We were raised together , we played together , we fought together . Do you emember none of that ?
TURNS AROUND: I remember a shadow . Living in the shade of your greatness . I remember you tossing me into an abyss . I was and should be king !
THOR: So you take the world I love as ecompense for your imagined slights . No , the Earth is under my protection , Loki .
LAUGHS: And you 're doing a marvelous job with that . The humans slaughter each othe in droves , while you idly threat . I mean to rule them . And why should I not ?
THOR: You think yourself above them .
LOKI: Well , yes .
THOR: Then you miss the truth of ruling , other . Throne would suit you ill .
LOKI: I 've seen worlds you 've never known about ! I have grown , Odinson , in my exile ! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract , and when I wield it
THOR: Who showed you this power ? Who controls the would-be-king ?
LOKI: I am a king !
THOR: Not here ! You give up the Tesseract ! You give up this poisonous dream ! You come home .
LOKI: I do n't have it . You need the cube to ing me home , but I 've sent it off I know not where . Mjlnir flies back to his grasp .
THOR: You listen well , brother . I
LOKI: I 'm listening .
THOR: Do not touch me again !
TONY: Then do n't take my stuff .
THOR: You have no idea what you 're dealing with .
TONY: Shakespeare in the park ? Doth mothe know you weareth her drapes ?
THOR: This is beyond you , metal man . Loki will face Asgardian justice !
TONY: He gives up the Cube , he 's all yours . Until then , stay out of my way tourist .
JARVIS: Power at 400 % capacity .
TONY: How about that ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Hey ! That 's enough ! Now , I do n't know what you plan on doing here .
THOR: I 've come here to put an end to Loki 's schemes !
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Then prove it ! Put the hammer down .
IRON MAN: Um , yeah , no ! Bad call ! He loves his hammer !
TO CAP: You want me to put the hammer down ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are we done here ?
NICK FURY: In case it 's unclear . You try to escape . You so much as scratch that glass .
SMIRKING: It 's an impressive cage . Not built , I think , for me .
NICK FURY: Built for something a lot stronger than you .
LOKI: Oh , I 've heard . Loki looks into the camera .
NICK FURY: How desperate am I ? You threaten my world with war . You steal a force you ca n't hope to control .
LOKI: Ooh . It burns you to come so close . To have the Tesseract , to have power , unlimited power . And for what ? A warm light for all mankind to share , and then to be reminded what real power is .
SMILING: Well , you let me know if Real Powe wants a magazine or something .
BANNER: He really grows on you , does n't he ?
STEVE: Loki 's gon na drag this out . So , Thor , what 's his play ?
COMING TOO: He has an army called the Chitauri . They 're not of Asgard or any world known . He means to lead them against your people . They will win him the earth . In return , I suspect , for the Tesseract .
SERIOUSLY: An army ? From outer space ?
BANNER: So he 's building another portal . That 's what he needs Erik Selvig for .
THOR: Selvig ?
BANNER: He 's an astrophysicist .
THOR: He 's a friend .
NATASHA: Loki has him under some kind of spell , along with one of ours .
STEVE: I wan na know why Loki let us take him . He 's not leading an army from here .
BANNER: I do n't think we should be focusing on Loki . That guy 's brain is a bag full of cats , you could smell crazy on him .
THOR: Have care how you speak . Loki is beyond eason , but he is of Asgard , and he 's my brother .
NATASHA: He killed eighty people in two days .
THOR: He 's adopted .
BANNER: Iridium , what did they need the Iridium for ?
TONY: It 's a stabilizing agent . ( walks in with Coulson ; to
COULSON: I 'll fly you there . Keep the love alive . Means the portal wo n't collapse on itself , like it did at SHIELD .
TO THOR: No hard feelings , Point Break . You 've got a mean swing . Also , it means the portal can open as wide , and stay open as long , as Loki wants .
TO CREW: Uh , raise the mid-mast , ship the top sails . That man is playing GALAGA ! Thought we would n't notice . But we did . ( covering his eye , looks
AROUND: How does Fury do this ?
TONY: Well , that sounds exhausting . The rest of the raw materials , Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily . Only major component he still needs is a power source . A high energy density , something to kick start the cube .
STEVE: Does Loki need any particular kind of power source ?
BANNER: He 's got to heat the cube to a hundredand twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier .
TONY: Unless , Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect .
BANNER: Well , if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reacto on the planet .
TONY: Finally , someone who speaks English .
STEVE: Is that what just happened ?
TONY: It 's good to meet you , Dr . Banner . You 're work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled . And I 'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster .
LOOKS DOWN: Thanks .
WALKING IN: Dr . Banner is only here to track the cube . I was hoping you might join him .
STEVE: Let 's start with that stick of his . It may be magical , but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon .
NICK FURY: I do n't know about that , but it is powered by the cube . And I 'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys .
THOR: Monkeys ? I do not understand .
STEVE: I do ! I understood that reference .
TONY: Shall we play , doctor ?
BANNER: Let 's play some .
TONY: If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster , we can clock this around six hundred teraflops .
BANNER: All I packed was a tooth brush .
SMILES: You know , you should come by STARK TOWERS sometime . Top ten floors , all R & D . You 'd love it , it 's candy land .
BANNER: Thanks , but the last time I was in New York I kind of brokeHarlem .
TONY: Well , I promise a stress free environment . No tension . No surprises .
TONY: Nothing ?
TO BANNER: Hey ! Are you nuts ?
TONY: You really have got a lid on it , have n't you ? What 's your secret ? Mellow jazz ? Bongo drums ? Huge bag of weed ?
STEVE: Is everything a joke to you ?
TONY: Funny things are .
STEVE: Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship is n't funny . No offense , doctor .
BANNER: No , it 's alright . I would n't have come aboard if I could n't handle pointy things .
TONY: You 're tiptoeing , big man . You need to strut .
STEVE: And you need to focus on the problem , Mr. Stark .
TONY: You think I 'm not ? Why did Fury call us and why now ? Why not before ? What is n't he telling us ? I ca n't do the equation unless I have all the variables .
STEVE: You think Fury 's hiding something ?
TONY: He 's a spy . Captain , he 's the spy . His secrets have secrets . It 's bugging him too , is n't it ?
BANNER: UhI just wan na finish my work here and
STEVE: Doctor ? A beat .
BANNER: ' A warm light for all mankind , Loki 's jab at Fury about the cube .
STEVE: I heard it .
BANNER: Well , I think that was meant for you . Even if Barton did n't post that all over the news .
STEVE: The Stark Tower ? That big ugly building in New York ?
BANNER: It 's powered by Stark Reactors , self- sustaining energy source . That building will run itself for what , a year ?
TONY: That 's just the prototype . I 'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now .
BANNER: So , why did n't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project ? I mean , what are they doing in the energy business in the first place ?
TONY: I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes eaking into all of SHIELD 's secure files .
STEVE: I 'm sorry , did you say ?
TONY: Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge . In a few hours we 'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has eve tried to hide . Blueberry ?
STEVE: Yet you 're confused about why they did n't want you around ?
TONY: An intelligence organization that fears intelligence ? Historically , not possible .
STEVE: I think Loki 's trying to wind us up . This is a man who means to start a war , and if do n't stay focused , he 'll succeed . We have orders , we should follow them .
TONY: Following is not really my style .
SMILING: And you 're all about style , are n't you ?
TONY: Of the people in this room , which one is ; A. wearing a spangly outfit , and B. not of use ?
BANNER: Steve , tell me none of this smells a little funky to you ?
STEVE: Just find the cube .
TONY: That 's the guy my dad never shut up about ? Wondering if they should n't have kept him on ice .
BANNER: The guy 's not wrong about Loki . He does have the jump on us .
TONY: What he 's got is an ACME dynamite kit .
BANNER: And I 'll read all about it .
TONY: Uh-huh . Or you 'll be suiting up like the rest of us .
BANNER: Ah , see . I do n't get a suit of armor . I 'm exposed , like a nerve . It 's a nightmare .
TONY: You know , I 've got a cluster of shrapnel , trying every second to crawl its way into my heart . This stops it . This little circle of light . It 's part of me now , not just armor . It 's a terrible privilege .
BANNER: But you can control it .
TONY: Because I learned how .
BANNER: It 's different .
TONY: Hey , I 've read all about your accident . That much gamma exposure should have killed you .
BANNER: So you 're saying that the Hulk the other guy saved my life ?
A BEAT: I guess we 'll find out .
BANNER: You might not like that .
TONY: You just might .
THOR: Thank you . It 's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig . I dread what he plans fo him once he 's done . Erik is a good man .
WALKING IN: You think you can make Loki tell us what the Tesseract is ?
THOR: I do not know . Loki 's mind is fa afield , it 's not just power he craves , it 's vengeance upon me . There 's no pain that would prize his need from him .
NICK FURY: A lot of guys think that , until the pain stops .
THOR: What are you asking me to do ?
NICK FURY: I 'm asking . What are you prepared to do ?
THOR: Loki is a prisoner .
NICK FURY: Then why do I feel like he 's the only person on this boat that wants to be here ? Thor does n't answer .
LOKI: There 's not many people that can sneak up on me . ( turns to see NATASHA
NATASHA: But you figured I 'd come .
LOKI: After . After whatever tortures Fury can concoct , you would appear as a friend , as a balm . And I would cooperate .
NATASHA: I wan na know what you 've done to Agent Barton .
LOKI: I 'd say I 've expanded his mind .
NATASHA: And once you 've won . Once you 're king of the mountain . What happens to his mind ?
LOKI: Is this love , Agent Romanoff ?
NATASHA: Love is for children . I owe him a debt .
SITTING DOWN: Tell me .
NATASHA: ( she pulls up a chair as
WELL: Before I worked for SHIELD , I uhwell , I made a name for myself . I have a very specific skillset . I did n't care who I used it for , or on . I got on SHIELD 's radar in a bad way . Agent Barton was sent to kill me , he made a different call .
LOKI: And what will you do if I vow to spare him ?
NATASHA: Not let you out .
LAUGHS: Ah , no . But I like this . Your world in the balance , and you bargain for one man ?
NATASHA: Regimes fall every day . I tend not to weep over that , I 'm Russian or was .
LOKI: What is it you want ?
NATASHA: It 's really not that complicated . I 've got red in my ledger , I 'd like to wipe it out .
LOKI: Can you ? Can you wipe out that much ed ? DRAKOV 'S daughter ? SO PAULO ? THE HOSPITAL FIRE ? Barton told me everything . Your ledger is dripping , it 's gushing red , and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything ?
STANDING; ANGRY: This is the basest sentimentality . This is a child at prayer PATHETIC !
LOKI: I wo n't touch Barton . Not until I make him kill you ! Slowly . Intimately . In every way he knows you fear ! And when he 'll wake just long enough to see his good work , and when he screams , I 'll split his skull ! This is my bargain , you mewling quim !
QUIETLY; DISTRAUGHT: You 're a monster .
LAUGHS: No , you brought the monster .
NATASHA: So , Banner that 's your play .
STAGGERED: What ?
ON EARPIECE: Loki means to unleash the Hulk . Keep Banner in the lab , I 'm on my way . Send Thor as well .
TO LOKI: Thank you for your cooperation .
ANGRY: What are you doing , Mr. Stark ?
TONY: Uhkind of been wondering the same thing about you .
NICK FURY: You 're supposed to be locating the Tesseract .
BANNER: We are . The model 's locked and we 're sweeping for the signature now . When we get a hit , we 'll have the location within half a mile .
TONY: And you 'll get your cube back , no muss , no fuss . What is PHASE 2 ?
STEVE: PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons .
TO TONY: Sorry , the computer was moving a little slow .
NICK FURY: Rogers , we gathered everything related to the Tesseract . This does not mean that we 're
TONY: I 'm sorry , Nick .
STEVE: I was wrong , director . The world has n't changed a bit .
BANNER: Did you know about this ?
NATASHA: You wan na think about removing yourself from this environment , doctor ?
BANNER: I was in Calcutta , I was pretty well emoved .
NATASHA: Loki 's manipulating you .
BANNER: And you 've been doing what exactly ?
NATASHA: You did n't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you .
BANNER: Yes , and I 'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy . I 'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction .
NICK FURY: Because of him .
STUNNED: Me ?
NICK FURY: Last year earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town . We learned that not only are we not alone , but we are hopelessly , hilariously , outgunned .
THOR: My people want nothing but peace with your planet .
NICK FURY: But you 're not the only people out there , are you ? And , you 're not the only threat . The world 's filling up with people who ca n't be matched , they ca n't be controlled .
STEVE: Like you controlled the cube ?
THOR: You 're work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it , and his allies . It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war .
STEVE: A higher form ?
NICK FURY: You forced our hand . We had to come up with something .
TONY: Nuclear deterrent . ` Cause that always calms everything right down .
NICK FURY: Remind me again how you made you fortune , Stark ?
NICK FURY: Excuse me , did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up ?
THOR: Did you always give your champions such mistrust ?
NATASHA BANNER: Are you all really that Captain America is on
TONY STEVE: I swear to God , Stark , one You 're on that list ? Are you more crack above or below angry bees ? Threatening ! I feel threatened !
BARTON: Arms to ammunition , over .
THOR: You speak of control , yet you court chaos .
BANNER: It 's his M.O. , is n't it ? I mean , what are we , a team ? No , no , no . We 're a chemical mixture that makes chaos . We 're we 're a time-bomb .
NICK FURY: You need to step away .
TONY: Why should n't the guy let off a little steam ?
STEVE: You know damn well why ! Back off !
TONY: Oh , I 'm starting to want you to make me .
STEVE: Big man in a suit of armor . Take that off , what are you ?
TONY: Genius , billionaire , playboy , philanthropist .
STEVE: I know guys with none of that worth ten of you . Yeah , I 've seen the footage .
TONY: I think I would just cut the wire .
SMILING: Always a way out You know , you may not be a threat , but you better stop pretending to be a hero .
TONY: A hero ? Like you ? You 're a lab rat , Rogers . Everything special about you came out of a bottle !
STEVE: Put on the suit , let 's go a few rounds . Thor laughs at them .
THOR: You people are so petty and tiny . Tony rubs his head . Moves away from Cap .
BANNER: Yeah , this is a tee
NICK FURY: Agent Romanoff , would you escort Dr.Banner back to his
BANNER: Where ? You rented my room .
NICK FURY: The cell was just in case
BANNER: In case you needed to kill me , but you ca n't ! I know ! I tried !
A BEAT: I got low . I did n't see an end , so I put a bullet in my mouth and the othe guy spit it out ! So I moved on . I focused on helping other people . I was good , until you dragged me back into this freak show and put everyone here at risk !
BANNER: You wan na know my secret , Agent Romanoff ? You wan na know how I stay calm ?
STEVE: Doctor Banner put down the scepter .
TONY: Got it .
BANNER: Sorry , kids . You do n't get to see my little party trick after all .
THOR: Located the Tesseract ?
TONY: I can get there faster .
STEVE: Look , all of us
THOR: The Tesseract belongs on Asgard , no human is a match for it . Tony turns to leave , but Steve stops him .
STEVE: You 're not going alone !
TONY: You gon na stop me ?
STEVE: Put on the suit , let 's find out .
TONY: I 'm not afraid to hit an old man .
STEVE: Put on the suit .
BANNER: Oh , my God !
STEVE: Put on the suit !
TONY: Yep !
NICK FURY: Hill ? !
GALAGA PLAYER: Turbine 's loose . Mostly intact , but it 's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we 're in the air .
NICK FURY: Stark ! You copy that ? !
BARTON: Get that engine down ! Detention ! Get him through the dark ! Come with me .
TONY: Find engine three . I 'll meet you there .
NATASHA: Doctor Bruce , you got ta fight it . This is just what Loki wants . We 're gon na be okay . Listen to me .
BANNER: Your life ?
PLEADING: Bruce .
NICK FURY: Bring the carrier inwards and head south . Take us to the water .
HELMSMAN: Why water ? Navigations recalibrated after the engine failure .
NICK FURY: Is the sun coming up ? !
HELMSMAN: Yes , sir .
NICK FURY: Then put it on the left ! Get us ove water ! One more turbine goes down and we drop .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark , I 'm here !
TONY: Good . See what we got .
IRON MAN: I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: It seems to run on some form of electricity .
IRON MAN: Well , you 're not wrong .
THOR: We are not your enemies , Banner ! Try to think !
TONY: Even if I clear the rotors , this thing wo n't re-engage without a jump . I 'm gon na have to get in there and push .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Well if that thing gets up to speed , you 'll get shredded !
TONY: Then stay in the control unit and everse polarity long enough to disengage mag
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Speak English !
TONY: See that red lever ? It 'll slow the otors down long enough for me to get out . Stand by it , wait for my word .
NICK FURY: We need a full evac on the lower hanga ay .
NATASHA: This is Agent Romanoff . I copy . Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton .
IRON MAN: Yeah . Noticed .
LOKI: Are you ever not going to fall fo that ?
CONTROL PANEL: The humans think us immortal . Should we test that ?
THOR: Nooo !
BARTON: Natasha Natasha COLDCOCKS him . Barton is out .
TURNING: Am I ?
LOKI: Your heroes are scattered , you floating fortress falls from the skywhere is my disadvantage ?
TONY: Cap , I need the lever !
NICK FURY: Just stay awake . EYES ON ME !
A BEAT: Yes , we were going to build an arsenal with the Tesseract . I never put all my chips on that number though , because I was playing something even riskier . There was an idea , Stark knows this , called THE AVENGERS INITIATIVE . The idea was to bring together a group of emarkable people , see if they could ecome something more . See if they could work together when we needed them to , to fight the battles that we neve could . Phil Coulson died still elieving in that idea , in heroes .
NICK FURY: Well , it 's an old fashioned notion .
SECURITY GUARD: You fell out of the sky .
COMING TO: Did I hurt anybody ?
SECURITY GUARD: There 's nobody around here to get hurt . You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though .
BANNER: Lucky .
SECURITY GUARD: Or just good aim . You were awake when you fell .
BANNER: You saw ?
SECURITY GUARD: The whole thing , right through the ceiling . Big and green and buck ass nude . Here
BANNER: Thank you . A beat .
SECURITY GUARD: Are you an alien ?
BANNER: What ?
SECURITY GUARD: From outer space , an alien ?
BANNER: No .
SECURITY GUARD: Well then , son , you 've got a condition .
NATASHA: Clint , you 're gon na be alright .
NATASHA: I 've been compromised . I got red in my ledger . I 'd like to wipe it out .
STEVE: Was he married ?
TONY: No . There was a uhcellist , I think .
STEVE: I 'm sorry . He seemed like a good man .
TONY: He was an idiot .
STEVE: Why ? For believing ?
TONY: For taking on Loki alone .
STEVE: He was doing his job .
TONY: He was out of his league . He should have waited . He should have
STEVE: Sometimes there is n't a way out , Tony .
WALKS AWAY: Right . How did that work for him ?
STEVE: Is this the first time you 've lost a soldier ?
TONY: WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS ! I am not marching to Fury 's fife !
STEVE: Neither am I ! He 's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does . Right now we 've got to put that aside and get this done . Now Loki needs a powe source , if we can put together a list
TONY: ( looking at the blood stained
WALL: He made it personal .
STEVE: That 's not the point .
TONY: That is the point . That 's Loki 's point . He hit us all right where we live . Why ?
STEVE: To tear us apart .
TONY: He had to conquer his greed , but he knows he has to take us out to win , ight ? That 's what he wants . He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it . He wants an audience .
STEVE: Right , I caught his act at Stuttengard .
TONY: Yeah . That 's just a preview , this is opening night . Loki 's a full-tilt diva . He wants flowers , he wants parades , he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered
PAUSE: Sonofabitch !
STEVE: Time to go .
NATASHA: Go where ?
STEVE: I 'll tell you on the way . Can you fly one of those jets ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Son just do n't .
NICK FURY: Agent Hill ?
JARVIS: Sir , I took off the arc reactor . The device is already self-sustained .
TONY: Shut it down , Dr. Selvig .
SELVIG: It 's too late ! It ca n't stop now . He wants to show us something ! A new universe .
IRON MAN: Okay .
JARVIS: The barrier is pure energy . It 's unbreachable . The Mark VII is not ready to be deployed .
TONY: Skip the spinning rims . We 're on the clock .
LOKI: Please tell me you 're going to appeal to my humanity .
TONY: Uhactually , I 'm planning to threaten you .
LOKI: You should have left your armor on fo that .
TONY: Yeah , it 's seen a bit of mileage . You 've got the blue stick of destiny . Would you like a drink ?
LOKI: Stalling me wo n't change anything .
TONY: No , no , no ! Threatening . No drink ? You sure ? I 'm having one .
LOKI: The CHITAURI are coming , nothing will change that . What have I to fear ?
LOKI: Yes , I 've met them .
SMILING: Yeah , takes us a while to get any traction , I 'll give you that one .
LOKI: That was the plan .
TONY: Not a great plan . When they come , and they will , they 'll come for you .
LOKI: I have an army .
TONY: We have a HULK .
LOKI: I thought the beast had wandered off .
TONY: You 're missing the point . There 's no throne , there is no version of this , where you come out on top . Maybe you army comes and maybe it 's too much fo us , but it 's all on you . Because if we ca n't protect the Earth , you can be damned well sure we 'll avenge it .
LOKI: How will your friends have time fo me , when they 're so busy fighting you ?
TONY: Well , performance issues . You know ?
LOKI: You will all fall before me .
IRON MAN: And there 's one other person you pissed off ! His name was Phil .
TONY: Right . Army .
THOR: Loki ! Turn off the Tesseract or I 'll destroy it !
LOKI: You ca n't . There is no stopping it . There is only the war !
THOR: So be it .
IRON MAN: What , did you stop for drive-thru ? Swing up PARK , I 'm gon na lay 'em out for you .
JARVIS: Sir , we have more incoming .
TONY: Fine . Let 's keep them occupied . IRON MAN heads back to the portal .
HAWKEYE: Yeah .
BLACK WIDOW: See them .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark , are you seeing this ?
TONY: I 'm seeing , still working on believing . Where 's Banner ? Has he shown up yet ?
THOR: Look at this ! Look around you ! You think this madness will end with you ule ?
LOKI: It 's too late . It 's too late to stopit .
THOR: No . We can . Together .
LOKI: Sentiment .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Those people need assistance down there .
BLACK WIDOW: We got this . It 's good . Go !
AT HAWKEYE: You think you can hold them off ?
HAWKEYE: Captain . ( pulls a trigger on his bow ; a narrow is mechanically
CHOSEN: It would be my genuine pleasure .
BLACK WIDOW: Just like BUDAPEST all over again !
HAWKEYE: You and I remember Budapest verydifferently .
YOUNG COP: We need to get out ! They got ta bring the National Guard !
POLICE SERGEANT: National Guard ? Does the army know what 's happening here ?
YOUNG COP: Do we ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I need men in these buildings . There are people inside that can run into the line of fire . You take them through the asement or through the subway . You keep them off the streets . I need a perimeter as far back as 39th .
POLICE SERGEANT: Why the hell should I take orders from you ?
TO JARVIS: We got his attention . What the hell is step two ? ! IRON MAN flies away .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: What 's the story upstairs ?
THOR: The powers surrounding the cube is impenetrable .
BLACK WIDOW: How do we do this ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: As a team .
THOR: I have unfinished business with Loki .
HAWKEYE: Yeah , get in line .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Save it . Loki 's gon na keep this fight focused on us and that 's what we need . Without him these things could run wild . We got Stark up top , he 's gon na need us
BANNER: So , this all seems horrible .
BLACK WIDOW: I 've seen worse .
BANNER: Sorry .
BLACK WIDOW: No . We could use a little worse .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark ? We got him .
TONY: Then tell him to suit up . I 'm bringing the party to you .
BLACK WIDOW: I I do n't see how that 's a party
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Dr . Banner . Now might be a really good time for you to get angry .
BANNER: That 's my secret , Captain . I 'm always angry .
LOKI: Send the rest .
BLACK WIDOW: Guys .
IRON MAN: Call it , Cap .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Alright , listen up . Until we can close that portal up there , we 're gon na use containment . Barton , I want you on that oof , eyes on everything . Call out patterns and strays . Stark , you got the perimeter . Anything gets more than three blocks out , you turn it back o your turn it to ash .
HAWKEYE: Wan na give me a lift ?
IRON MAN: Right . Better clench up , LEGOLAS . IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Thor , you 've got ta try and bottleneck that portal . Slow them down . You 've got the lightning . Light the bastards up . You and me , we stay here on the ground , keep the fighting here . And Hulk.SMASH .
HAWKEYE: Stark . You got a lot of strings sticking to your tail .
IRON MAN: Just try and keep them off the streets .
HAWKEYE: Well , they ca n't bank worth a damn . Find a tight corner .
IRON MAN: I will roger that .
TONY: Nice call . What else you got ?
BLACK WIDOW: Captain , none of this is gon na mean a damn thing if we do n't close that portal .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Our biggest guns could n't touch it .
BLACK WIDOW: Well , maybe it 's not about guns . ( gestures the flying
CAPTAIN AMERICA: You wan na get up there , you 're gon na need a ride .
BLACK WIDOW: I got a ride . I could use a lift though .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Are you sure about this ?
BLACK WIDOW: Yeah . It 's gon na be fun .
HAWKEYE: Captain , the bank on 42ndpast MADISON , they caught a lot of civilians there .
CAPTAIN AMERICA: I 'm on it .
NICK FURY: I recognize the council has made a decision , but given that it 's a stupid ass decision , I 've elected to ignore it .
BLACK WIDOW: Oh . You .
HAWKEYE: Nat , what are you doing ?
BLACK WIDOW: Doctor .
SELVIG: Loki 's scepter , the energythe Tesseract ca n't fight . You ca n't protect against yourself .
BLACK WIDOW: It 's not your fault . You did n't know what you were doing .
SELVIG: Well , actually I think I did . I built in a safety to cut the power source .
BLACK WIDOW: Loki 's scepter .
SELVIG: It might be able to close the portal . ( Selvig looks down . He sees a
GOLD GLEAM: And I 'm looking right at it .
JARVIS: Sir , we will lose power before you cut through that shell .
IRON MAN: JARVIS . You ever hear the tale of Jonah ?
JARVIS: I would n't consider him a role model .
NICK FURY: Stark , you hearing me ? We have a missile headed straight for the city .
IRON MAN: Jarvis , put everything we got into the thrusters !
JARVIS: I just did .
THOR: You ready for another bout ?
CAPTAIN AMERICA: What ? You gettin ' sleepy ?
BLACK WIDOW: I can close it ! Can anybody hear me ? I can shut the portal down !
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Do it !
TONY: I got a nuke coming in , it 's gon na blow in less than a minute . And I know just where to put it .
TO JARVIS: Save the rest for return , J .
JARVIS: Sir . Shall I call Miss Potts ?
IRON MAN: You might as well .
BLACK WIDOW: Come on , Stark
CAPTAIN AMERICA: Close it .
SMILING: Son of a gun !
THOR: He 's not slowing down .
TONY: What the hell ? What just happened ? Please tell me nobody kissed me ?
A BEAT: We won .
TONY: Alright . Hey . Alright . Good job , guys . Let 's just not come in tomorrow . Let 's just take a day . Have you ever tried shawarma ? There 's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here . I do n't know what it is , but I wan na try it .
THOR: We 're not finished yet . A beat .
TONY: And then shawarma after .
LOKI: If it 's all the same to you . I 'll have that drink .
SENATOR BOYNTON: These so called heroes have to be held esponsible for the destruction done to the city . This was their fight . Where are they now ?
WAITRESS: What ? That this was somehow thei fault ? Captain America saved my life . Wherever he is , wherever any of them are , I just wan na say thank you .
NICK FURY: I 'm not currently tracking thei whereabouts . I 'd say they 've earned a leave of absence .
FATHER: Oh , I thought you were already on the high seas .
ANNA: No , not yet , Dad .
FATHER: Is n't it fashionable any more to put on a sailor 's cap with the name of the yacht ?
ANNA: No , Dad , it is n't .
FATHER: And how long will you be away ?
ANNA: Four or five days .
FATHER: Oh , very well . I 'll just spend the weekend alone by myself and take a little rest . I should be used to it by now .
ANNA: Used to what ?
FATHER: To the fact of my retirement , not only as a diplomat but also as a father .
ANNA: But how could you say such a thing ?
FATHER: Because it 's true . After thirty years not having ever spoken the truth to anyone , I should at least allow myself to do so with my own daughter .
ANNA: And have you any other truths to tell me ?
FATHER: You already know what they are .
ANNA: You mean Sandro , do n't you ? Well , I beg of you , please , spare me that . Goodbye , Dad .
FATHER: That type will never marry you , my child .
FATHER: It 's the same thing . Goodbye , dear .
CLAUDIA: Have you been waiting long ? You 'll have to excuse me .
ANNA: Please hurry , Alvaro . We 're late .
CLAUDIA: I 'll wait for you here .
ANNA: I 'm thirsty .
CLAUDIA: If I had a man waiting for me for half an hou and whom I had n't seen for a month
ANNA: You know , I could just as well go without seeing him today .
CLAUDIA: What ! After giving us such a run around
SANDRO: I 'll be right down .
ANNA: She 'll wait .
CLAUDIA: That seems to apply to you also
SANDRO: Do n't be so humble .
CLAUDIA: How should I be arrogant ?
SANDRO: But of course arrogant , haughty Has n't Anna ever told you ?
CLAUDIA: It was lovelier before .
SANDRO: Like this ?
CLAUDIA: It 's all my fault !
CLAUDIA: There 's nothing much to laugh at .
SANDRO: And that 's what I say , too . We could have all een killed .
ANNA: I 'm sorry but I ca n't help laughing
GIULIA: It 's as smooth and slick as oil .
CORRADO: I detest comparisons made with oil .
CLAUDIA: Did you sleep well ?
CLAUDIA: I did n't know one could sleep so well on a yacht . It lulls you
ANNA: It would be better for you to get some sun .
SANDRO: Shall we go for a swim ?
CLAUDIA: Oh , no please not here . It looks too dangerous .
GIULIA: At one time the Aeolian isles were all volcanoes .
CORRADO: You must know your third grade geography book inside out .
CLAUDIA: What is that one over there called ?
CORRADO: That must be Basiluzzo .
CLAUDIA: Sounds like the name of a fish merluzzo , asiluzzo
CORRADO: Now that one is Lisca Bianca .
SANDRO: Anna !
CLAUDIA: Stop stop the boat !
GIULIA: How 's the water ?
PATRIZIA: Raimondo !
RAIMONDO: Lady Patrizia !
CORRADO: Are n't you going in for a swim , Patrizia ?
PATRIZIA: I have never understood the islands . With all that water around them , poor things
ANNA: When do you have to go back ?
SANDRO: I do n't know It depends on Ettore He 's now in the process of negotiating for a contract here in Sicily
ANNA: Then how come you 're not with him ?
SANDRO: What a question Because I want to be with you , naturally . I hope he does n't close the
ANNA: I 'd like to find a place where I can get some peace and rest , maybe around here somewhere . I 'd like to try
SANDRO: What could be more restful than this ? Excuse me , what is it that you want to try ?
GIULIA: Where is she going ?
SANDRO: Ask her .
SAILOR: I 've always worked on pleasure boats even though it 's more tiring .
CORRADO: Why ?
CORRADO: I 'm going ashore to take a look around the island . There are some ruins up there
SANDRO: There too
CORRADO: Well , we 're still in Italy , you know !
SANDRO: What kind of a fish is that ?
RAIMONDO: It 's a cernia .
SANDRO: My God , it 's enormous .
ANNA: A shark ! A shark !
SAILOR: Do n't move , lady Stay where you are Stop ! Everybody keep still .
ANNA: Stay away !
SANDRO: Anna
CLAUDIA: But how did you become aware of it ? Did it touch you ?
GIULIA: I would have died .
CORRADO: What happened ?
GIULIA: There 's a shark in the area . Do n't move from where you are !
CORRADO: Who 's moving ?
SANDRO: Here , drink some cognac .
ANNA: It 's nothing really . Let 's go back It 's all over now .
PATRIZIA: But where did the shark go to ?
ANNA: Which one shall I wear ?
CLAUDIA: This one is gorgeous .
ANNA: Then why do n't you try it on ?
GIULIA: But are n't you afraid ?
PATRIZIA: So , it is true that they 're blind
SANDRO: How are you ?
ANNA: Fine . Ca n't you see so yourself ?
SANDRO: Anna Maybe it would be better to wait a while .
ANNA: Wait for what ?
PATRIZIA: Well , with a shark running loose around the place , I for one wo n't get aboard that raft ! They 'll have to catch it first . I want to see it right here before my feet , dead or alive .
CLAUDIA: Better dead .
GIULIA: Will the three of us fit ?
SAILOR: Sure , sure . There 's plenty of room .
ANNA: Claudia , are n't you coming ?
CLAUDIA: I 'm certainly not going to swim across .
ANNA: We 'll send the raft back to you .
GIULIA: And bring some cushions when you come , and a towel
SAILOR: Okay . Come ahead , come ahead .
PATRIZIA: What do you want , Raimondo ? Do you want me ? A few years ago , maybe but now And , then , at this hour of the day !
CLAUDIA: I would say he 's pretty depraved .
PATRIZIA: Oh no ; quite the contrary . He 's really just a child .
RAIMONDO: Patrizia , do n't start in again I would
PATRIZIA: You know , I do n't love anybody .
RAIMONDO: I know , dammit , I know !
PATRIZIA: He amuses me . I do n't know of anything more amusing . Outside of this jigsaw puzzle . Do n't you find it so , Claudia ?
CLAUDIA: One would have to be in love with somebody to know that .
PATRIZIA: Have you ever been in love ?
CORRADO: If any of you get into your bathing suits again , you can be sure we wo n't be seeing one
CLAUDIA: Oh , how sweet What a dear little darling !
GIULIA: Who are you talking to ?
CLAUDIA: To the shark .
CORRADO: Say , Claudia , would n't you like to climb up with me and take a look over there ?
CLAUDIA: At what ?
CORRADO: At the ruins . They 're very ancient , you know .
GIULIA: Please , I beg of you , stay here .
CORRADO: Well ?
CLAUDIA: Well , what ?
CORRADO: Have you decided ?
GIULIA: Why did n't you ask me to go with you ?
GIULIA: He never misses a chance to humiliate me , to let me know that he does n't care about me any more .
SANDRO: And why have n't they left each other ?
SANDRO: Could be . They 're the kind of people who are capable of anything .
GIULIA: The trouble with you is that nobody can speak to you , that 's all .
SANDRO: Giulia , do n't you understand that the more involved you become with people , the more difficult it is to speak with them ?
GIULIA: You men are all so dreadful !
SANDRO: I know we are . But as the years go by , we ecome even worse . Is n't that so , Corrado ?
CORRADO: I hope so .
CLAUDIA: How wonderful !
CLAUDIA: I think you 're very sweet , Corrado .
CORRADO: More so than the shark ?
CLAUDIA: There 's no comparison .
CORRADO: Then why do n't we go up and see the ruins ?
ANNA: Sandro A month is too long a time . I have ecome used to being without you .
ANNA: A little more so this time .
SANDRO: So , it will just take you a little longer to get over it .
SANDRO: There will be plenty of time to talk about it later . We 'll get married soon . That way we 'll have more time
ANNA: In this case , getting married means nothing . Are n't we already the same as being married ? And Corrado and Giulia are n't they already the same as being married ?
SANDRO: But why rattle your brains by arguing and talking Believe me , Anna , words never help
SANDRO: But you just said that a month was too
SANDRO: And what about yesterday at my house
ANNA: There you go Must you always spoil everything !
GIULIA: Looks like the weather is changing .
CORRADO: Please , Giulia ; must you always emphasize the obvious ? I can see for myself that the weathe is changing .
SAILOR: We 'll have to get going .
CLAUDIA: And where 's Anna ? Is n't she on the yacht ?
SAILOR: I do n't know you see we were taking a little nap
RAIMONDO: You 've made some mistake there with the ushes that 's why you ca n't finish it .
CLAUDIA: Patrizia !
RAIMONDO: I do n't think so .
SANDRO: This is the kind of behavior that drives me crazy !
CLAUDIA: It 's a lamb !
SANDRO: No .
CORRADO: Perhaps she 's taking a swim somewhere
SANDRO: Me ? I no longer have any interest in uilding And , then , where can you find oulders of rock like this in Milan ?
CLAUDIA: Somebody must live here !
CORRADO: But Anna would n't be staying with the kind of people who live here .
SAILOR: We had better get started . The storm may eak any minute now .
CLAUDIA: What do you mean ! What about Anna ?
SAILOR: Would n't it be better if you told that to the Lady yourself . I ca n't assume the esponsibility for keeping the boat here . There 's no place to tie it up And then , you know , it 's got a flat bottom , and if the sea gets a little too rough
PATRIZIA: Perhaps she was n't feeling well Maybe a cramp or something
SANDRO: Anna is an excellent swimmer . Even with a cramp , she would have managed to reach shore somehow .
PATRIZIA: But you have to consider all possibilities , Sandro .
CORRADO: There are some footprints around here
SANDRO: Patrizia !
RAIMONDO: MarioSteer the boat that way .
SAILOR: Shall I turn back ?
SANDRO: No . Now that we 're here , let 's have a look around Basiluzzo . When we were swimming , she swam out in that direction .
CORRADO: Then let 's get started It 's senseless to waste any more time .
PATRIZIA: How long will it take to go there and come ack ?
SAILOR: If there 's a police station at Panarea , it should take us a couple of hours . But if we
CORRADO: I 'll stay here also .
GIULIA: But why ? What if it starts to rain ?
CORRADO: If it rains , I 'll buy myself an umbrella .
GIULIA: Do you want some blankets ? and something to eat ?
SANDRO: And why do you tell us this only now ?
CLAUDIA: I I do n't know I did n't think it was worthwhile She was laughing over it
CORRADO: Really ! Still , it remains to be seen why she
CLAUDIA: Maybe you 'd better ask him .
CORRADO: What were you and Anna arguing about ?
SANDRO: Nothing but the usual argument The only thing was if I remember correctly that she said she had a need to be alone .
CLAUDIA: And how do you explain that ?
SANDRO: Are you the owner of this place ?
OLD MAN: No . The owners are in Australia .
SANDRO: But where did you come from ?
OLD MAN: From Panarea . Why ?
CORRADO: Ah , then it was you I heard a boat leaving here at two o'clock today
OLD MAN: It must have been around four or five
CORRADO: In the afternoon ?
OLD MAN: No in the morning . Why ? What 's happened ?
SANDRO: Nothing nothing at all !
CLAUDIA: But why do n't you tell him ? A girl who was with us has disappeared .
OLD MAN: What do you mean disappeared ? Was she drowned ?
CLAUDIA: No , she did n't drown She just disappeared , and nobody knows where .
SANDRO: And I suppose it 's my fault Why do n't you tell him that too . That 's what you believe , is n't it ?
OLD MAN: Have you searched in back of the house to see if she might have fallen off that cliff ? Last month that 's what happened to one of my
CLAUDIA: Anna ! . . . Anna !
CORRADO: Come , Claudiacome back inside .
SANDRO: Are you feeling better ?
SANDRO: You 're very fond of Anna , are n't you ?
CLAUDIA: Yes , very much so .
SANDRO: Has she ever spoken to you about me ?
CLAUDIA: Occasionally , but always with affection .
SANDRO: And yet , she seemed to feel that our love fo her mine , yours , even her father 's , in a certain sense were n't enough for her , o did n't mean much to her .
SANDRO: Whose boat is that ?
OLD MAN: What boat ?
OLD MAN: At this time of the year there are so many oats
SANDRO: And how come you 're up so early ?
OLD MAN: Early ? Is four in the morning early for you ?
CORRADO: What do you think ?
PATRIZIA: We had to notify her father .
CORRADO: Yes , that was a very good idea .
PATRIZIA: He 'll be here sometime today . I also phoned my house in Milan but Ettore had already left .
MARSHAL: Anything new develop ?
SANDRO: Unfortunately , no .
SANDRO: Look , Marshal , with those deep crevasses , you 'll need some rope and ladders
MARSHAL: Do n't worry , we 've got everything .
SANDRO: Another thing ; there 's an old man who lives here on the island
MARSHAL: I know , I know . One thing at a time .
CARABINIERE: Nothing here !
CORRADO: Do n't look at me like that , Marshal I had nothing to do with it .
PATRIZIA: Let 's hope they do n't find her If they do , they would find her dead .
PATRIZIA: I do n't see why I should mind .
CLAUDIA: I think that you might go and have a look yourself .
SANDRO: Yes , maybe that is better .
PATRIZIA: What amazes me , is Sandro . He seems so calm .
CLAUDIA: Calm ? He does n't seem so to me He was awake all night .
RAIMONDO: What is it ?
FROGMAN: An ancient vase . There 's a buried city unde here . It 's full of this stuff .
PATRIZIA: Come on , Corrado , tell us what century it elongs to .
GIULIA: Corrado , why do n't you ask them to give it to us as a gift ?
CORRADO: Really ! So that you can stuff it with you geraniums .
PATRIZIA: But are n't you supposed to be on your way ?
SANDRO: Yes I 'm going I 'm going now .
CARABINIERE: It takes about twenty to twenty-two hours fo the current to reach here from Lisca Bianca .
CARABINIERE: If the girl disappeared yesterday afternoon ,
VOICES: It belongs to me We found it
GENTLEMAN: Back Stand back !
SANDRO: And you say that came from Lisca Bianca ?
CARABINIERE: It could n't have come from anywhere else . At least , somewhere from that vicinity But I eally ca n't understand it . Contraband
SANDRO: Look I 'd like to get back to Lisca Bianca .
SANDRO: But even here we were supposed to find who
CARABINIERE: As you wish .
MARSHAL: I believe you , I believe you But I 'm also
MARSHAL: Without any doubt , sir . If anything belonging to the girl who has run away is still here on this island
MARSHAL: I 'm sorry , sir . I did n't mean to put it that way . But , you must understand , sir , that I
ANNA'S FATHER: I understand very well . Only I do n't want any ash assumptions to be made .
MARSHAL: Here 's her valise , sir .
CLAUDIA: Do you want me to open it ?
ANNA'S FATHER: Yes , please .
MARSHAL: Sir , if you have no objections , may we start the search ?
ATTENDANT: Get everybody out of the way
MARSHAL: Okay . I 'll send them down to that part of the each over there
CLAUDIA: It 's because of this The dress It 's ecause of this dress . Anna gave it to me yesterday , right after the swim .
CORRADO: And what are we going to do now ?
MARSHAL: We 'll try again .
PATRIZIA: But is it really necessary ? Those two easts How absurd !
GIULIA: Sandro 's here .
ANNA'S FATHER: I do n't know him .
GIULIA: It seems to me that at a moment like this
ANNA'S FATHER: I do n't want to know him .
SANDRO: Claudia , listen Claudia .
CORRADO: I did n't think you 'd be back so early .
CARABINIERE: We did n't check the other islands , so
CORRADO: And why did n't you go there ?
CARABINIERE: He wanted to come back .
MARSHAL: Up until now those smugglers were operating only around the Palermo area . This will be a
MARSHAL: I wonder where they could have unloaded the stuff Maybe right here at Lisca .
CORRADO: Listen , Marshal As for there being reasons for going away , anyone of us might have three thousand of them . So you can assume that she had them . What I want to know , is it possible
MARSHAL: I think it 's possible .
MARSHAL: What is it about ?
SAILOR: They 've stopped a suspicious-looking boat a
CORRADO: Did you hear that ? What do you plan on doing ?
ANNA'S FATHER: We are in the hands of God .
SANDRO: That 's trueBut in the meantime , as far as
SANDRO: Pardon me for being so frank , but there are certain things that a father especially a father like you can not understand . So do n't e stubborn . I 'm coming with you .
PATRIZIA: What do you want us to do ? I do n't know myself But we 'll do something .
SANDRO: I 'll go and get my valise .
PATRIZIA: We 've decided to go to Montaldo 's place . In fact , Ettore should already be there .
SANDRO: Good . Then I 'll meet you there .
CLAUDIA: I 'm going with the patrol boat to make a tou around the islands .
PATRIZIA: To do what ?
CLAUDIA: I just ca n't leave without first searching those islands , one by one .
PATRIZIA: But are n't you tired ? I can just about manage to stand on my feet ! Raimondo !
RAIMONDO: Here I am , Patrizia . I 'm always here .
PATRIZIA: Claudia is n't coming with us . Will you please take care of her luggage ? Thanks .
SAILOR: No , sir , Lieutenant , we were n't even able to drop anchor once the sea was too rough .
LIEUTENANT: Okay . Just sign here . Have the next one come in . He 's the last , is n't he ?
YOUNG SAILOR: Yes , sir . My sister is sick and my father , too .
LIEUTENANT: So that 's why you 've turned to smuggling , eh ?
YOUNG SAILOR: Yes , sir . Three times .
YOUNG SAILOR: What other boat ?
LIEUTENANT: Now look , my men saw it and they also saw you
YOUNG SAILOR: I I was n't feeling well I.. I was sleeping I do n't know anything I I 'm all mixed up and
SANDRO: But what are you saying ? What are you saying ?
LIEUTENANT: Now look here , I 'm ready to forget the whole thing the cigarettes , the contraband
ANNA'S FATHER: I think it would be worth my while to take a un over to Palermo . The Chief of Police there is a very good friend of mine and I 'm sure
LIEUTENANT: At any rate , we 'll continue investigating . I
LIEUTENANT: That 's Francesco Zuria . He 's the news correspondent .
SANDRO: Where can we locate him ? Do n't you think that y offering a reward to anyone who can give us some information
LIEUTENANT: Zuria is in Messina . You might try him . Shall we phone him ?
SERGEANT: Have you any instructions for me , Lieutenant ? May I return to Lipari ?
LIEUTENANT: Yes . With whom did you leave the crate of cigarettes ?
SERGEANT: I left it at the warehouse .
SERGEANT: About two hours ago .
SANDRO: And the young lady who was with you ?
SERGEANT: I do n't know She said she had to catch a train .
SANDRO: Where are you going ? To Montaldo 's ?
CLAUDIA: Yes .
SANDRO: Then I 'll go with you .
CLAUDIA: Yes , you should go .
SANDRO: But then when will we see each other ?
CLAUDIA: I know it 's difficult . But if you go on like this it will become even more difficult .
SANDRO: I do n't know why . I just could n't help it .
CLAUDIA: But sooner or later we 've got to end this elationship . And it 's better to do it right now .
SANDRO: I have no desire to sacrifice myself It 's idiotic to sacrifice oneself Why ? Fo
CLAUDIA: Oh , Sandro
CLAUDIA: For me they are exactly as they were when we met three days ago just three days ago do n't you realize ? And you and Anna No , I guess they are n't like that any more . My God ,
SANDRO: It takes even less .
CLAUDIA: No , I 'm sure it wo n't . Move over there . Let 's
SANDRO: And what about you ?
CLAUDIA: Me I I Please leave me alone .
WOMAN'S VOICE: I work there but I 'm really a stranger .
WOMAN'S VOICE: And who is she ? Does she work in Catania ?
MAN'S VOICE: Yes , she takes care of the garden .
MAN'S VOICE: So ? That 's logical . You see , both being
WOMAN'S VOICE: And what did they say about me ?
MAN'S VOICE: They told me that you were a very nice girl , that you always mind your business In othe words , things of that sort .
WOMAN'S VOICE: We have a radio like this , too .
MAN'S VOICE: No , not like this one .
WOMAN'S VOICE: And why would n't we have one like this ?
MAN'S VOICE: Because this is a Chinese radio .
MAN'S VOICE: But for you , what comes first music or love ?
SANDRO: Claudia , listen to me
CLAUDIA: No , Sandro , please I ask you as a favor
SANDRO: But why , Claudia ? Why ?
PRINCESS: Did you have a good trip ? It is such a
CLAUDIA: From Rome .
CLAUDIA: An intelligent clergyman , Princess ? But I think the intelligent clergymen of today have so many other things to do .
PRINCESS: Well , perhaps one with a little physical handicap . One who is slightly lame , fo example .
PATRIZIA: But where did you finally end up ?
CLAUDIA: It was futile . We went all over .
GIULIA: But how can you carry on a discussion in this heat ?
CORRADO: When one approaches fifty , my dear , he is affected only by the cold .
ETTORE: And who is this ?
PATRIZIA: This is Claudia , Anna 's friend You 've never met my husband , have you ?
ETTORE: By the way , have you phoned him ?
CORRADO: You mean Sandro ? I told you already . He 's not in . At least he 's not at the hotel .
PATRIZIA: But did n't he say he was coming here
ETTORE: Well , what are you all waiting for ? Send a ca
ETTORE: Maybe . But do you know that forty thousand persons a year disappear in Italy without leaving a single trace behind them . Forty thousand ! Almost as much as the entire
RAIMONDO: Okay .
ETTORE: It would n't really do you any harm to skip a meal .
PRINCESS: I 've never met this Sandro . What kind of a person is he ? He could n't have done her in himself , by any chance ?
GIULIA: My God , how could we joke over something like that ! We should be ashamed of ourselves .
PRINCESS: Come on , let 's go .
GIULIA: Goffredo is the Princess ' nephew . He 's
GOFFREDO: Anybody can hold a brush in his hand . All you need is to buy some oils and start painting . Even Rembrandt did the same .
ETTORE: But where is the Prince ? Is he well ?
PRINCESS: The last time I saw him , the day before yesterday , it seemed he was well .
ETTORE: Princess , why do n't you sell this villa ? I
PRINCESS: It 's a little like that already .
OTHER VOICES: It 's Queen Saroya I saw her So , who could it be ?
SANDRO: Which one of you is Zuria ?
NEWSPAPERMAN: He 's inside .
SANDRO: Zuria ?
ZURIA: Yes . Until proven otherwise .
SANDRO: I would like to ask you something .
ZURIA: Wait a moment . Ca n't you see I 'm busy ?
MANAGER: I phoned you , Chief , because , in view of the situation I thought it best
GIRL: I came down here to buy a foulard Suddenly I realized that little by little , directly ehind me , I was being followed by so many men , and more and more of them kept coming .
ZURIA: How old are you ?
GIRL: Nineteen . My name is Gloria Perkins . I 'm
ZURIA: How do you find the men of Messina ? Are you
GIRL: No , why should I be shocked ? We 're in Italy , not Finland .
ZURIA: And how were you received in Palermo ?
GIRL: In Palermo I was with my husband . Now I 'm going to Capri to write an article for the Tourist Office .
ZURIA: She did exactly the same thing in Palermo .
GIRL: Oh , yes , thank you
ZURIA: Do you like her ?
SANDRO: You 're kidding !
ZURIA: No , I 'm not . Why do you think she does all this ? It 's one of the many ways she can put
SANDRO: I read one of your articles regarding the
SANDRO: Now listen , if I had any information , I would n't have come here to ask you . But I see that you , too , lack any information
ZURIA: As a matter of fact , I 've already had several
SANDRO: Is that possible ?
ZURIA: Who knows ? Another one has it that she entered a store in Troina . This information comes from the storekeeper himself who stated that such and such a girl had bought I do n't know what in his store at Troina .
SANDRO: Is that far from here ?
SANDRO: Yes of course But you should also print
SANDRO: You really must do me this one favor .
ZURIA: Pardon me , but why must I do you a favor ?
SANDRO: Then let 's call it a business proposition . Something to round out your salary .
CLAUDIA: It 's divine !
PATRIZIA: You say that just to flatter me .
CLAUDIA: Do you consider that a compliment ?
PATRIZIA: No .
GIULIA: He wants to show me his paintings . He wo n't let go of me anymore . Poor thing , he must have a crush on me
CLAUDIA: But for what reason should I come there ?
GIULIA: Please , do come Do n't leave me alone with him . He 's capable of I do n't know Have you noticed his eyes ?
GOFFREDO: Giulia
GIULIA: Here I am .
CLAUDIA: They 're all nudes , if I 'm not mistaken .
GIULIA: But why all nudes ?
GIULIA: And where do you find the models ?
GOFFREDO: Oh , there are as many as one wants .
GIULIA: I thought the model was something obsolete nowadays . Did n't you , Claudia ?
GOFFREDO: It 's strange how anxious women are to display
GOFFREDO: Why do n't you try ?
GIULIA: Me Goffredo , you 're mad ! He 's mad .
CLAUDIA: Not really .
GIULIA: Do n't you ever paint men ?
GIULIA: But why me ? Ask Claudia , she 's much more eautiful than me .
GIULIA: I appeal to you more ?
CLAUDIA: Giulia !
GIULIA: And tell Corrado , too , that I 'm here if he wants me . You can also tell him that my tiny little heart is beating like mad , and that at
CLAUDIA: It could n't be any clearer .
GIULIA: Now what do I have to do to be left in peace ?
PATRIZIA: Claudia Let 's go .
CLAUDIA: I 'm not coming .
PATRIZIA: But then why did you bother changing ?
CORRADO: Giulia is like Oscar Wilde ; give her the superfluous and she will do without the essential .
HUSBAND: Be patient , I ca n't remember everything .
WIFE: `` A young female stranger , whose description
HUSBAND: But if I was carrying on with the girl , why
WIFE: That 's what I 'd like to know myself .
LADY AMALIA: Disappeared ? Who is she ? Where ? When ?
HUSBAND: And that makes four . Anybody else ?
SANDRO: You have to be precise . Did this girl ente your store or did n't she ?
WIFE: Yes !
SANDRO: Was she blonde or brunette ?
HUSBAND: Brunette .
WIFE: Blonde .
SANDRO: How was she dressed ?
HUSBAND: No I do n't think so .
SANDRO: Thanks .
CLAUDIA: Any news ?
HUSBAND: Then why do n't you go back ?
CLAUDIA: How long have you been married ?
WIFE: Three months .
SANDRO: Well Thanks for the information .
DRIVER: Did your car break down ?
SANDRO: No . I only want some information .
ASSISTANT: Two days ago was n't there that midwife on the bus , too ? Sure , that 's right , and she was talking to some young woman
SANDRO: Can you tell me where she got off ?
SANDRO: Okay , thanks .
CLAUDIA: My God Let 's hope it was her .
MIDWIFE: I only exchanged a few casual words with her , as one would ordinarily do on a public bus
SANDRO: And do you remember where she got off ?
CLAUDIA: After that , you did n't see her anymore ?
MIDWIFE: What are you trying to insinuate , young lady ? Why should I have seen her again ? I do n't do anything that 's illegitimate .
CLAUDIA: Oh , no What are you saying ? I 'm not insinuating anything
MIDWIFE: There 's the Trinacria Hotel or the Regina , near the municipal building . As for rooming houses , I do n't know
SANDRO: Thank you .
MIDWIFE: Do n't mention it Pleased to be of service any time .
CLAUDIA: Look at that bridge ! Who knows why they even othered to make it
SANDRO: Who knows why they all left
SANDRO: Are you joking ?
SANDRO: What is it , Claudia ?
CLAUDIA: Oh , Sandro I 'm so ashamed of myself , so ashamedI tried to hide myselfI feel so small I hate myself
SANDRO: Does it please you to say such things ?
CLAUDIA: Oh no It does n't please me at all
SANDRO: Then why do you say them ?
CLAUDIA: Because what I 'm doing is so ugly Because if you told me right now `` Claudia , I love you , '' I would believe you
SANDRO: At one time , all these houses were convents .
CLAUDIA: And why did you drop them ?
CLAUDIA: I 'm sure you 'd be able to design some very lovely things .
SANDRO: I do n't know about that . And then , who 's interested in beautiful things nowadays ?
CLAUDIA: What ! Get married ?
CLAUDIA: What do I say ? What can I say ? No . At least ,
SANDRO: You look at me as though I had said something foolish
SANDRO: That 's why I asked you
CLAUDIA: So Oh , how I wish that everything were so much simpler that people could just come
SANDRO: Are you ready ?
CLAUDIA: But why am I so infatuated with you ?
SANDRO: Hurry up now , or it 'll begin to get hot outside
CLAUDIA: Yes , yes , yes , yes Right away
SANDRO: Okay . I understand . See you later .
CLAUDIA: And you leave me here all alone in this hotel room
SANDRO: But you know it already . Why must I tell you ?
CLAUDIA: So , you wonder why ?
SANDRO: Then I 'll see you later .
CLAUDIA: Okay . In a few minutes .
SANDRO: It 's closed . Is n't there any custodian o caretaker inside ?
COACHMAN: Nobody there .
COACHMAN: Tourists ? Last year a few Frenchmen came here and they all walked around in their bathing
SANDRO: Are you the custodian ?
CUSTODIAN: Yes , come right in .
HOTEL MANAGER: Go ahead , keep right on singing
CLAUDIA: I was just coming out to meet you . How come you 're back so soon ?
SANDRO: Nothing .
CLAUDIA: No , Sandro Please
SANDRO: Why ?
CLAUDIA: No reason why
CLAUDIA: What are you saying ?
SANDRO: I was only joking , really Ca n't I make a joke ? And now you 've got to tell me why you do n't want to .
SANDRO: But what ?
CLAUDIA: Did the hotel manager speak to you about that place nearby ?
SANDRO: Yes , she started to but I did n't feel like
CLAUDIA: No , Sandro We should go . Besides , we have n't been in touch with anybody . Not even with Anna 's father . We should have at least
CLAUDIA: How are you ?
PATRIZIA: Quieter ? Oh , yes , of course .
SANDRO: Yes , we will .
PATRIZIA: Did you manage to find good rooms ?
SANDRO: They did n't seem too good .
SANDRO: Ettore must be fed up with me by now .
CLAUDIA: How do you manage to put up with all this confusion ? You always said people bore you .
PATRIZIA: You should n't always take me seriously . Actually , I 'm used to it by now . First my mother and now my husband ; both of them are like dynamos .
SANDRO: Your mother ?
PATRIZIA: Yes , even I had a mother . She was part Austrian , but she was still my mother . My childhood was like a tennis match ; they ounced me back and forth , here and there
PATRIZIA: What do you mean by sensible ?
CLAUDIA: It means being without money .
PATRIZIA: See you soon , then .
SANDRO: You see ? Just like a robot .
CLAUDIA: Sandro , listen Try not to get yourself too involved tomorrow .
SANDRO: Are n't you going to change ?
SANDRO: Sure , that 's what I said
CLAUDIA: Sandro , I 'm not coming down .
SANDRO: Why ?
CLAUDIA: I 'm too sleepy .
CLAUDIA: Late , very late .
SANDRO: Good night , my love .
CLAUDIA: Good night . Tell me that you love me .
SANDRO: I love you .
CLAUDIA: Tell me once more .
SANDRO: I do n't love you .
CLAUDIA: I deserve it .
SANDRO: That 's not true . I love you .
ETTORE: Say , I hope it 's understood that starting
CLAUDIA: Patrizia Patrizia Where 's Ettore ?
PATRIZIA: I imagine he must be inside sleeping .
CLAUDIA: Would you please see if Sandro is with him ?
PATRIZIA: Ettore
ETTORE: What is it ?
PATRIZIA: Nothing , nothing at all . I was just looking for Sandro .
PATRIZIA: Yes , yes , of course . She returns to her room .
CLAUDIA: Patrizia , I 'm afraid .
CLAUDIA: I 'm afraid that Anna has come back . I feel she 's back , and that they 're together .
PATRIZIA: But what 's gotten into you ? We would have known . Sandro must be out in the garden somewhere , taking a breath of fresh air , o
CLAUDIA: Just several days ago , the thought of Anna eing dead would have made me sick . And now , I
PATRIZIA: You should never wish to get melodramatic ove anything .
BLUE: REV .10/1 3/89
BOY'S VOICE: When can I see him ?
WOMAN'S VOICE: When he 's well .
OPERATOR: Yes ?
SAYER: When you say people you mean living people , .
DIRECTOR: Living people , yes . Patients .
DIRECTOR: Neurology lab ?
DIRECTOR: A doctor doctor .
SAYER: Earthworms . The Director is n't sure he heard right .
DIRECTOR: Sorry ? ,
SAYER: It was an immense project. `` I was trying to extract a decigram of myelin from four tons of earthworms .
KAUFMAN: It ca n't .
SAYER: Well , I know that now . I proved it .
DIRECTOR: Maybe before . At Saint Thomas . All research . Earth - ?
SAYER: Pigs brains . . . theyre quite similar to human brains .
DIRECTOR: Are they ?
SAYER: Oh , yes . . . three years .
KAUFMAN: Thanks anyway .
DIRECTOR: Back in medical school
SAYER: I guess not . As they pass an old patient in a wheelchair -
ANTHONY: Hey , how you doing ? Dr. Sullivan .
OLD PATIENT: Fn ie
ANTHONY: Dr. Sullivan , this is Dr. Sayer ;
SULLIVAN: Not the neurologist , that 'd be asking too much . You 're not the neurologist .
SAYER: I think I am .
SULLIVAN: Well , come on , Anthony , get him a coat for Christ 's sake .
SAYER: Mrs. Cohen ?
MRS. COHEN: Hes here ?
SAYER: I 'm here . To examine you .
MRS. COHEN: Oh , no , I ' m leaving today . My son 's coming to take me home .
SAYER: Excuse me . Mrs. Cohen 's son . He 's coming today ?
NURSE 1: I would n't bet on it , he has n't for twenty years .
MISS COSTELLO: You do n't think it will , but it does . A moment and she A urns and leaves .
SAYER'S VOICE: Can you hear me ? .
SAYERS VOICE: Her name is Lucy Fishman . . .
SAYER: And yet . . .
DR. KAUFMAN: A reflex .
SAYER: If she batted it away I might call that a reflex . She does n't bat it away , she catches it .
DR. KAUFMAN: - It 's still a reflex .
SAYER: I 'm sorry , if you were right I 'd agree with you .
DR. TYLER: The `` will of the ball ? ''
DR. SULLIVAN: Excuse me .
DR. KAUFMAN: Miss Costello , you 'll see that Dr . Saver 's patients waiting out there are rescheduled for tomorrow ?
MISS COSTELLO: Yes , sir .
DR. KAUFMAN: Good night .
MISS COSTELLO: I just wanted to say to you I preferred your explanation .
SAYER: Thank you . . .
SIDNEY: The voice was real .
SAYER: What did the voice say ?
SIDNEY: `` Mr. Titch , get your coat and hat , go up to the roof and jump off . ''
SAYER: Did you recognize it as belonging to a person ? Or was it just a voice ?
SIDNEY: If that 's true . . . I 'm in a predicament .
DR. TYLER: The smell of them .
DR. SULLIVAN: We 'd miss this place - We 'd miss this . . . Whatever this is . .
SAYER: Ye .
SIDNEY: No .
SAYER: You see me now though .
SIDNEY: Yes .
MISS COSTELLO: `` Atypical Hysteria , '' this one .
SAYER: There must be more recent files we missed somehow . `` Part Twos '' to their medical histories . In some other filing cabinet somewhere . . ..
MISS COSTELLO: NO .
SAYER: One would think that after a point enough atypical somethings would amount to a typical something . But a typical `` what ? ''
SAYER: Ah . . . normally I 'd say yes . . . only I 've made other plans . . .
MISS COSTELLO: Some other time .
SAYER: Yes .
SAYER: Good night . They veer apart to their respective cars .
WAITER: Tea , right ? 
SAYER: P e s . '- lae
JANITOR: I 'm sorry , doctor . I thought someone left the lights on .
SAYER: They all survived encephalitis years before they came here . In the 1920 ' s .
SAYER: Should I get your nurse ?
OLD DOCTOR: God forbid , no .
SAYER: Five . So far . I think there may e more .
OLD DOCTOR: How are they ?
SAYER: As you described them . As they were back then . As `` insubstantial as ghosts . '' Only I guess most of them were children then .
OLD DOCTOR: Yes . Children who fell asleep .
SAYER: What must it be like to be them ?
SAYER: We know that for a fact .
OLD DOCTOR: Yes .
SAYER: Bec use . . .
OLD DOCTOR: Because the alternative is unthinkable .
SAYER: Sorry . .
MISS COSTELLO: It 's different .
SAYER: Quite . It 's quite bad . Sayer keeps studying it .
MRS. LOWE: Of course not . Not in words .
SAYER: He speaks to you in other ways . How do you mean ? MRS. LOWE i You do n't have children .
MRS. LOWE: If you did you 'd know .
SAYER: I 'd like to examine him again-if that 's all right with you .
MRS. LOWE: He 's very clever . Are n't you , Leonard . .
SAYER: Does this mean anything to you ?
MRS. LOWE: Well it 's abstract , is n't it . Sayer ca n't bring himself to agree with her .
MR.S LOWE: He never spoke again . It was like he 'd disappeared . I took him to Bainbridge later that year . November fourteenth , 1937 . He was twenty .
SAYER: What 'd he do with himself , Mrs. Lowe , those nine years he stayed in this room ? She smiles to herself , proudly it seems .
MRS. LOWE: He read . y
MANN: When you say you 're working with people , you do n't mean living people . (
SAYER: Living people , yes . Patients .
MANN: Where ?
SAYER: It 's in The Bronx . It 's a poo private chronic hospital called M ou nt
MANN: Oh , Malcolm , Malcolm , come back , come on . You 're a benchman , you 're no clinician , why would you lower yourself ? Sayer has n't an answer for him .  
SAYER: How 's Hank ?
MANN: How 's Hank ? He 's great , he 's illiant , look at him .
SAYER: Subtract two seconds off his time .
MANN: Do n't look at me like that . It 's for his alphabet lessons . We 're busy , Hank , go play solitaire .
MANN: Awake . Slightly erratic . No more so than a lot of people walking the streets of New York . I give up , what 's wrong with him ?
SAYER: You have them backwards . This is him awake . . . This is him asleep .
MANN: This is him awake ? This is him asleep ?
SAYER: When there 's any brain activity at all , which is infrequent , yes . Dreaming or hallucinating .
MANN: And when he 's asleep . . . ?
SAYER: When he 's asleep he manages to create a kind of reality . What we might call reality .
MANN: That 's what you think these say ?
SAYER: 1 do n't know .
MANN: What 's this peak ? Strobe ?
SAYER: No . This is the strobe .
MISS COSTELLO: Good . Dr. Sayer was hoping you 'd have some free time .
MARGARET: `` Call me . . . Ish-ma-el . . .
SAYER: Can you hear me , Leonard ? I want to hear you speak your name .
FERNANDO: . . . not just any music , it has to e the right , music for them . Jazz does nothing for Bert . Only Rose . It 's like they 're only moved by music that moves them . I 'm that
SAYER: Yes , so am I .
FERNANDO: I have n't found anything that moves Bert yet .
SAYER: That 's not true .
MS WOMAN: I wish I had something like that . SSmething that would interest you instead of this stupid boring MS .
MARGARET: They 'll sit there all day like that if I let them . I have to play the first card .
SAYER: Is it a real game I wonder ?
MARGARET: If it is , I do n't know it . Maybe it 's three different games .
SAYER: Yes .
SAYER'S VOICE: `` His gaze from staring through the ars has grown so weary that it can take in nothing more . . .
NEUROCHEMIST: There 's an ordinary medicine with which we are all familiar . An everyday medicine of stubbed toes and bunions and boils .
SAYER: Thank you . Yes . Yes , I 'm very much interested in your work with this drug . I 'm curious if . . .
NEUROCHEMIST: Doctor ?
SAYER: Sayer . I 'm curious if you . . .
NEUROCHEMIST: After I 'm through , Dr. Sayer . If you would n't mind .
SAYER: If jail the compulsions in the Parkinson 's patient were somehow
NEUROCHEMIST: Dr. Sayer , yes ? I 'm a chemist , doctor . I leave it to you guys to do the damage .
KAUFMAN: Freud believed in miracles . Prescribing cocaine like it was candy . . .
SAYER: With all due respect , I think it 's ather too soon to say that .
KAUFMAN: With all due `` respect , '' it 's ather way too soon . Let the chemists do the damage .
SAYER: Did you read the case - the husband who came home to find his wife singing . She had n't felt like singing in years .
KAUFMAN: How do you know ? Because they catch tennis balls ?
SAYER: I know it .
SAYER: All of them some of them one of them . . .
KAUFMAN: One . With the family 's consent . Signed .
SAYER: He asked me to leave . . Kaufman nods like , Just checking . And -
MRS. LOWE: Leonard has Parkinson 's Disease ?
MRS. LOWE: Then what will this medicine dp . for him ?
SAYER: I do n't know what it 'll do fo him , if anything .
MRS. LOWE: What do you think it will do ?
SAYER: I do n't know .
MRS. LOWE: What db < you hope it will do ?
SAYER: I hope it 'll bring him back from wherever he is .
MRS. LOWE: What 's here for him after all these years ? '
SAYER: You are here .
RAY: Maybe the acid in the orange juice , neutralized it .
SAYER: Or maybe it 's not enough .
RAY: Five hundred milligrams .
SAYER: I 'll call if there 's any change .
MRS. LOWE: Yes .
MISS COSTELLO: I 'm going home too . If you need me .  *
SAYER: Yes , I 'll call .
LEONARD: It 's quiet .
SAYER: It 's late . Everyone 's asleep
LEONARD: I 'm not asleep ?
SAYER: No . You 're awake .
LEONARD: Me .
SAYER: Your mother is here .
MISS COSTELLO: My name is Elizabeth . It 's a  pleasure to meet you .
MARGARET: How do you do , sir ? My name is Margaret .
LEONARD: Margaret .
FERNANDO: Great , man . How 're you ?
LEONARD: Great , too .
RAY: How do you do , Mr. Lowe ?
LEONARD: ! Good , sir .
FERNANDO: I would n't go that far , Len .
MISS COSTELLO: I do n't think I could deal with losing 3D years of my life . I ca n't even imagine it .
SAYER: He must .
MISS COSTELLO: Does it look like it ? .
SAYER: Do you know if Leonard 's awake ?
LEONARD: Good morning . . His speech is still rather flat , halting. ,
SAYER: Been waiting for me long ?
LEONARD: Yes .
SAYER: Some things have happened while you 've been away . I thought you 'd e interested .
LEONARD: I used to read quite a lot .
SAYER: Have you thought about what you 'd like to do today ?
LEONARD: Everything .
SAYER: I 'm not sure I can arrange that .
LEONARD: Try .
LEONARD: I 'd like to go outside .
THE LIFE": and it CONTINUES OVER
LEONARD: You just moved here .
LEONARD: Your son ?
SAYER: Me , actually . ' , , '' t
SAYER: I probably was .
LEONARD: What if you just want to go for a walk ?
SAYER: Walks are a problem . Walks are the hardest thing . You just neve know .
SAYER: No .
SAYER: -~ Eleanor ? ^r * LEONARD Miss Costello .
LEONARD: But you meant normal people .
SAYER: We should be getting back .
SAYER: About a month .
KAUFMAN: A month ?
SAYER: I was thinking of speaking to the patrons .
KAUFMAN: The few patrons this hospital has give what they can .
SAYER: Well , we 'd have to convince them to give more than they*re accustomed to giving .
KAUFMAN: I think you overestimate the effect Mr. Lowe has on people . We 're talking about money here .
SAYER: Virtually aphonic , Mr. Lowe could articulate no words , but rathe only , with considerable effort , an occasional noise , a kind of , `` h .. . ``
SAYER'S VOICE: Whenever you 're ready .
RAY: They 're volunteers from the neighborhood .
SAYER: Wonderful . v 119 .
VOICE: Dr. Sayer ?
SAYER: What is it ?
NIGHT NURSE: It 's a miracle .
MIRIAM: I 've been sitting for 25 years , you missed your chance .
ORDERLY 1: You 're Italian , he 's Italian , what 's the problem ?
ORDERLY 2: I was born here - X do n't speak  Italian .
BERT: I want a steak , rare . I want mashed potatoes and gravy , string eans , a slice of pie and a ' chocolate phosphate .
ANTHONY: I think I prefer them the othe way .
ROSE: And some dye . Black .
MARGARET: Black , are you sure ?
ROSE: And some clothes . . . my . clothes .
MAG DA: t he garden er , he mus t prune the fruit trees the roses . . . I think he 's forget . . .
NUR SE: Miriam Miriam . . .
F RANCIS: . . . I was aware of things , but no thi ng mea nt a nyt hin g , the re w as no connection to me . There was a war . . . or two . . .
FRANK: M y wi fe a nd s on . A re th ey w el l ?
MISS COSTELLO: We 'll find them for you . We 'll track them down . Lucy again , Sayer still at her side .
LUCY: . . . I called to my sister , but she could n't hear me . No one could hear me . I was alone . . . And then I woke up .
SAYER: Lucy , what year is it ?
LUCY: What year is it ? You do n't know ?
MIRIAM: I walked all the way over there . And back . What a perfect day .
LOLLY: Hi , Sidney .
SIDNEY: Hi . i
PAULA: `` Released from bondage and idicule after seven destitute seasons , they raised the roof of Shea Stadium - while their fans attempted to dismantle it - in one of the loudest , wildest victory celebrations in baseball history - `` ._
LOLLY: Hi , Sidney .
SIDNEY: Hi .
SAYER: As real as real can be .
ANTHONY: Len - come on .
MRS. LOWE: Sidney 's going .
LEONARD: He 's a patient , Mom .
LEONARD: He 's still a patient . You 're not a patient .
MRS. LOWE: I 'm your mother .
LEONARD: There 's your bus . .
SAYER: Ready ?
LEONARD: I 've decided not to go . He waves to his mother . Sayer stares at him .
SAYER: Why ? What 's wrong ?
LEONARD: Nothing . Wave .
MIRIAM: ' Let 's go , already .
LEONARD: I 'll see you later , have a good time .
BUS DRIVER: Where to ?
MISS COSTELLO: Dr. Sayer ?
SAYER: Has someone wandered off ?
MISS COSTELLO: You .
PAULA: `` . . . to the undistinguished ars of a hundred neighborhoods , New York yesterday went pleasantly mad over the World Champion Mets . . .
LEONARD: No . 
PAULA: You work here .
LEONARD: I live here .
PAULA: You 're a patient ?
LEONARD: I do n't ? She smiles and shakes her head 'no.1
PAULA: I do n't know if he knows I visit him or not . I do n't know that he knows who I am . My mothe does n't think so . She does n't ; come around any more
LEONARD: But you do .
PAULA: Why are you here ?
LEONARD: ' I receive medication .
SAYER: I 've always loved tide pools , have n't you ? Anthony does n't answer . He seems troubled .
ANTHONY: You chose this place ? Why ?
SAYER: , I come here all the time .
ANTHONY: Why ?
MISS COSTELLO: They are .
SAYER: I ' d thought about the opera house . Do you think they 'd prefer that ?
ANTHONY: The opera house ?
SAYER: The Botanical Gardens ?
ROSE: It 's legal again ?
MISS COSTELLO: For some time now .
MISS COSTELLO: A Shirley Temple .
PAULA: Things happen , people are late .
LEONARD: They wo n't be angry .
PAULA: Oh , they 'll be angry . What 're they going to do , fire me ?
LEONARD: Okay .
PAULA: Bye . He shakes the hand gently , lets it go .
LEONARD: Bye .
PAULA: Thanks for talking to me .  She steps away toward the door .
LEONARD: He knows .
PAULA: I 'll see you . She leaves .
ROSE: Is he betrothed , do you know ?
MISS COSTELLO: Not that I know of . I kind of doubt it .
ROSE: You made me love you I did n't want to do it  I did n't want to do it . . .
SAYER: What are you doing ?
LEONARD: What is this place ?
SAYER: It 's your library .
LEONARD: Me ?
RAY: He 's still has n't talked ?
MISS COSTELLO: We think he got sick before he learned how to talk .
NURSE 1: She 's the daughter of the nephew of a Dutch archduke . She 's oyalty .
BETH: Then forget it , I 'm not curtsying .
SAYER: Can I have your hand ?
LUCY: You 're my Prince Charming .
ORDERLY: There it is .
ANTHONY: How 's it going , Frank ?
FRANK: How 's it `` going ? ''
ANTHONY: How do you feel ?
FRANK: How do I feel ? My parents are dead . My wife is I in an institution . My son has disappeared `` Out West '' somewhere . I feel old and I feel swindled , that 's how I feel .
ANTHONY: Pontiac Firebird , 350 engine , now there 's a car , Bert .
BERT: Firebird . . .
PAULA: Hi , Leonard .
MOVER 1: Excuse me , ma'am . .
LEONARD: . . . bookcases there . . . there . . . take some of these benches out . . . maybe have a ramp over here . . .
MOVER 2: Excuse me , ma'am*
MRS. LOWE: He never talked about girls efore . He certainly never had anything to d with them .
LEONARD'S VOICE: I think we should organize a speaking tour .
SAYER: Leonard ?
LEONARD: I think it 's important . I think it 's important some things were said .
SAYER'S VOICE: What kind of things ?
LEONARD: Things that matter . Things that have happened to me . Things I 've cone to understand . Things .
SAYER: Where are you calling from ?
LEONARD'S VOICE: Your office . SAYER i It 's very late , Leonard .
SAYER: Stay there . I 'm coming over .
LEONARD'S VOICE: Good . *
LEONARD: Read a newspaper , people have forgotten what life is all about . They 've forgotten what it is to be alive . They need to be reminded . They need to be reminded what they have , what they can lose , what I feel , this , the , the , the . . .
SAYER: I do n't know if it 's liberation o mania or love .
RAY: With me ? - I never know . 
SAYER: What he says is absolutely true . We do n't really live . . Does that mean there 's something wrong with him or us ?
LEONARD: Yeah .
KAUFMAN: Where is it ?
LEONARD : There .
LEONARD: The simplest thing .
KAUFMAN: And what is that ?
LEONARD: I want to know that I 'm free to go for a walk , if I feel like it . Like any normal person .
KAUFMAN: What difference does that make ?
LEONARD: I think you know .
KAUFMAN: I do n't know . Tell me .
LEONARD: It makes all the difference .
PSYCHIATRIST: Mr. Lowe ? I wonder . . . are you at all aware of the unconscious hostility you 're exhibiting
LEONARD: How could I be aware of something that 's unconscious ? *
KAUFMAN: I 'm curious . . . I can tell this is important to you but I ' m not sure why . What would you do if you went out ?
LEONARD: I ' d walk around . I ' d talk to people , I ' d look at things . I ' d decide whether I wanted to go this way , or that way , or keep going straight . I ' d do the things you do everyday and take for granted . Long silence . Then
KAUFMAN: I 'll tell you what , we 'll take it under consideration . We 'll let you know .
LEONARD: Yeah , I was aware of it .  I was nervous . It 's nothing . What 'd they say ?
SAYER: They said it 's a dangerous place out there . They said they ca n't e held responsible for what might happen to you out there . They said no .
LEONARD: And what did you say ?
SAYER: They do n't have to listen to me .
LEONARD: Did you agree with them ?
SAYER: Yes . Leonard nods again , philosophically it seems .
LEONARD: Bye . and turns to leave .
SAYER: Leonard Leonard ignores him and walks out
LEONARD: For a walk .
SAYER: Leonard . . . Leonard ignores him .
MRS. LOWE: He was quiet and polite and espectful . He never demanded anything . He was neve disobedient .
SAYER: He was catatonic , Mrs. Lowe .
MRS. LOWE: I 'm speaking of when he was a boy .
SAYER: This is a mistake . It 's wrong and it 's cruel and it should neve have happened like this - but you have to understand - nothing quite like this has happened before , no one knows what to do . . . Leonard , please do n't ignore me .
LEONARD: Wake up .
ORDERLY: I guess they 're not hungry .
KAUFMAN: Who ?
ORDERLY: Ward 5 . The door slides shut .
LEONARD: It is n't us that 's defective , it 's them . We 're not in crisis , they are . We 've been through the worst that can happen to a person and survived it . They have n't . They fear it . And they hide from their fear by hiding us , because they know , they know . . .
SAYER: - He 's lived for thirty years without the ability to release his anger -
KAUFMAN: - So have the others -
KAUFMAN: Oh , is that it -
KAUFMAN: I 've got 20 psychotics up there , `` doctor , '' refusing to eat . They have no idea whv they 're refusing to eat . How long should I let that go -
SAYER: He knows why , hs . wants out .
KAUFMAN: Mr. Lowe is not the Messiah of Ward 5 , he 's a man in trouble . He was n't `` resurrected , '' he was administered a drug - by . you - that 's fallen somewhat short of its `` miraculous '' reputation -
SAYER: I 'll talk to him , I 'll explain t he problem . He 'll listen to - Without the drug , he 's dead .
LEONARD: He 's all right .
SAYER: I 'm all right , how are you ?
LEONARD: Never better .
SAYER: And these gentlemen ?
LEONARD: That 's the thing , is n't it , you never know who . Someone I least expect , I expect . Look at history .
SAYER: Every patient in this ward thinks there 's a plot against him , Leonard .
LEONARD: Yeah , well they 're mistaken , they 're crazy . j ..
SAYER: Something 's wrong .
LEONARD: Hey , I appreciate you coming to see me , I have some things to do .
SAYER: Look at yourself , Leonard .
LEONARD: Disease took mjs out of the world , I fought to come back , I failed for 30 years but at least I fought , look at you .
LEONARD: I want to be back .
SAYER: He 's aware of his appearance . He 's less concerned with it than he is with the effect it may have
ANTHONY: Welcome back .
LEONARD: Thanks .
LEONARD: This is new . . .
SAYER: I ' d love to see it .
LEONARD: It 's here somewhere . . .
SAYER: It 's all right , I 'll see it some
LEONARD: Get the camera get the camera get
SAYER: Good .
LEONARD: No , I can do it .
MRS. LOWE: What you see in that girl . . . I do n't get it .
LEONARD: Yeah .
MRS. LOWE: You should n't do that , you know .
LEONARD: I know .
SAYER: What happened ?
MRS. LOWE: I said a terrible thing . . .
LEONARD: she , she , she , she
SAYER: What happened ?
LEONARD: she devoted her life to me . . .
MRS. LOWE: . . . I said the most terrible thing . . .
LEONARD: . . . I ' m ungrateful . . . I 'm ungrateful . . .
MRS. LOWE: I 'm sorry . . . I 'm sorry . . .
ROSE: You 'd never know it now , but I used to be so pretty , Dr. Sayer , even you would 've thought so .
SAYER: I do think so .
FRANCIS: What if it 's just a matter of time for all of us ?
BERT: He 's the strongest of us .
LUCY: Comes love 's old song Comes love 's old sweet song . . . Her voice trails into silence .
MISS COSTELLO: That was lovely . ' .
MRS. LOWE: When my son was born healthy , I never asked why . Why was I sp lucky , what did I do to deserve this perfect child , this perfect life ? - Silence . Her face toughens .
SAYER: He 's fighting , Mrs -
MRS. LOWE: He 's losing .
LEONARD: I ca n't read anymore . The words are written too slow . I keep going back to the beginning , to the beginning , and trying . . .
SAYER:  You have not .
LEONARD: I 've let you down .
SAYER: You have not .
LEONARD: I 'm grotesque . . . grotesque . . . grotesque . . .
SAYER: Leonard , I wo n't sit here and listen to you talk about yourself like this
LEONARD: Look at me .
SAYER: You are not .
LEONARD: This . . . is n't . . . me .
PAULA: .. I worked . . . I had friends
LEONARD: Like what ? Those are great things . I 've never done any of those things .
PAULA: You will . Leonard shakes his nead 'no . '
LEONARD: They 'll never let me out of this place . They should n't .
PAULA: I can see it .
LEONARD: Goodbye . 
SAYER: You told him I was a kind man It 's kind to give life only to take it away ?
MISS COSTELLO: It 's given and taken away from all of us .
SAYER: Why does n't that comfort me ?
MISS COSTELLO: Because you are kind . And because he 's your friend .
LEONARD: Am I speaking ?
SAYER: Do you think you can walk ?
FERNANDO: You got a minute ?
DR. TYLER: What is it ?
FERNANDO: You know that woman in Ward 7 . . . Grace , uh what 's her last name Grace
DR. TYLER: Does it matter , Fernando ?
FERNANDO: . . . no . . . I guess not . . .
DR. SULLIVAN: Yeah ?
T~^\: ( iJ Leonard pass .
SAYER: Yes ?
MISS COSTELLO: What 's wrong ?
SAYER: Nothing No , I was wo nde rin g . .. W hat ar e
SA YER: Because I was wondering . . . m aybe you h ave n o pla ns .. . ?
SAYER: Maybe we could just . . . go for a walk ?
MISS COSTELLO: I 'd be delighted .
LEONARD: , They 're so life-like .
HECTOR: How 'bout those Jets ?
LEONARD: I like them .
HECTOR: Broadway Joe .
LEONARD: Yeah .
HECTOR: Youre not from here .
LEONARD: I am . I was born here . But.I 've een away a long time .
HECTOR: Where ?
LEONARD: The Bronx .
HECTOR: I do n't mind sitting here if you do n't , but to what end are we sitting here ?
LEONARD: I do n't need it , you keep it .
HECTOR: Beautiful , is n't it .
LEONARD: Unforgettable .
HECTOR: I thank God for him every day . Every single day .
LEONARD: I have to be leaving . I want to th-ank you . You 've been very kind to me .
HECTOR: Leave ? You 're our guest , we got dinner coming . We 're having something to eat .
LEONARD: I ca n't .
HECTOR: Hey -
LEONARD: It has no value to me , believe ; me .
HECTOR: I do n't want it .
LEONARD: It 's for your son . It 's for him .
HECTOR: At least let me give you a lift wherever you 're going .
LEONARD: No , I think I ' d like to walk . . Thank you .
HECTOR: What 's wrong with you , Len ?
LEONARD: Bye .
SAYER: I ' m sorry to wake you , but there 's someone here to see you .
PAULA: `` Night is generally my time fo walking . In the summer , I often leave home early in the morning and roam about fields and lanes . ' `` ^ all day . Or even escape fo days or weeks together . . .
