BOBBY: Get off the goddamn road !
DARRELL: Nope . Darrell .
BOBBY: Harlin around ?
DARRELL: He 's up at the Look Out .
BOBBY: Will he be back soon ?
DARRELL: Doubt it . He 's dead . The Look Out 's a cemetery .
BOBBY: You own this place ?
DARRELL: Yep .
BOBBY: Then why do you call it Harlin 's ?
DARRELL: 'Cause Harlin used to own it .
BOBBY: But he 's dead .
DARRELL: So ?
BOBBY: You want to take a look at my car ? I think the radiator hose is
DARRELL: Damn . Gon na be another hot one today . Sometimes I do n't even want to get out of ed . Course do n't want to get out for the cold one 's neither . Then of course the clouds come in
BOBBY: Look , Harlin , I 've got places to be .
DARRELL: Darrell
BOBBY: OK. Darrell Could you just take a look at my radiator hose . It 's busted .
DARRELL: It 's your radiator hose . It 's busted .
BOBBY: I know it 's busted . What did I just tell you ?
DARRELL: Well , you know so much why do n't you just fix it yourself ?
BOBBY: If I could do you think I 'd be standing here wasting my time . Can you fix it , o do I have to go somewhere else ?
DARRELL: Somewhere else ? Mister , somewhere else is fifty miles from here . Only other gas station down in town closed 3 years ago when the mine got shut
BOBBY: Okay , I 'm stuck . You happy ? Now can you fix it , or not ?
DARRELL: Yeah , I can fix it .
BOBBY: Great !
DARRELL: Got ta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one , or close enough . Gon na take time .
BOBBY: How much time ?
DARRELL: Time . BOBBY What time is it now ?
BOBBY: Jesus . Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already .
DARRELL: Ninety-two . Course half hour from now might be seventy-two . These clouds move around a lot .
BOBBY: Accident .
DARRELL: You got to be more careful . Hands is important . Let me show you something . When I was a kid , now I do n't know if you can still see it , but I gashed my fingers in a lawnmower .
BOBBY: I 'm very interested in this but is there someplace
DARRELL: Diner up a piece . Not much , but us simple folk like it .
BOBBY: I 'll be back in a couple of hours . And be careful with her , will you ? Darrell slams down the hood .
DARRELL: Just a car .
BOBBY: It 's not just a car . It 's a sixty-four and half Mustang convertible . That 's the difference between you and me , and why you live here and I 'm just passing through .
BLIND MAN: Hey ! You there !
BOBBY: You want something , old man ?
BLIND MAN: Do n't call me old man . Ai n't you got no respect , boy ?
BOBBY: You want something ?
BLIND MAN: Yeah I want something . I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop .
BOBBY: You ca n't do that yourself ?
BLIND MAN: Hell no , I ca n't do that myself . I 'm lind . Ca n't you see that ?
BOBBY: I 'm sorry , I did n't
BLIND MAN: What 'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on ? Sunnin ' myself ?
BOBBY: I do n't know . I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes .
BLIND MAN: I ai n't got no eyes . You want to see ?
BOBBY: Christ no !
BLIND MAN: Lost my eyes in Vyee-et-nam . Lost them fighting the commies . Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin ' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of me .
BOBBY: I said I was sorry .
BLIND MAN: Do n't be sorry . Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst .
BOBBY: Yeah , sure . You got change ?
BLIND MAN: Change ? You want my change ? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change ?
BOBBY: All right , old man . Christ .
BLIND MAN: Get me a Dr. Peppa ! I do n't want no Colas . Colas ai n't nothing but flavored water .
BOBBY: Christ !
BLIND MAN: A little for Mother Earth . I 'm about fifty percent Indian , you know . To all ou elations . He takes a hearty swig of the soda .
BOBBY: I 'll pass .
BLIND MAN: That 's 'cause he 's dead . Bobby jumps back .
BOBBY: Oh , Jesus .
BLIND MAN: I hope you was n't pettin ' him none , was you ?
BOBBY: What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for ?
BLIND MAN: He 's only just dead . What was I supposed to do with him ? I ca n't take him away anywhere . And nobody wants to take him fo me . Do you ?
BOBBY: Hell no !
BLIND MAN: See . Ai n't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me . That 's where he belongs anyways . Me and Jesse , that 's my dog , not anymore , but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes . He was just a pup then a companion that 's loyal , that 'll keep coming back to you no matter how much you kick himI miss him . I 'll see ya later , unless I come across something worse .
BOBBY: Can I give you a hand , beautiful ?
GRACE: I 'm just going to my car ?
BOBBY: That 's right on my way .
GRACE: My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers .
BOBBY: My name is Bobby . Now I 'm not a strange anymore . See how easy it is for us to get to know each other , beautiful ?
GRACE: Do you have to call me that ?
BOBBY: I do n't know your real name .
GRACE: Maybe I do n't want you to . Grace stops walking .
BOBBY: Maybe , but if you did n't I think you would have kept on walking .
GRACE: You 're pretty full of yourself , are n't you ?
BOBBY: I like that about me , beautiful .
GRACE: It 's Grace .
BOBBY: May I carry your package , Grace ?
GRACE: You sure you can manage ?
BOBBY: I got it .
GRACE: Do you want me to carry your pack for you ? Bobby blurts out emphatically .
BOBBY: No ! He catches himself , and softens a bit .
GRACE: What happened to your hand ?
BOBBY: Accident .
GRACE: You should be more careful . They start walking towards Grace 's car .
BOBBY: No trouble at all , really .
GRACE: Oh , this is n't my car . It 's down a ways . I should have parked closer . I just did n't think it would be so heavy . I could drive up .
BOBBY: That 's all right . I got it .
GRACE: It 's just new drapes and curtain rods . If I had known it was going to be so heavy I would have had them delivered up to the house .
BOBBY: You 're welcome , Grace .
GRACE: You 're not from around here , are you ?
BOBBY: Why you say that ? Just because I help a lady with her package ?
GRACE: You do n't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day .
BOBBY: I just drove in this morning .
GRACE: Drove into Superior ? What for ?
BOBBY: Did n't have a choice . My car overheated up the road .
GRACE: You 're lucky you did n't break down in the desert . Day like today , you 'd be dead in no time . When you leaving ?
BOBBY: Not until my car 's fixed . I do n't know how long that 's going to take .
GRACE: And here I 've made you all hot and sweaty .
SHERIFF: Morning Grace .
GRACE: Morning Sheriff . Got my drapes .
SHERIFF: Well it 's about time . Looks like you found yourself a helper too . Bobby wants to shrink behind the drapes .
GRACE: Well , he offered , and I just could n't efuse . His car overheated .
SHERIFF: Oh ?
BOBBY: Morning , officer .
SHERIFF: Son . Little excitement out at the reservation this morning . Wayne and Dale Elkhart were up drinking all night and then Wayne starts chasing Dale around the desert with his shotgun . BIA handled it . I went by fo ackup .
GRACE: Anybody hurt ?
SHERIFF: Hell , no . That Wayne ca n't shoot when he 's sober , much less drunk . He 's lucky he did n't kill his own danged self . Well , anyhow , you stay cool . Nice meeting you , son .
BOBBY: Same here , officer .
GRACE: Well , I guess I could use some help getting this box into the house . Not far . You could shower , get something cool to drink .
BOBBY: Well , I could use something cool .
GRACE: Where you coming from ?
BOBBY: All over . Chicago , Houston , Detroit . Just lately Dallas .
GRACE: You 've been around .
BOBBY: I guess I 've got wander in my blood .
GRACE: Where you headed ?
BOBBY: I do n't know . I have to make a stop in Vegas . Business to finish . Then maybe I 'll head to Santa Barbara . I might be able to pick up some action there .
GRACE: So , what is it you do , Mister ?
BOBBY: Cooper . Bobby Cooper . Oh you know , whateve pays best . Little bartending , used to teach tennis , played a little competition .
GRACE: I never played tennis . You just travel around Bobby no direction , no steady work . You must like taking chances .
BOBBY: If you 're going to gamble , might as well play for high stakes .
GRACE: What happens when you lose ?
BOBBY: I pack up and go somewhere else . GRACE Somewhere else . I 've never been anywhere else . Just once . Years ago . Went to the State Fair . It was nice , but it was n't nothing .
GRACE: Sometimes I feel the exact same way .
BOBBY: Look , I 'll get the money ! You do n't want to do this !
BOBBY: That 's good . Cools you right off . I saw you watching me .
GRACE: I 'm sorry . I did n't mean to .
BOBBY: I did n't say it bothered me .
GRACE: Did you like it ; me watching you ?
BOBBY: I guess . I 've got an ego same as any man .
GRACE: Good , 'cause I liked what I saw .
BOBBY: Nice place .
GRACE: Thank you .
BOBBY: Who 's that , your father ? GRACE Stepfather BOBBY Got a boyfriend ?
GRACE: No . Not really . Bobby senses she 's lying but plays along .
BOBBY: Must get kind of lonely for a woman living y herself in a big house .
GRACE: I guess it must .
BOBBY: What do you do anyway ?
GRACE: A little of this , a little of that . Mostly I tell fortunes .
BOBBY: Where 'd you learn to do that ?
GRACE: From my father . He was the tribe 's shaman .
BOBBY: A medicine man ?
GRACE: Those are white words , not ours .
BOBBY: Nice house for a shaman 's daughter . You must be good .
GRACE: Come here .
BOBBY: My face tell you all that ?
GRACE: It tells me what every face tells me . Everybody has a past , they have a pain , and they have something they want . What is it you want ?
BOBBY: The same thing you do . They silently stare into each other 's eyes .
GRACE: Really ? I want to hang drapes .
BOBBY: What ?
GRACE: Lift me down .
BOBBY: Like you .
GRACE: Beautiful ? BOBBY Like they 're made of polyester .
BOBBY: Nothing like a little liveliness .
GRACE: No more drapes to hang . Now what should we do ?
BOBBY: I have an idea .
GRACE: And what would that be ?
BOBBY: All right , Grace . No more games . GRACE Games ?
GRACE: Really ? And what game did you want to play ? You carry my box for me , and I fall into bed with you ? Bobby grabs up his pack .
BOBBY: I think I can find my own way back to into town .
GRACE: Maybe I like to find out about a man first . Maybe I like to know what he 's made of .
BOBBY: I 'm just flesh and blood , baby . That and a few memories of bad women ; just like most guys . But you already know that . You read my mind , remember ? Thanks for the lemonade . Bobby turns to leave .
GRACE: You never did answer my question .
BOBBY: Still playing ?
GRACE: That 's not an answer . What is it you want ?
BOBBY: You know what I want .
GRACE: Maybe I just want to hear you say it .
JAKE: Who the hell is this ! ?
BOBBY: Who the hell are you ?
JAKE: I 'm her husband . BOBBY Husband ?
BOBBY: Easy , chief . I I was helping your wife . I met her in town . She needed a hand with her drapes . That 's all .
JAKE: Did n't much look like you were hanging drapes .
BOBBY: I swear to you that 's all that happened . I have n't so much as set foot in you edroom .
JAKE: A lot that means .
BOBBY: Grace , tell him .
JAKE: Oh yeah , and I suppose you did n't have anything to do with it Grace , he just wandered up here by hisself . I got a mind to put you over my knee and paddle you ass raw ! BOBBY You bitch ! Is this what it 's all about ? You sucker me up here so you can watch the two of us beat the shit out of each other ove you ? You both Forget it !
BOBBY: You broke my nose !
JAKE: It ai n't broke .
BOBBY: Goddamn it ! I 'm you 're lucky I do n't sue you . JAKE Get goin ' Junior .
JAKE: I 'll give you a lift , son . Too hot to be walking People die out here , y'know . Bobby continues walking .
BOBBY: Yeah
JAKE: Say , what happened to your hand ?
BOBBY: Accident .
JAKE: You 've got to be
BOBBY: Yeah , I know . More careful .
JAKE: I guess we 've never been introduced proper . Jake McKenna .
BOBBY: That 's a solid name .
JAKE: I 'm a solid man .
BOBBY: Bobby Cooper .
JAKE: `` Bobby Cooper . '' What brings you to Superior , Coop ?
BOBBY: An overheated car .
JAKE: Oh ? Darrell taking good care of you ?
BOBBY: Darrell 's a moron . JAKE Yeah , he sure is a character . You need any help with that car now ? Where you headed ?
JAKE: Live there ?
BOBBY: Got work . I know a man who 's got a boat . Wants me to sail it for him .
JAKE: You a sailor man ? That 'd be the life . Drive across the country , step on a boat and just sail away . A man could pretty well disappear like that . Just sail away until all he was was a memory . I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile .
BOBBY: I hope so . Listen , McKenna about your wife If I had known she was married
JAKE: It would n't have made a difference to you , now would it ? Not a wit . Do you know why ? Because you 're a man without scruples .
BOBBY: Wait a second
JAKE: Ah , I can smell it on you .
BOBBY: Hey !
JAKE: That 's the sweat of a man who has n't an honest bone in his body . Do n't be offended , lad . A man who 's got no ethics is a free man . I envy that . Beside , how can I blame you ? That Grace sure has a mind of her own , and a body to match , do n't she ? Eh ? Jake nudges Bobby who smiles a nervous smile .
BOBBY: Ca n't live with them , and you ca n't shoot 'em .
JAKE: `` You ca n't shoot 'em ! '' I like that . I bet she led you on good , did n't she ? Taking you up to the house to hang drapes . Oh that 's a good one . Bet she had you hard as a rock wiggling her ass in you face . I bet you just wanted to pull down her pants and hog her out . Then me busting in like some wild bear . Ha ! Bet you had a fire going under you .
BOBBY: Like you do n't know .
JAKE: Mad like a dog in heat , I bet you were . I can tell you got a temper on you . Bobby gives a little laugh .
BOBBY: Would I what ?
JAKE: Would you kill her ? Bobby starts to laugh . Bobby stops laughing .
BOBBY: I 've done a few things but I 'm not a murderer , Mr. McKenna .
JAKE: How do you know if you 've never tried ?
BOBBY: This is a joke , right ? You just want to attle me . Right ?
JAKE: That 's right . Nothing but a joke . That 's all .
BOBBY: Who are these people ?
WOMAN: Eh ?
BOBBY: Soda . You got any soda ?
WOMAN: Hablar slowly , por favor . My ingles no es ien .
BOBBY: Soda . You know .
WOMAN: Oh . Something to eat . Si . She holds up a pack of Twinkies .
BOBBY: Not eat . Drink . What the fuck is drink in Spanish uh , agua ?
BIKER: That 's right , lady . Keep it in you and nobody gets hurt . That goes for you too , stud . Gimmie the money . Now !
WOMAN: Eh ?
SECOND BIKER: The dinero , Senora . Hand it over .
BIKER: That 's it ? Lady , I got kids to put through school .
WOMAN: Es all I have . The biker turns to Bobby .
BIKER: Okay , pal . Whatcha got ? Give it , now .
BOBBY: It 's just books .
BIKER: I 'm a reader . Toss it . BOBBY It 's personal thingsfamily things .
BOBBY: No .
BIKER: No ?
SECOND BIKER: Hey man , forget it . Come on .
BIKER: No ?
WOMAN: Senor , give him the bag .
BIKER: That 's all right . He does n't want to give me the bag
SECOND BIKER: He 's fucking with you man . Shoot him . BIKER he does n't have to give me the bag .
BIKER: A little extra never hurt , Benji , would you just relax .
WOMAN: No ! No ! My wedding ring .
BIKER: Now we go .
WOMAN: You go to El Diablo !
SECOND BIKER: Bugger ! You bitch !
WOMAN: I call the sheriff .
BOBBY: No ! No police . Bobby gives her a hundred dollars .
WOMAN: A hundred dollars ? No police ?
BOBBY: No police until I leave .
DARRELL: Hey , your what the hell happened to you ?
BOBBY: Nothing .
DARRELL: Do n't look like nothing .
BOBBY: Just banged my head . It was an accident .
DARRELL: Another accident ? You got to be more careful .
BOBBY: What the hell happened to my car ?
DARRELL: Bottom hose was shot too . Rotted clea through . Had to put a new one in . Runs like a dream now . BOBBY How much ?
BOBBY: How much ! ?
DARRELL: Hundred-fifty .
BOBBY: To replace a goddamn radiator hose ! ?
DARRELL: A goddamn radiator hose in a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang . You know how long it took me to find that hose ?
BOBBY: About an hour and a half , because that 's all the longer I 've been gone .
DARRELL: Actually , it 's been about three hours . You 're the one thinks that car 's so damn fancy . What you expect but fancy damn prices ?
BOBBY: That 's a Ford , not a Ferrari . You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford ?
DARRELL: `` That 's not just a Ford , that 's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang . ''
BOBBY: What 's that got to do with the radiator hose ?
DARRELL: I do n't know , but `` it 's the reason I 'm living
BOBBY: It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars , because I do n't have the money .
DARRELL: Then you ai n't gon na have the car .
BOBBY: Listen , man . I got rolled half an hour ago for everything I had .
DARRELL: Then you 're only a hundred-forty-five in the hole . You can keep that dollar . Now why do n't you just take your American Express Gold Card , and call that guy with the big schnooz on TV and have him send you the money lickity split .
BOBBY: I do n't have a goddamn credit card .
DARRELL: Now that 's too bad . I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you 're gon na have to work this one off . Bobby proffers his Movado watch .
BOBBY: Look , I got a Movado . It 's worth at least seven , eight hundred . You could sell it fo that . DARRELL Who the hell to ? Shit , ca n't see no numbers .
DARRELL: got no day , got no date . Probably ai n't worth a duck 's fart . This one here cost me $ 3.75 and it 's got every doodad you can imagine . No sir I 'll stick with this .
BOBBY: You son of a bitch ! I 'll have my lawyers shut you down .
DARRELL: You ai n't got no credit card but you got a lawyer . Sweet talk me all you want . Did n't you read the sign ? It says
BOBBY: What sign ? Fuck the sign . I want my car .
DARRELL: I want my hundred and forty-five dollars .
ED: One-hundred-thirteen degrees . That was ack in July of forty-seven . That afternoon it dropped down to forty three ! True story .
BOYD: One time last year I remember it went from 98 to 23 same day . Wind , black clouds come out like
BOBBY: You got a beer ?
FLO: What kind ?
BOBBY: Beck 's .
FLO: No Beck 's . A-1 , Coors
BOBBY: Heineken ?
FLO: No , we ai n't got no Heineken . We got Miller .
BOBBY: Genuine Draft ?
FLO: No . Just plain ol ' Miller . Now you can fuckin ' take it or you can fuckin ' leave it .
BOBBY: I 'll fuckin ' take it . To go .
FLO: I 'll be right back with that beer . Flo moves off .
BOBBY: and a waitress named Flo . Christ .
JENNY: Hey , Mister . You got ta quarter for the juke ?
BOBBY: What ?
JENNY: I wan na play a song on the juke . You got a quarter ?
BOBBY: I cut it shaving ; I know , I got ta be more careful .
JENNY: Got any requests ?
BOBBY: That country shit all sounds the same to me .
JENNY: How about I pick one out for you ?
BOBBY: Cause she 's dead .
JENNY: Gee , that 's sad . Do n't that make you sad ?
BOBBY: I 've had time to get over it .
JENNY: You 're not from around here , are you ? Where you from ?
BOBBY: Oz .
JENNY: You ai n't from Oz . Oz is in that movie .
BOBBY: You 're too quick for me .
TOBY: No.No.No I 'm seeing but I 'm not elievin'Stop the wedding . This ca n't e. Hey ! What are you doing with my girl ? Bobby says nothing , ignoring Toby .
JENNY: Aw , Toby , we were n't doing nothing . We was just talking .
TOBY: You shut your mouth , girl , and get back over to our table . Now , I 'm not going to axe you again , Mister . What were you doing with my girl ?
BOBBY: I was n't doing anything .
TOBY: That 's not the way it looked to me . Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her .
BOBBY: Make time ? Is everybody in this town on drugs ?
JENNY: Honest , Toby . I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox .
TOBY: Stay out of this , Jenny . We got man 's usiness to take care of . I ai n't neve taken no drugs , mister , and
BOBBY: Then maybe you should 've . Look , pal , I was n't making a play for your girl .
TOBY: You expect me to believe that ?
BOBBY: I do n't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone .
TOBY: Mister , I 'm calling you out .
BOBBY: What ? You want to fight ? Over her ? Bobby looks Jenny over .
FLO: Toby , you go finish your soda and leave the man alone . TOBY You know who I am ? Toby N. Tucker . Everyone round here call me TNT . You know why ?
BOBBY: Let 's seethey 're not very imaginative ?
TOBY: 'Cause I 'm just like dynamite . And when I go off , somebody gets hurt .
BOBBY: Fine . I was making time with your girl . Now I 'm scared to death and I learned my lesson . Now can you go away ?
TOBY: Not before I settle with you , chickenshit !
BOBBY: Christ , I do n't believe this !
TOBY: Stand up .
BOBBY: I was n't hitting on your girl !
TOBY: Stand up , Mister , or I 'll beat you where you sit .
FLO: Toby , you stop it now ! Ca n't you see he 's got a hurt hand ?
TOBY: Do n't you never mind , Flo . This is gon na e over real quick .
FLO: My lord , that little baby of yours Virgil , has gotten cuter ' n a bunny 's nose .
SHERIFF: What was that all about ?
FLO: You know how that Toby is . Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny .
SHERIFF: More like Jenny is after every man she sees . FLO You pay Toby no mind . He just likes to show off for his girl . Give him a couple of hours , he 'll cool off . Still want that eer ? BOBBY I 'll take it to go .
ED: How 's it with you , Sheriff ?
SHERIFF: Already started out bad . Couple of bikers from out of town tried to knock ove Jamilla 's grocery store this morning . It was a real shootout .
BOYD: What happened ?
SHERIFF: The old witch killed 'em both .
ED: Holy shit !
FLO: Poor thing . Is she all right ?
SHERIFF: Sure , when the sons of bitches tried to steal her wedding ring . That 's when she started shooting . Ca n't blame her . The ing was all Carlos left her when he died . Store 's a mess .
BOYD: It 's the desert . That 's what it is . The desert makes everybody crazy . Ai n't that ight , Sheriff ? People go crazy out here .
ED: Come on , Boyd . I 've got to make tracks . That yogurt 's got to make Santa Fe before it spoils .
BOYD: Dr. Pepper do n't have that problem .
FLO: I ca n't open off-sale for you , sugar .
SHERIFF: Flo , I 'm just gon na help myself to a refill on the coffee .
FLO: You be careful now , Virgil .
SHERIFF: Son of a bitch !
FLO: Virgil ! Now look at what you done ! Are you all right ?
SHERIFF: I think I burned my gun hand !
FLO: I could put some butter on it , hon ' . It 'd serve you right , you asshole . Put it unde some cold water . Joe , run get a mop and clean this fuckin ' mess up .
BOBBY: Sure , I 'll try .
GAMBLER'S VOICE: Pluto . Fucking deadbeat . We head about you . You owe `` the commie '' 13 dimes , why you tryin ' to get in my office ? Lose this fuckin ' number .
BOBBY: MikeMikeyou asshole .
GAMBLER'S VOICE: Mike who ? Bobby , frustrated , clicks off .
SERGEI: Da ?
MR. ARKADY: Sergei , what are you , a Neanderthal ? How many times do I have to tell you ? You answer a phone `` hello , '' not `` da . '' SERGEI Sorry , Mr . Arkady. '' Hello ? ''
SERGEI: Mr. Arkady , deadbeat Cooper 's calling . Mr. Arkady does n't acknowledge him .
BOBBY: I know , Mr. Arkadin . I know . I was on my way to you , it 's just what a day I 've had . I know I 'm coming up with a highly improbable story , and I know you 're not going to believe this , but this is
MR. ARKADY: That 's a shame , Bobby . A real shame .
BOBBY: And that 's not the half of it , Mr. Arkadin
MR. ARKADY: `` Arkady ''
BOBBY: Right , Mr. Arkady . And that 's not the half of it . I got your money , and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then well , it gets robbed !
MR. ARKADY: And let me guess . This robber he gets your money .
MR. ARKADY: The old lady ?
MR. ARKADY: Now , let me get this straight . Two years you give me problems with your fuckin ' payoffs . Now you owe me thirteen-thousand dollars , you call me - collect - then ask me to wire you one-hundred-fifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed .
BOBBY: Shit I 'm sorry ! you ca n't believe the strain I 'm under . I 'm just under a lot of strain here .
MR. ARKADY: Bobby , you owed me that 'bread ' 4 weeks ago . Now you tell me you want another week . That 's 5 weeks , Bobby . That 's also 5 fingers , cause you and I know it 's a finge a week Bobby . So you got balls . Goodnow you come here tomorrow and you talk to me eal nice and maybe I do n't take the othe 3 fingers you owe me , you see ? Tomorrow and Bobby , do n't make me come look for you , okayhave nice day . He hands the phone back to Sergei . SERGEI You got that ? have nice day .
SOFIA: Finger ? What are you , a faggot ? In my country a man do n't pay we cut off his head . Arkady motions Sergei to come close .
MR. ARKADY: Get your ass down to this Superior , Arizona . Bring me this Bobby Cooper . I do n't think he got the lesson . This is you last chance , Sergei .
SERGEI: Da .
BOBBY: Hello ?
JAKE: What can I do for you , lad ?
BOBBY: I was hoping we could talk .
JAKE: Talk ? About what ?
BOBBY: About things . About your wife .
JAKE: Sweet Grace ? What about her ?
BOBBY: About what you said this morning .
JAKE: I do .
BOBBY: You said you 'd cut that up with the man who did her in .
JAKE: I did ?
BOBBY: Do n't play simple with me , Jake . You 're a etting man . You want me to spell it out for you ? I 'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money .
BOBBY: I 'm not rambling .
JAKE: You 're talking like a madman .
BOBBY: Well then , I guess that qualifies me fo citizenship in this town . You 're the one ought it up . This morning . In your car .
JAKE: Oh , that was just loose talk . Husband gettin ' pissed off . I do n't want anybody dead .
BOBBY: Bullshit . You wanted me to kill her .
JAKE: A man does n't always mean the things he says .
BOBBY: You meant it .
JAKE: What makes you say that ?
BOBBY: Because you 're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money .
JAKE: And what does that make you ?
BOBBY: The slimy bastard who 's going to do it fo you You 're a jealous man Jake . If you ca n't have Grace to yourselfwell , you 're not the sharing kind . For a moment Jake stares quietly at Bobby .
JAKE: Well , I guess I have what you call a love-hate relationship with Grace .
BOBBY: You love her , but you hate her ?
JAKE: No , I hate loving her . I hate the kind of person she is . I hate having to tolerate the little `` games '' she plays . Like fucking half of the town behind my back and laughing at me . The bitch . She loved to play . She wants me to hit her and when I hit her she likes it . She tortures me . But she 's family . She 's my little girl . My aby . I could n't stand to watch her eyes oll back in her head as she sucks her last eath , or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull . No . Not me . But you ? You got the killing in you , boyHow much you want ? A pause .
BOBBY: Make it twenty . JAKE Twenty-thousand ? I do n't have that kind of money . I wo n't get the insurance until months after she 's dead . I do n't imagine you 'll want to be stickin ' around afte poor Grace 's demise . Twenty-thousand ; that 's more money than I could ever get my hands on .
JAKE: Maybe ten-thousand . And that 's a maybe .
BOBBY: I need thirteen .
JAKE: That 's a bit much .
BOBBY: We 're not talking about buying a car Jake . We 're talking about killing your wife . It 's thirteen , or it 's nothing .
JAKE: You drive a hard bargain , but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you .
BOBBY: I 'm not your boy . I do n't like you . I got no choice but to do business with you . Let 's just call this a nasty little marriage of convenience .
JAKE: Do n't say that . I had a marriage of convenience with Grace , and look where that 's lead Well , looks like we got ourselves a contract . BOBBY Do we shake hands ?
BOBBY: How do you want it ?
JAKE: How the hell should I know ? I 've never had a wife killed before . Jesus Christ ! You < /u want this job , you do n't know how to do this ? I guess I should have hired a professional .
BOBBY: You want to do this yourself ? I do n't have to do this , you know .
JAKE: Be quiet , boy . I got to figure this thing . I 'm thinking . It ca n't be done at the house . It should be Jake walks the office thinking .
BOBBY: Come to think of it , how 'bout some money upfront ?
JAKE: Oh yeah sure . Why do n't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I 'm at it . I u > know you This is what you do Go to the house to see her .
BOBBY: And tell her what ?
GRACE: How do you know he 's still not here ?
BOBBY: Guys like me take those chances . Let 's go .
GRACE: They hear you comin ' . They wo n't bothe you . Just do n't sneak up on 'em .
BOBBY: Does n't the isolation bother you ?
GRACE: Yeah , but I like the sun . I grew up on a eservation . The sun , the desert ; they like a religion to us . Jake 's the same way . He loves the desert . I guess we 're alike that way . That 's about the only way .
BOBBY: You love him ?
GRACE: No .
BOBBY: Did you ever ?
GRACE: Depends on what you call love . I grew up on a reservation . A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere . That 's where they stick Indians , Bobby . That 's where they leave us to die . My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he could n't take it anymore . There 's no hope there Jake was my ticket out . Mom and me .
BOBBY: Is that why you 're with him ?
GRACE: I let him think he was courtin ' me , but I eeled him in like a fish on a line . I wanted him . I wanted what he could give me , and I would 've done anything to get him . Is that love ?
BOBBY: I 'm guessing no .
GRACE: Yeah , I guess you 're right .
BOBBY: I take it things did n't much work out the way you planned .
GRACE: I 'm still here , are n't I ? See this ?
GRACE CONT: All this nothing ? It does n't get to Jake like it gets to me . He says he do n't mind eing nothing but a big fish in a small pond . More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole .
BOBBY: You could leave him .
GRACE: I do n't know how .
BOBBY: Walk away .
GRACE: It 's not that easy . Maybe you can take chances ; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please . I ca n't . I do n't want to be alone . I need to know I 'm going to be taken care of .
BOBBY: You need a meal ticket is what you mean . Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here .
GRACE: Is that so bad ? It 's not like I would n't try to make him happy . For awhile , anyway . I mean , I would do things for him . I guess I 'm no good that way . I guess I tried to sucker you along like that . Do you hate me for it ? I would n't blame you if you did . But maybe it 's like you said You just got to do whatever it takes to get out . BOBBY Whatever it takes . Grace steps to the edge of the plateau .
GRACE CONT: If I was a bird I would fly to Florida ; to Disney World . I always wanted to go there . I 'd fly to New York . Maybe . I guess New York is n't the best place to be a bird . I 'd fly to St. Louis , then New Orleans , all over Texas . Then I 'd fly to California . I guess by then I 'd have seen it all and I could die .
GRACE: Hate 's a funny thing . Right now I bet you do n't know if you want to kill me , or fuck me .
BOBBY: What 's the matter ? Grace ?
GRACE: Nothing .
BOBBY: Do n't feel like nothing .
GRACE: Get out of town , Bobby , as quick as you can .
BOBBY: Grace , I 've been fucked over too many times , by too many women . You 're becoming the queen of hot and cold .
GRACE: You 'd never understand .
BOBBY: Try me .
GRACE: It 's just such a mess . With Jake I mean
BOBBY: Nothing I understand better than a mess . GRACE Jake was with my Mom after my real Dad died .
GRACE: He was a Shamanin the mine . We had nothin ' after he died . Jake took us in , gave us a little money . He used to call me his `` little halfbreed '' He kept Mom on the side y'know , cause he was married someplace else . He had kids in Phoenix I think , no one knew him around herebut the thing wasyou see he was raping me the whole timefo years . He loved to do things to me . Believe it or not , he used to say he was in love with my ass . Y'ever been in love with a woman 's ass ? The dominoes are tumbling for Bobby .
BOBBY: Yeah .
GRACE: You 're sick toohe loved to do things to me . Control me . My Momit tore her up cause she could n't do nothing about it . She ecome alcoholicand the funny thing is I liked it . I liked being controlled by Jake . The truth was as far out and crazy as
BOBBY: I 'm sorry
GRACE: Yeah . What do you want . Life , right ? Have you ever been to California ?
BOBBY: Yeah . GRACE Is it far from here ?
GRACE: Is it pretty ?
BOBBY: Oh yeah . It 's beautiful , beautiful beaches . Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see . GRACE Would you take me with you ? BOBBY I wish I could .
GRACE: Please . I wo n't hang on you . As soon as we get there you can dump me . I do n't care . I just want to get out of here .
GRACE: Darrell ? You know he and Jake are
BOBBY: You do n't have any money put away , do you ?
GRACE: Jake never gives me more ' n twenty bucks at a time , like a bird in a cage , he do n't want me goin ' anywhere
BOBBY: you could get me money . I 'll get you out of here . She looks at him .
GRACE: There 's money . A lot . The words hang there , thick between them .
BOBBY: Where ?
GRACE: Jake hides it . In a safe . In the floor . In the bedroom . He counts it . He loves to sit there and count it .
BOBBY: What do you mean ?
GRACE: At night . He just sits there and laughs and talks to himself and counts it . I heard him . My Mom told me he had a hunnert thousand dollars down there . Maybe more . Bobby 's eyes widen in hope .
BOBBY: In cash ?
GRACE: Oh yeah . There 's nothing else with Jake . He do n't trust banks . He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed . He loves it so much , he would n't think of spending any of it on me . I never seen it but I know he 's got more than a hunnert thousand at least
BOBBY: One-hundred-thousand ! ? That son-of-a-bitch . GRACE What do you mean ? BOBBY If it 's in a safe we 'd have to get the combination
GRACE: It takes a key . He keeps it on himself all the time . I mean all the time . It scratches up against me when we do it .
BOBBY: If the key 's on him , how do we get the key ?
GRACE: Kill him .
BOBBY: I ca n't kill , Grace . I ca n't kill anybody .
GRACE: It 's not like he 's a young man , Bobby . He 's had time to live . It 'd be quick . I mean , he would n't even have to feel it I mean , sometime in the middle of the night , when it 's quietwhen he 's asleep , you could just come up behind him when he 's pounding on me and
BOBBY: Shit ! Listen to you Are you crazy , Grace ? He abruptly pulls away .
GRACE: But it 's in you , Bobby . I see it . I see Death . It 's in your heart . Let it out fo me . Let it out He 's mesmerized . Then
BOBBY: Itake me back to town
GRACE: You need the money , Bobby . It 's a lot more than $ 100,000 . A lot more . How are you going to get out of here ? You need the money . Whatever it takes , Bobby , remember ?
BOBBY: No ! The screen burns a bright white .
BLIND MAN: It 's the desert that makes you crazy . The loneliness out here . Nobody to talk to . People on the run . Trailer parks . White trash . I seen some peculiar things on a hot day . I seen a scorpion sting itself to death . It just keeps driving its tail into its body again and again . A little kille killing itself . Seen a coyote kill itself too . Just kept on biting and tearing at its own legs . Near tore one clean off efore it bled to death . And what a white man 'll do when it 's freezing one moment , hot as hell the next . A man could get hisself killed just for rubbing shoulders with another kiss kissy kiss . Nice pussy y'see , see it coming . I do n't know what it is about the desert . I figger it 's sort of like putting a kettle of water over a fire . People is mostly water . We boil when it 's hot . 'Cept when we boil the water 's got no place to go . It just churns inside of us until we can cool off . If it 's not too late .
BOBBY: You sure seen a lot for a blind man .
BLIND MAN: Just 'cause I ai n't got eyes does n't mean I ca n't see .
BOBBY: That a fact ?
BLIND MAN: I can see just fine . For example You 're a young man who thinks he 's got someplace to be . A POLICE RADIO crackles , Bobby tensing .
BOBBY: Maybe I do .
BLIND MAN: Or maybe you just think you do . Just another small town . One guy chasing you . You go big town . Just gon na have four guys after you instead . Kiss kissy kiss . It gets down to one thing are you a human being or are you one of those hungry ghosts out there never satisfied with nothing ? Cause you got ta remember you can run just as fa as you can , but wherever you go , that 's where you gon na be .
BOBBY: I think I 've heard that before .
BLIND MAN: What do you want for free ?
BOBBY: You sure got a lot of philosophy , old man .
BLIND MAN: Seems like I do but only cause end of the day we 're all eyes in the same head . And everything is everything .
BOBBY: What ?
BLIND MAN: And everything is nothing too . BOBBY Maybe one day I 'll get to sit on a corne and spout wise .
BOBBY: Who 's cursed ?
BLIND MAN: All them miners last century . Hungry ghosts , killed off all the Indians . Up at the mine . Earth ran red with blood , think I 'm fooling around here . White sky was on fire . Grown men cried like babies . I saw a flash , then darkness descended upon me . They put me in the joint . Took my eyes . I cursed them . White people ca n't seem to stay away from Indians . You got ta watch where ya put your fingers . Pussy pussy pussy , Indian pussy .
BOBBY: I thought you said you lost your eyes in the war ?
BLIND MAN: So now you 're going to tell me where I lost my eyes . You do n't think I know where I lost my eyes ? I was there when I lost them . I lost them in the war . The war in the joint . There 's always wars in the joint . Cause I was a code talker in the joint and in the war too . Mmmm , nothing like the smell of a naked lady . Be careful , boy .
BOBBY: Musta been some bad ass nuclear tests here in the 50 's . This town 's all inbreeding .
BLIND MAN: Well , people got ta get by somehow . That 's the curse . The mines done it . All that uranium , plutonium , fuffonium , fuckononium , assononium , all that `` om '' ! Everybody 's got a mother . You do n't rip up your mother . You do n't rip up the Earth and take everything out . It 's like the Cracker Jack box says , `` the more you eat , the more you want . ''
BOBBY: I got things to do . BLIND MAN Oh well , go do 'em . You do n't see me stopping you
BLIND MAN: But ai n't you got a little something fo the infirm ?
BOBBY: I 'm a little short Pops . I 'll catch you next time .
BLIND MAN: Your lies are old , but you tell 'em well .
JENNY: Hey mister . Mister , I just I just wanted to thank you .
BOBBY: For what ?
JENNY: For defending my honor this afternoon .
BOBBY: I hate to bust your bubble honey , but I was n't defending you .
JENNY: But you was going to fight for me .
BOBBY: I was n't going to fight for you . I was just going to beat the shit out of you oyfriend .
JENNY: He 's not my boyfriend . I mean , I let him take me out and stuff , but I ai n't spoken for . Not yet that is .
BOBBY: Get it through your head , little girl ; I 'm not going for you . If this Toby likes you , then if I were you I 'd marry him . You 're not going to get much better in this town .
JENNY: That 's what I thought until you came riding in . I saw your car over at the gas station . It 's a cool car . Want to take me for a ride ? Desert 's kind of lonely this time of day .
BOBBY: How old are you ?
JENNY: Eighteen Well , I 'm gon na be eighteen in two years , but that do n't mean you ca n't take me for a ride if you want .
BOBBY: No , I do n't want to take you for a ride . What I want is for Hey , you do n't think you can get $ 150 from your parents , could you ? From OFF CAMERA we hear TOBY .
TOBY: That 's right , Mister . You better be afraid . I told you it was n't over , but you did n't listen . Now I find you sneakin ' around with my girl behind my back .
BOBBY: I was n't sneaking around with your girl . Would you please tell him ?
JENNY: You 're too late , Toby . We 're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you ehind .
BOBBY: What the hell are you talking about ?
JENNY: What 's your name anyway ?
TOBY: Oh , that tears it , Mister . I 'm gon na bust you up but good . I 'm gon na bust you into a million pieces and then and then bust those pieces up , and then and then spread them all around . That 's what I 'm gon na do . You do n't know what you 're dealing with , Mister . I 'm crazy . I 'm psycho crazy .
BOBBY: Yeah , I know . You 're TNT . Just like dynamite . When you go off somebody gets hurt . All right . Let 's do this .
JENNY: Toby Tucker , it do n't matter to me if you eat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he 's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself , 'cause we love each other and we gon na run off , and I 'm gon na have his love child .
BOBBY: Will you shut up !
TOBY: You gon na pay for that , Mister .
SHERIFF: Boy , I 'm not trying to hear nothing from you except that you 're heading home . Now un along .
TOBY: Yes , sir . Come on , Jenny .
JENNY: I want to stay .
TOBY: I said come on !
JENNY: Bye , Mister . Do n't go nowhere without me . I wan na have your love child . Toby points a vicious finger at Bobby .
TOBY: Next time , Mister . Next time .
SHERIFF: Where ya goin ' ?
BOBBY: Harlin 's .
SHERIFF: Get in . Bobby has no choice . He gets in .
BOBBY: No , sir . I 'm not going to be around long if that 's what you 're worried about .
SHERIFF: That 's a nasty cut you got there .
BOBBY: Yeah , fell down and hit a rock . Not as bad as it looks .
SHERIFF: There was a young fellow over at Jamilla 's today when it got hit . Way she tells it he got whacked around good by one of the obbers .
BOBBY: Sounds like it . I wish I could help Sheriff , but I just want to get my car and get on up the road .
JAKE: Everything all right , Virgil ? He eyes Bobby . SHERIFF Just fine , Jake . Where you going ?
SHERIFF: Oh just fine .
JAKE: You have n't seen Grace around , have you ? I 'm looking for her .
SHERIFF: No . But if I do , I 'll tell her you 're looking for her , Jake . JAKE Whatcha got there , some trash ? He drives off . The Sheriff drives on .
DARRELL: Hey there . I was beginnin ' to think you was n't comin ' back You do n't look so good .
BOBBY: Yeah , well , I 've been around the bend a it .
DARRELL: One of those days you feel like you been unnin ' in circles and you ai n't no close to where you tryin ' to get than when you started ?
BOBBY: You 've been there ?
DARRELL: Hell , I 've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin ' dog . Ai n't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out .
BOBBY: You believe that ?
DARRELL: You think bad , and bad is what you get .
BOBBY: That 's a good piece of advice , Darrell .
DARRELL: No charge .
BOBBY: Listen , Darrell , about that hundred-fifty ucks for the car , as soon as I get where I 'm going I swear I 'll
DARRELL: Two-hundred .
BOBBY: What ?
DARRELL: It 's going to cost you two-hundred dollars .
BOBBY: You said this morning the hose was going to un me one-fifty .
DARRELL: Yep . For the hose . But while you was gone I replaced a gasket . That 's going to run you another fifty .
BOBBY: I did n't tell you to replace any gasket .
DARRELL: Yeah , but it was shot .
BOBBY: I do n't give a fuck ! I did n't tell you to do it ! You ca n't just do unauthorized work .
DARRELL: Well , now , you just know all there is about ein ' a mechanic , do n't you ? Did n't you ead the sign .
BOBBY: What sign ?
DARRELL: The goddamn sign on the wall . I ca n't do unauthorized work ? What am I suppose to do ? Just let you ride out of here with a ad gasket . Then you get in an accident and get killed . Or worse . Who they gon na lame then ? They gon na blame me , and there goes my reputation .
BOBBY: What reputation ? You 're nothing but an ignorant , inbred , tumbleweed hick .
DARRELL: Is that an insult ? Are you insulting me .
BOBBY: Listen you stupid fuck , I want my car .
DARRELL: Listen to me you sorry sonufabitch . You owe me money , and this car ai n't going nowheres until I get it . And if you take anothe five hours I 'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on it . Is that clear ? Now get out of here 'fore I call the Sheriff , who knows me .
BOBBY: No ! Okay ! Okay !
DARRELL: What 's the matter ? The fight gone out of you ? I 'm just gon na smash a headlight . Maybe two . BOBBY Please , just leave the car alone !
BOBBY: Look , Harlin .
DARRELL: Darrell .
BOBBY: Darrell . I 'll get you your money . I just have to get something out of the trunk .
DARRELL: Well , that key 's not gon na work . I had to pop the lock . You did n't leave me the trunk key .
BOBBY: And you had to go into the trunk , did n't you ?
DARRELL: When I work on a car , I work on a car . BOBBY You motherfucker !
BOBBY: I need a ticket .
CLERK: Where to ?
BOBBY: Out of here .
CLERK: But , in particular ?
BOBBY: I Mexico . You got a bus that goes to Mexico ? That 's where I have to go .
CLERK: Mexico is a large country . Where in Mexico would you like
BOBBY: I do n't care , just get me there .
CLERK: How about Ciudad Juarez ? You could take a local , arrives in two hours , and transfe in Albuquerque . It 'll get you across the order .
BOBBY: How much ?
CLERK: One way , or round trip ?
BOBBY: One way .
CLERK: 30.55 . Twenty more will get you back . Bobby counts his money .
BOBBY: Twenty-seven , fifty . That 's all I got .
CLERK: The ticket is 30.55 . BOBBY I bought a beer . That was a dolla something . Then I gave that girl 25 cents for the juke box . And the blind manthe sodaI..I 'd have 30 ifif
CLERK: Okay , I 'll give you the ticket , sir , utjustjust , please calm down , please !
BOBBY: I 'm sorry . It 's just you know
SERGEI: Got you , shitface ! Bobby Cooper . Bobby Cooper
SHERIFF: Where 's the fire sweetheart ? Do n't know how they work things in Nevada , but we got speed limits in this state .
SERGEI: Vat ? I am going 5 miles an hour ! I am looking town . I not even moving .
SHERIFF: Whoa , what kind of accent you got there ? You one of them Russians ?
SHERIFF: What ? You trying to bribe me , mister ? Just cause you Russians ai n't commies anymore , do n't think money can buy everything
SERGEI: What fuckin grocery store , you fucking shithead idiot ! You call yourself a police Sergei looking Bobby 's direction .
SHERIFF: Get out of the car , spread them . You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to shut the fuck up ! You commie motherfucker . Either way you 're goin ' to the can .
SERGEI: I want my lawyer !
BOBBY: Ow !
TOBY: Get up , Mister ! Do n't ever let it be said Toby Tucker beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance . BOBBY What the hell are you doing ? You fucking psycho !
BOBBY: You idiot ! You do n't even know what you 're fighting over !
TOBY: My honor , that 's what I 'm fighting over . Now get up off the ground , or do I have to whoop you where you lie ? JENNY comes running up the street .
JENNY: Toby ! Toby Tucker , leave him alone !
TOBY: You stay away , Jenny . I aim to mess him up , and that ai n't a thing for a woman to see .
JENNY: Do n't be afraid of him none . I do n't care what he does to you , we can still be together .
BOBBY: Get away from me !
TOBY: Now , what 's this ?
BOBBY: Give it to me !
TOBY: Mexico ? You going to Mexico ?
BOBBY: I 'm leaving . You never have to see me again . Just please , give me the ticket !
TOBY: This means something to you ? Jenny means something to me .
BOBBY: Nooo ! TOBY I 'm gon na beat you so bad you gon na be eatin ' nothing but soup the erst of you days . Rain dogs is gon na be prettier than you when I 'm done . I 'm gon na mess you up so bad you gon na make your own momma sick . I 'm gon na
JENNY: Stop it ! You 're killing him !
BOBBY: Hello , Grace ? It 's Bobby .
GRACE: There is no us , remember ?
BOBBY: Except I ca n't get you out of my head , Grace .
GRACE: Stop it .
BOBBY: I mean it , Grace . I 'm getting out of here , and I want to take you with me .
GRACE: Are you sure ? About me , I mean ?
BOBBY: I came back for you ; this morning I came ack . Before I even knew about the money . You 're what I want . The only reason I stormed off is because you spooked me talking about Jake . But I 've had nothing but time to think about it . It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here . But we 've got to get the money , baby . We get the money , I get the car , then we get the hell out .
GRACE: You said you could n't kill anybody .
BOBBY: We do n't have to kill him . Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away . It was your idea , remember ? I 'm doing this for you . I 'm doing this so you can flyfly like a bird .
GRACE: After dark . I 'll leave the back doo unlocked . She quickly hangs up the phone .
JAKE: Who was that on the phone ?
GRACE: Wrong number .
JAKE: You spent a long time talking for a wrong number . But then you make friends so easily . Do n't you , Grace ?
GRACE: I put up new drapes , Jake .
JAKE: I know . I was here when your apprentice was helping you . Remember ?
GRACE: You never said anything . About the drapes .
JAKE: They look nice .
GRACE: You have n't even looked at them once . Jake lowers the paper , looks at the drapes .
JAKE: They look nice .
GRACE: I picked them out for you , Jake . I thought you would like the colors . JAKE You look just like your mama when you move like that against the light .
JAKE: What the hell you looking at , girl ?
GRACE: Nothing , Jake . Absolutely nothing .
BLIND MAN: Well , that 's it . Sun 's going down . People go home , trade stories over dinner . They 'll talk about the day , about the heat , laugh about something crazy it made them do . They 'll kiss , sleep a few hours , then do it all over again .
BOBBY: The day was n't so bad . We all got through it all right . BLIND MAN Keep it .
BLIND MAN: Night is when you want to sleep , but the dry heat keeps you tossin ' and turnin ' . It 's when you wish the sun was bakin ' high in the sky so you could see what it is you 're afraid of .
BOBBY: You afraid of the dark ?
BLIND MAN: Afraid of it ? Boy , I live in the dark . All cause of a woman who made me this way . People are afraid of what they ca n't see . I ca n't see nuthin ' , so it 's all the same to me . Kiss from a beautiful woman , kissy kissy kiss , a lick from a dog , slurp , slurp , the kiss of death . It 's all the same to me .
BOBBY: So , we 're all just floating along like twigs in a stream , so enjoy the ride . Is that it ?
BLIND MAN: More or less .
BOBBY: Not this twig , friend . I got plans .
BLIND MAN: Nothing makes the Great Spirit laugh harde than a man 's plans . We all got plans . I planned on seeing all my life . I know you did n't plan on straying into town .
BOBBY: No and I do n't plan on sticking around either .
BLIND MAN: Well , do n't say I did n't warn you when things go your way .
BOBBY: You got a lotta philosophy in you , old timer but you do n't fool me for one second with all this blind man crap . One minute you lost your eyes in Vietnam , next it 's the joint . Now it 's a woman ? I 'm hep to you .
BLIND MAN: Used to be a young smartass like you . Then I got smart with the wrong man 's daughter . Got some acid poured on my peepers for my trouble . You know human beings ai n't always just human they got animals living inside 'em tooPeople give spare change to war heroes not fools . All fools get is pity . May not have eyes , but I see . And you , boy ? The Blind Man puts his glasses back on .
BOBBY: Time 's up . Any last words of wisdom ?
BLIND MAN: Things ai n't always the way they seem . You got to ask yourself is it worth it ? Day comes Earthmaker is going to look in you fucking heart ! Then you better know what it
BLIND MAN: You know I wo n't be seeing you .
JAKE: Ya little bitch , you like it do n't you ! You like it this way rough and hard . Got ta go fuck around on me , like your Mama , but you always got ta come home to Daddy , do n't you , cause you know Daddy 's the best .
GRACE: Yes , yes , hit mebeat me , please .
JAKE: You been a bad girl , Grace . You took my heart from your Mama , did n't ya ? You etrayed her ! Like you did me . There ai n't no forgivin ' ya , girl !
GRACE: Oh no ! Oh please forgive me , Papa !
JAKE: You broke her heart ! You broke your Mama 's heart . You stole me ! That 's right . Fuck it away . But it ai n't ever goin ' away , cause your Mama she 's like a hungry ghost aby , she wo n't go away , she wo n't leave ya alone .
GRACE: No ! No ! Please ! He hits her . Harder .
JAKE: Oh baby , I 'm so sorry I 'm so sorry I did n't mean to hurt you so bad . It justgot away
GRACE: What 's the matter ?
JAKE: You did n't hear something ?
GRACE: Yeah , I heard a key slapping against my ass .
JAKE: There 's someone in the house . GRACE Maybemaybe the wind blew something ove . Come on aby , keep going .
GRACE: Jake , do n't go out there . Call the sheriff .
JAKE: Shhhh ! Just like your Mama , always scared of things
BOBBY: That 's my gun That fucking Darrell !
JAKE: I like Darrell . He may be an idiot , but he 's my half brother . We own Harlin 's together , yeah , that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out . BOBBY You been workin ' me the whole time .
BOBBY: It 's not what you think , Jake .
JAKE: No , but it do n't matter anyway when you 're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I 'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter , did n't have enough money to fix his car . And Darrell happened to find his gun , and through maybe this drifte heard old Jake got some money stashed away , and figgered he might try to break in and steal it !
BOBBY: Wait a minute . Just listen to me
JAKE: And he thought he 'd clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paperand then maybe borrow $ 200 o $ 20,000 , or $ 200,000 BOBBY That 's not the reason I 'm here , Jake .
BOBBY: Maybe I do n't like being played , like she played us today . Maybe I do n't like that at all , Jake . I 'm just pissed enough , maybe I 'll rip the neck off my own grandmother .
JAKE: You have a lot of talk in you , whole lot of talk .
BOBBY: Damn it , Jake . There is a guy coming to kill me , and if it comes down to me o Grace , then I pick Grace . You were going to give me thirteen-thousand . Give me two-hundred . I 'll kill her and dump the ody where no one will ever find it . She showed me the perfect place . There wo n't be enough left for an autopsy . But I need the the money . I 've got to have the money .
JAKE: She 's in the bedroom .
BOBBY: Wan na give me my gun ?
JAKE: A strangling 'll do just fine . Go to work .
BOBBY: How 'bout the pipe ? JAKE She 's got a slender neck .
JAKE: Hold on a second ! Come here !
BOBBY: What are you talking about ! JAKE This morning when I came in on you and Grace , you swore you had n't been near the edroom . Now you make straight for it .
JAKE: Or did you just ply the afternoon away etween my sheets putting your lips all over her , you little horndog BOBBY What difference does it make if I slept with her ? We 're gon na kill her .
BOBBY: O.K. ! I admit it ! I fucked her ! But it 's
JAKE: You 'd tell me anything to save you pathetic life .
BOBBY: You know what kind of woman Grace is , Jake . You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Superior . What 's she to you , Jake ; a woman who wants you dead ? Let me kill her . All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out of here with .
JAKE: Two-hundred dollars ?
BOBBY: Two-hundred dollarsI 'll do it ! I 'll kill her !
JAKE: Sweet Christ , I 'd be doing the world a favor , ridding it of the likes of you . Get your miserable ass off the floor . You 're positively pathetic Go on , go kill Grace . Bobby slowly stands .
GRACE: Jake !
JAKE: Grace ! !
BOBBY: Grace , goddamit , do something !
JAKE: Grace ?
GRACE: Like you helped her , Jake ?
BOBBY: What the hell 'd you wait for ?
GRACE: The money 's right here ! Get the key !
BOBBY: No ! You get it !
GRACE: Did n't I tell you ? BOBBY There must be 150 , 200 thousand here ! Goddamnit Grace , you were right !
BOBBY: Open up !
DARRELL: What the hell oh , it 's you . Might 've figgered . Listen I got a waitress coming over . What do you want ?
BOBBY: I want my car .
DARRELL: You got the money ?
BOBBY: That 's none of your business . Get the keys .
DARRELL: I do n't want no dirty money . I run an honest business .
DARRELL: No .
GRACE: Bobby ? What the hell 's the matter with you ?
BOBBY: I nothing . I just stubbed my toe on a rock . Hurt like hell .
GRACE: I got the money all packed . I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage . People 'll think maybe me and Jake went away . Buy us some timeI know a back road we can take .
BOBBY: Good thinking . What 's all this ?
GRACE: I 'm not coming back . BOBBY Awright , let 's go . I want to be fifty miles from here before the sun comes up .
BOBBY: I ca n't see it .
GRACE: It should be just up ahead . Hold on there ! There it is !
BOBBY: Hey ! Take it easy . Want to get us killed ?
GRACE: You do n't know what it feels like to be free of that place .
BOBBY: I do n't know about that ?
GRACE: You spent a day in Superior . I wasted my entire life there . I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders .
GRACE: Ca n't we just dump him fast someplace ?
BOBBY: I want a place where only the vultures will find him It 'll be over soon , Grace .
GRACE: Then will you take me on your friends ' boat with you ?
BOBBY: I 'm not sailing his boat .
GRACE: But I thought
BOBBY: We 're going to buy a boat of our own baby , and sail it wherever we want to go .
GRACE: Anywhere ?
BOBBY: What the hell ? Why not ? Where should we go ?
GRACE: Hawaii . I 've read all about it . I 've dreamed of going there and just lying on the beach while the water licked up against my feet . Oh , God . I 'd kill to go there .
BOBBY: You already have . She gives him a funny look .
GRACE: What are you talking about ? BOBBY When I got back from the garage , and you jeep was n't there , I thought you 'd gone and left me and taken the money . Cause I never had any luck with women , Grace . You do n't know what I been through . The shit I 've taken . I thought you were like the rest of 'em but when you came out of the house well you 're here Grace and we might be starting in the shit but we 're starting where I never been
BOBBY: We 're gon na pull this off , Grace .
GRACE: Oh , my God ! Do n't stop !
BOBBY: He must 've seen us swerving on the road , that 's all , just gon na give us a ticket fo swerving
GRACE: Keep going ! She seems to be panicking . Bobby pulls over .
BOBBY: Fuck this ! Just shut up , Grace . We done nothing ! Be cool . Let me do the talking . He does n't know anything .
SHERIFF: You had to fuck him , did n't you ! GRACE I would never do that to you , baby He killed Jake said he 'd kill me if I did n't come with him . All he wants is the money .
BOBBY: What ! SHERIFF u > Do n't lie to me ! Grace knows the jam is up .
GRACE: OKbut he never made me cum ! Really Virgil , I was only doing what I had to do so we could be free . Just like we talked about . It meant nothing .
BOBBY: You fucking him too Grace ? Is everybody fucking everybody in this town ?
SHERIFF: You fuck this guy get him to do you dirty work and you think you can take the money and dump me ?
GRACE: No baby , you got it wrong .
SHERIFF: This road do n't go to Globe , Grace where were you going to meet me ?
GRACE: It 's not like that it Look , Virgil , I got the money here .
SHERIFF: This is some girl you and me got here Bobby , yessir , an excellent cocksuck too , would n't you say ? Course you had a lotta practice have n't you darling , going way back to your crazy mama ! GRACE Shut up , Virgil ! Take your share of the money . It 's not so bad .
GRACE: You sound just like Jake I did see into the future , Virgil , but you were n't in it . Go back to your family . They love you .
SHERIFF: Shut up , boy ! You do n't know shit round here ! Get back . Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away ? BOBBY Ow ! Look , I ow !
GRACE: Stop ! Stop it ! SHERIFF Were you going to help her fly away , asshole ? What 'd you think , you were the first boy to drift through this town she came on to ? She tell you the story about old Jake forcing her to marry him ? That 's a good story How he killed her crazy Mama ?
GRACE: Noyou ! You !
BOBBY: Grace . No !
GRACE: Help me get him off the road . Into the car ! We 'll ditch his car Get the fuck up ! Bobby stares at her .
BOBBY: He was in love with you Grace . He would 've done what you wanted , you could 've made a deal and
GRACE: The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake 's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life no thanks .
BOBBY: He was a cop , Grace , they never stop looking for you when you kill a cop
BOBBY: Ask you what ? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next ?
GRACE: Do n't you want to know ? I bet it 's urning a hole in your brain just now ?
BOBBY: Let it go , baby . It 's the past . I got a past
GRACE: Do n't you really want to know ? Was Jake my Daddy ? Was I fucking my own Daddy ? Do n't you want to know that ? BOBBY What do you want me to say ! She 's yelling , emotionally out of control .
BOBBY: Why ?
GRACE: I do n't know why ! She drops back in her seat . Tears come .
BOBBY: And us Grace ? What do we deserve ? GRACE `` Nin chonk , nin chonk , '' my Mama used to say in Apache . `` Your worst is doing this to you , '' she said , `` your worst has killed you . '' And `` Be go tsee '' `` you will find out the result of what you have done '' Just when you think it 's over , when you 've gotten away , it begins . Cause you never get away .
GRACE: It 's easy to judge someone else when you do n't know nothing about it I 'm Apache , Bobby . You do n't eat what I eat . You do n't see what I see . Do n't judge me .
BOBBY: I do n't want to think anymore . GRACE Then drive
GRACE: See ya , Virgil . God bless .
BOBBY: No Grace , my hand 's bothering me .
GRACE: You think now that Jake 's dead , there 's all that money there and I do n't need you anymore , and I might just sneak up behind you sometime andpop !
BOBBY: You could give me my gun back . Grace smiles .
GRACE: Why do n't we just finish what we started .
BOBBY: I think nothing happens . You 're dead meat . That 's it .
GRACE: You do n't believe in anything do you , Bobby ?
BOBBY: I believe in this moment , that 's all . There is nothing else . Come on . He must weigh 300 pounds .
GRACE: You hit me , Bobby ? You hit a woman , you motherfucker ! Did n't your Momma ever teach you anything ?
BOBBY: Well , nothing . We dump Jake , we split the money , then you 're on your own .
GRACE: Do n't leave me . I want to say with you , Bobby .
BOBBY: Why ? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again ?
GRACE: I was just baiting him ! Bobby , I had to tell him that to get his guard down . Just like you told Jake you was going to kill me !
BOBBY: You lied to me all along ! Lies , all lies . Your mother , your father , what story are you on now ? How come the town did n't know you was his daughter ? GRACE Cause my Mom slept around . A lotta men ! Anybody could 've been my father . But weknew . BOBBY Well you got what you wanted all along by fucking me . I wish you had told me the goddamn truth in the first place ! GRACE
GRACE: I do n't want to go to Mexico , Bobby ! Please , I really want to be with you . Do n't low this . Do n't you think I care about you ?
BOBBY: I think you 're a lying , back-stabbing psycho bitch , and one day you 'll kill me . But it 's nice to know you cared
GRACE: You do n't know your own mind . It blocks your heart .
BOBBY: Give me a hand .
GRACE: My mother died in this canyon .
BOBBY: Save the Mom routine , will ya Grace . It does n't work with me . One , two , three
GRACE: Hope is a four-letter word .
BOBBY: But we all need that too . Hold him .
GRACE: Shit ! She sits there . Bobby is calling from below .
BOBBY: Grace ! Help me , Grace ! We been through too much together . We 've only had one day , ut you and me have been through more than most people ever will . I know you were angry at me , and , you know , you were right ! I 'm sorry I hit you . I was wrong about leaving you . You do n't belong in Mexico .
GRACE: Bobby ? Are you all right ?
BOBBY: I busted my leg !
GRACE: Can you make it back up ?
BOBBY: Grace in the trunk of my car is a tow ope . It should reach down here . Go get it , throw it down .
GRACE: Bobby , the trunkit 's locked . Throw the keys up to me . I 'll get the rope .
BOBBY: I ca n't throw that far . You got to clim down here and get the keys . You can make it . It 's the only way Grace .
GRACE: Okay . I 'm coming . Calm down !
BOBBY: 'Cause I love you . Inching closer .
GRACE: And I love you too .
BOBBY: And love 's a funny thing . Sometimes I do n't know if I want to love you
GRACE: Jake
BOBBY: He ca n't help you now , honey !
ABBY: Morning , Freddy .
SECURITY GUARD: Morning , Abby . Another peaceful day ?
ABBY: If you say so
JOY: We 've got problems .
ABBY: There are no problems , Joy . Only solutions .
JOY: The sky-cam on the traffic copte has a cracked lens and they ca n't fix it .
ABBY: Okay , that 's a problem . Call Matt Hardwick down at Media Services . He 's got a few Sky Cams and he owes me . Now , where are my weathermen ? Joy opens a door to a waiting area .
LATINO MEN: Hey there !
ABBY: Hi , guys ! Abby waves back and closes the door .
ABBY: What 's with the pot bellies ?
JOY: Research shows people like fat weathermen . It makes them feel safe .
ABBY: I like the one in the green and the one in the brown , but I want to see the one in the green with less sideburns and the one in the brown with more , then I 'll make my decision .
LARRY: I 'm sorry to do this to you , Abby , ut I do n't think I can work with her anymore . It 's bad enough I have to take her criticism at home . I ca n't do it on air , too . A man can only take so much .
ABBY: You 're not a man , Larry You 're a newsman . A newsman is n't defined by the easy times , Larry , he 's defined by the difficult ones . Can you imagine Ted Koppel or Chris Hansen or Anderson Cooper having their wives as co-anchor ? Hell , no , ecause they could n't handle it . But you can . You 've got balls the size of Volkswagens . Do n't think I have n't noticed .
LARRY: I 've only thought of them as blue as of late , but you 're right . They are quite sizeable . But not disproportionately so . I like to think of them as aesthetically pleasing
ABBY: I think I 've made my point .
JOSH: Oh , but full coverage on David Beckham 's new tattoo is vital ? !
GEORGIA: He 's trying to kill me ! He knows I ca n't eat crab , I 'm allergic to it ! Does anyone see this ? Is this a hive ?
JOSH: It looks like syphilis to me .
DORI: See that ? You would n't even know what syphilis looks like if it were n't for my story on Paris Hilton .
GUEST CHEF: She does n't eat crab or beef o fish . She does n't eat anything but chicken . You do n't need a chef on this show . You need a box of McNuggets .
GEORGIA: I have to tell you , Bruce . This is the best Chicken Kiev I 've eve tasted .
GUEST CHEF: Actually it 's Duck Kiev . Duck makes an excellent alternative fo chicken , Georgia .
JAVIER: Can I take home the leftovers ? They all laugh .
LARRY: When we return , our live Skycam traffic update and more on David Beckham 's hundred thousand dolla tattoo .
GEORGIA: And what you can do to help preserve the ancient forests of Alaska and how it might help your Albuquerque electric bill .
CLIFF: Go to commercial . I do n't know how you do it .
ABBY: It 's just a matter of staring the chaos in the eye and showing it who 's boss . Nice work , guys .
JOY: Stuart wants to see you . He 's freaking out .
ABBY: That means he got the numbers .
STUART: Have you seen the ratings fo yesterday ? We got beat by all the network shows , plus a rerun of `` Who 's the Boss '' . The one where the vacuum breaks .
ABBY: It 's a temporary setback . This week we 'll do better .
STUART: The guy with the cable access show on Channel 83 does better . If we programed Jerry Springer re-runs , we 'd do a nine share at a quarte the price . Abby looks worried .
ABBY: Please tell me you 're not thinking of killing the show .
STUART: I 'm not , but I can guarantee you that 's what the new management 's thinking .
STUART: Management does n't listen to awards . It listens to numbers . We 're not a family-run station anymore , Abby . You 're good at what you do , but you 've got to get me some numbers . I 've got two daughters in college and a son in eauty school . I do n't know how much you know about Vidal Sassoon ut that shit ai n't cheap . Abby nods .
ABBY: You can count on me , Stuart .
JOY: Absolutely not . You should be out , observing humanity . Humanity 's who watches our show .
ABBY: Yeah , all 2.47 % of them .
JOY: You 've already rescheduled on this guy three times . You cancel tonight and he 's gone . He 's read more than a dozen books , he has a 401K and he 's cute .
ABBY: You printed his profile ?
JOY: What ? I 'm married . I live vicariously through your dating life . And I really think that this could be our next boyfriend . C'mon , he had nine out of ten items on your checklist .
ABBY: Well , technically eight and a half . He said he could cook , but when I pressed him , he was completely unfamiliar with cumin . Do n't you think that 's a little suspicious ? Off Joy 's look , we CUT TO
ABBY: Jim hey . Hi . Hey .
HOSTESS: Shall I show you to your table ?
ABBY: You know what ? This is not the best angle . We should get the table ove there . Then we both get a view , instead of one of us looking at the usboy station .
JIM: I 'm fine here .
ABBY: No , trust me . It 'll be better ove there .
WAITER: Can I get you some water for the table ?
JIM: Bottle of flat , please .
ABBY: You know , they 've done studies that show tap water is no different from ottled water . And they passed a law recently to have all estaurants filter their tap water . So , technically it 's not tap water .
JIM: Yeah , I still like the way it tastes better .
WAITER: Can I get you any cocktails ?
JIM: Scotch on the rocks .
ABBY: In your profile , you said you liked ed wine .
JIM: I do , I just feel like having a scotch right now .
ABBY: Was there anything else you changed your mind about ? I mean , just so I can figure it into the overall picture .
JIM: You printed out my profile ?
ABBY: Actually , my associate produce did . She likes me to be prepared . Not that I 'm ever not prepared . Kudos on your comprehensive ca insurance policy , by the way .
JIM: That was n't in my profile .
ABBY: No , but it was in your background check . Sotell me about yourself .
JIM: Well , what 's left that you do n't know ?
ABBY: Good point .
JIM: I take it it 's happened before ?
ABBY: No , but since you have nine out of ten of the necessary attributes on my checklist , I just wanted to make sure this goes as smoothly as possible .
JIM: Thank you .
ABBY: You realize the ice in that scotch is made from tap water , do n't you ?
ABBY: FYI , be sure to eat this by tomorrow . With curry , you ca n't smell if it 's gone bad , so afte three days , you should just toss it . Really , do n't even give it to a pet or anything .
JIM: Three days . Got it .
ABBY: Here , just to be sure , I 'll write today 's date on it for you .
JIM: It 's fine , really
ABBY: I told them to double bag this !
JIM: I 'm just gon na go .
ABBY: I 'm so sor
ABBY: Do n't ask .
MIKE: You want the truth ! But you ca n't handle the truth . ` Cause it 's
MOTLEY GROUP: Ugly !
MIKE: I 'm Mike Alexander and we 're back with the `` The Ugly Truth . '' Tonight , as always , we 're going to talk about what it is men and women eally want in relationships . I 've een looking through some books
ABBY: Oh my God . It 's that cable access jackass Stuart was talking about .
MIKE: What 's your boyfriend 's name , princess ?
MIKE: My point exactly , Shrek . Next caller .
ABBY: So you 're saying men are incapable of love ?
MIKE: Did I burst your little Harlequin Romance bubble ?
ABBY: The only thing you burst is you credibility . Men are absolutely capable of experiencing love .
MIKE: Okay , I 'll bite . Who 's the guy ?
ABBY: What ?
MIKE: The guy , Mr . Wonderful , the one who 's so capable of love . Who is he ? What 's he like ?
ABBY: Well , he 's not like you , that 's fo sure .
MIKE: Thank you very much . Go on .
ABBY: He 's smarthe 's handsome but does n't know it He 's successful , but in a job that means something . He loves red wine , classical music , Cary Grant movies
MIKE: This is a guy in America , right ? You 're not calling from Europe o anything .
ABBY: Are you interested in listening o not ?
MIKE: No , please . I 'm loving this .
ABBY: He works out , not because he 's vain , because it 's healthy . He 's socially liberal but fiscally conservative . He likes dogs but he 's a cat person . He never gets out of bed before you on a Sunday morning
MIKE: Oh my god . You 're a lesbian !
ABBY: What ? !
MIKE: Well , you 're describing a woman .
ABBY: Why are those qualities so threatening to you ? Perhaps because your complete lack of any one of them is the real reason why women are n't interested in you . At least women of quality .
MIKE: Where is this guy ? I will give you one hundred dollars of my own money to bring him down here and let me meet him .
ABBY: Oh , he 's out theresomewhere .
MIKE: Wait a second . You 're not even dating this guy ? !
ABBY: Well , noI 'm just describing a typeI thought that 's what we were doing .
MIKE: You do n't even know him ? ! ?
ABBY: Excuse me ?
MIKE: You heard me . You must be . If you were hot , you 'd be out breaking some poor schmuck 's heart instead of spending all your time fantasizing about Mr . Wonderful . Face it , you 're ugly !
ABBY: I am not ugly !
MIKE: Well , of course you do n't think so . Ugly people never know they 're ugly . It 's like people who have B.O . They never know it because they 're surrounded by their own stench all the time .
ABBY: That is the most ridic
MIKE: Look , lem me help you out here . You might as well just face the fact that you 're gon na be alone and stop pining away for some fantasy guy you 're never going to get . Get a hobby . Build housing for the poor . Anything .
ABBY: How could you possibly
MIKE: Hey , Lassie the show 's called `` The Ugly Truth '' . If you ca n't face it , do n't call . Well that about wraps it up fo today . I 'm Mike Alexander reminding you that the truth is never pretty .
JOY: How did the date go ?
ABBY: I ended up pantsless in a parking lot .
JOY: That 's awesome !
STUART: Morning , everybody . He puts a DVD in the player .
JOY: Is that you ?
ABBY: What ? ! No !
STUART: One word . Ratings . Say hello to ou new guest commentator . I 'm starting him with two segments a week . Three minutes a pop .
ABBY: Are you kidding me ?
JOSH: Who the hell is this guy ?
STUART: His name is Mike Alexander .
ABBY: And he 's a quintessential misogynist uber-moron who epresents everything wrong with television and society at large
DORI: I get crap every time I suggest we do something even remotely fluffy and now you 're gon na put this douchebag on the air ?
STUART: He 's got a point of view . We do n't have to like him , we 're news people . We 're objective . Stone Phillips interviews terrorists , does n't mean he likes them . It 's good for ratings . Abby holds up a piece of paper .
ABBY: I 've got a whole list of ideas on how to improve ratings . We do n't need him . Stuart takes the memo , reading it .
STUART: A live debate on immigration policy ? Never work .
ABBY: What are you talking about ? Albuquerque is 45 % Latino .
MIKE: Yeah , and as you can tell by all the screaming rugrats in this town , Latino guys like to have a lot of sex . Which means they 'd rathe listen to me tell them how to bang hot chicks than hear about why they ca n't bring grandma across the order .
STUART: See , what did I tell you ? He 's great .
MIKE: Thanks , boss . Abby spins to face Stuart .
ABBY: You already hired him ? !
MIKE: Who 's this delightful creature ?
ABBY: Your superior .
MIKE: MmmI like a woman on top .
ABBY: I am an award-winning news producer . I am an award-winning news producer
MIKE: Hey , no hard feelings , right ?
ABBY: You do n't even knock ?
MIKE: I knocked . I got no response .
ABBY: So , essentially your knock was negated by your complete lack of adherence to the social etiquette of what follows a knock .
MIKE: Wow . You are wound like a fuckin ' top . Abby glares at him .
ABBY: Woof woof . Recognize the bark ? He stares at her , surprised .
MIKE: Hey , what do you know ? You 're not ugly at all .
ABBY: Imagine my relief .
MIKE: You know , if it were n't for you , I would have never gotten this gig . You and I make good TV .
ABBY: I 'm sorry , what channel is you show on ?
MIKE: Eighty three .
ABBY: This is channel two . You do know that the lower numbers are better , ight ? More people watch . So do n't tell me that `` you and I '' make good TV . I am an award-winning news producer . I make good TV . You make imbecilic trash watched by housebound inbreds who are so busy putting their hands down thei pants they 're unable to change the channel .
MIKE: I had n't really been picturing you that way , but thanks for the image .
ABBY: Let me tell you something . I am not one of your viewers . My cat stepped on the remote .
MIKE: Thank your pussy for me , then .
ABBY: There is no way Mike Alexander is going to stay on my show . I want you to skewer him . Make him look like a complete idiot . Not that it will be hard . The man is a moron of unseen proportions .
GEORGIA: That 's just what we need on this show .
LARRY: Does anyone think my highlights are too shiny ?
ABBY: Larry , listen to me . I want Mike Alexander to go down in flames . I want Mike Alexander to be nothing ut a pile of ash on the seat next to you . I want the janitor to come in with his Dustbuster and vacuum up the ashes of Mike Alexander , and then when he throws the ashes into the dumpster outside , I want the ats to vomit and then defecate on the ashes of Mike Alexander . She strides off . Larry looks at Georgia .
LARRY: And I thought you were angry and itter .
GEORGIA: Uh , no , that would be my untouched vagina .
GEORGIA: For years , there have been concerns about lowering television standards . But many believe that this man and his local public access show , `` The Ugly Truth , '' have ought things to a new low . With that , we welcome Mike Alexander . Mike gives a cocky wave .
MIKE: How ya doing , guys ?
LARRY: Mike , how do you respond to those who say your show is offensive ?
MIKE: It is but then again , so is the truth .
GEORGIA: The truth about what , Mr. Alexander ?
MIKE: What relationships are really like .
ABBY: C'mon Georgia , let him have it .
GEORGIA: Sounds to me like no one 's eve loved you and you 're taking it out on the female population . In the control room , Abby smirks .
ABBY: Ooh , good one .
MIKE: Well , while we 're making observations , you two project this image of the perfect couple , when clearly , it 's a lie .
LARRY: Excuse me ?
ABBY: Cliff , let 's go to commercial .
CLIFF: Stuart told me to keep rolling , no matter what .
ABBY: What ? When ? Cliff shrugs . Abby is pissed .
CLIFF: Not right now it is n't .
MIKE: I mean , come on Larry , I grew up watching you on TV . You used to be this cool confident cat . Georgia 's no dumb bunny . She knew the only way she was getting off the weekend shift was by hooking up with you . But then lo and behold , she became more popular than you and ended up with twice your salary .
ABBY: C'mon , Larry . Take him down .
LARRY: I 'm proud of my wife 's success .
MIKE: Bullllloney you are . You hate he success . You feel emasculated by her and that screws with your head which inevitably screws with you manhood .
GEORGIA: What 's your point , Mr. Alexander ?
ABBY: Good girl , Georgia . Take control .
MIKE: My point ? My point is that you husband has n't had sex with you inI 'm gon na say . . .three months ?
LARRY: That 's not my fault !
MIKE: I know , it 's her fault !
GEORGIA: Why is it my fault ? !
ABBY: Oh , dear God .
GEORGIA: Well , what am I supposed to do , give up the money , so he can get an erection ?
MIKE: I agree . You 've economically emasculated your husband to such a point that he 's afraid to desire you . Sure , you can dump his ass , ut honey , have you seen the eligible men in Albuquerque ? It 's slim pickings out there for a woman in her forties . You 're not going to do any better than Larry . You just have to let him be a man . LET HIM
CLIFF: And we 're out . He cuts to BLACK .
JOY: Found her . Abby is sitting in a ball in her closet .
STUART: One thousand , one hundred and forty- seven calls and over three hundred E-mails . And fifty-three percent of them were women . This guy 's a lightening rod !
ABBY: People liked him ? !
STUART: Liked him ? They loved him .
ABBY: How is that possible ?
STUART: I do n't know , but I 'm scaling back the news and giving it to `` The Ugly Truth . '' Corporate wants five minutes of Mike Alexander , five days a week .
ABBY: Stuart , I really think this is a mistake
STUART: Just keep him happy and both of ou contracts will be renewed . Stuart leaves . Joy turns back to Abby .
JOY: Congratulations ? Abby closes the closet door on herself .
MIKE: Remember ? How could I forget ? You threw up in my car . JONAH , 14 , awkward , Mike 's nephew , walks in .
JONAH: Dude , you totally hosed me !
MIKE: What ?
JONAH: Last week on your show , you said you should always be mean to hot girls because they 'll want you more . I tried it today , she cried , and then I got detention .
MIKE: First of all - do n't listen to what I say on my show . Second of all , you 're supposed to do that to 25- year-old girls who think they 're hot and can get any guy they want . Not 14-year-old girls . They 're going through puberty . They have enough problems .
JONAH: Mom said when she was fourteen , she was the prettiest girl in the class .
MIKE: Well , I was there when she was fourteen and let me tell you something she lied .
ELIZABETH: Do n't listen to your Uncle Mike , he was blind from masturbating too much .
MIKE: Oh , that 's a nice thing to tell your son
ELIZABETH: It 's nothing worse than what he 's heard on your show . She hands him the cake box .
MIKE: Thanks . He opens the box .
ELIZABETH: Sorry , I did n't have time to bake one . I took it from work . Harold did n't quite make it through the ig day .
MIKE: Looks like he got to blow out his candles .
ELIZABETH: What do you think did him in ? He closes the box .
MIKE: Who wants to go out and eat ?
MIKE: Really ? Because I thought you were gon na get fired if you do n't keep me happy . I 've got a list of demands to go over after the show . And let me just warn you they 're gon na be scatological . She fumes , jabbing the earpiece in his ear .
MIKE CONT'D: Just because you look pretty today , I wo n't mention the misguided phallic rage you just displayed .
ABBY: If you hear my voice in your ear , do what I say .
MIKE: Promise you 'll talk dirty ? Mike is cut off by Cliff in the booth .
CLIFF: Where the hell is he going ? !
ABBY: Follow him !
MIKE: Ah , I see you ladies have started without me .
ABBY: Who let them on the lot ? Do n't we have security ?
MIKE: Babes wrestling in Jello . Let 's just take a quick survey and see which option the men out there would pick .
ABBY: Jesus , if we 're gon na do this , we might as well milk it . Two , go wide ! Good . Ready , one tight on his hand !
MIKE: MmmmI was wrong . It 's cherry . And that 's the ugly truth . Over to you , Georgia .
ABBY: Your realize I once had the Archbishop Desmond Tutu on this show .
MIKE: Who 's that ? Abby rubs her temples .
ABBY: I ca n't even illustrate how fa I 've fallen , because you 're not smart enough to get the references .
MIKE: C'mon , we were a good team back there . You were the one who told me to lick the Jello .
ABBY: Do you have any idea how much I hate myself for that ? ! It was cheap titillation . I am now going to oadcasting hell right behind Geraldo and the naked weather girl from Canada .
MIKE: Seriously ? There 's a naked weathe girl ? Can we get her ?
COLIN: Just stay calm . You 're gon na be fine . The branch breaks .
ABBY: Ahhh ! ! ! Abby FALLS to the ground but Colin CATCHES her . But only for a moment .
COLIN: Whoops .
ABBY: Hi , I 'm Abby .
DWAYNE: `` Dear Mike , I know I 'm the girl who can change you and make you fall in love . Here 's a photo of me and my iguana . '' Steve looks at the photo .
STEVE: I thought iguanas only liked dry places . He passes it to Gary .
GARY: We might need to call animal control on this one .
MIKE: Guys , enough with the fan mail .
STEVE: What ? You do n't want to add he into your rotation ?
MIKE: Uh , no .
DWAYNE: What about the tranny ? He seemed nice .
GARY: And he went to all the trouble to knit you that cock-sock . Mike rolls his eyes and deals the cards .
MIKE: Can we just play poker ?
ABBY: You 're a doctor ?
COLIN: An orthopedic surgeon .
ABBY: Well , I guess I 'm pretty lucky D'Artagnan picked your tree to climb . Dave in the next unit ove sells lawn furniture . I do n't know that I would have been as confident with his diagnosis .
COLIN: I 'm here whenever you need me .
ABBY: Wow , he does n't usually like men .
COLIN: Dogs are great , butwell , you 're a cat person . You know .
ABBY: Well , I guess I should get going now .
COLIN: Any time .
ABBY: Oh . Thanks . There was a spider . On me . But it 's gone now . He chuckles , hands her D'Artagnan .
COLIN: Good night . He closes the door .
ABBY: I 'm such an idiot
COLIN: You alright ? She freezes .
ABBY: Yes . I 'm going now . Good night .
MIKE: If you want a woman to keep sleeping with you there are certain things you never say .
ABBY: I feel so dirty . Mike approaches them .
MIKE: And did you hear Corporate 's coming
ABBY: I hope you can chew with your mouth closed . She turns and walks off .
MIKE: What 's up with her ?
JOY: She 's spiraling lower and lowe into a morass of self-loathing and intense hatred for you .
MIKE: Yeah , I picked up on that .
ABBY: Your innards are of no consequence to me . I hate what you represent .
MIKE: You hate the truth ?
ABBY: Your skewed perception of male- female interaction is not `` the truth '' .
MIKE: But your imaginary boyfriend 's the truth ?
ABBY: For your information , I happened to meet him last night .
MIKE: I really hope he 's real this time , ecause otherwise this is just sad .
ABBY: Oh , he 's very real . Not to mention stunningly handsome and morally sound . His name 's Colin .
MIKE: You know what that means ?
ABBY: What ?
MIKE: He had to stick his finger up some guy 's butt in medical school .
ABBY: You disgust me .
MIKE: So , did butt-boy ask you out ?
ABBY: Not exactly . We 're taking things slow getting to know each othe first . Why am I talking about this with you ?
MIKE: You 're the one who brought it up .
ABBY: Dr. Anderson is everything that you could never be . In fact .
MIKE: You 're calling the guy ? ! You ca n't do that . You 've got ta let him call you .
ABBY: Please . It 's the twenty-first century Abby shoots Mike a snide grin .
COLIN: Oh , hi . Everything okay ? We INTERCUT .
ABBY: Could n't be better . I just wanted to call and tell you how much I enjoyed meeting you .
COLIN: Oh , thanks .
ABBY: So I was just thinking that we should have dinner .
COLIN: Oh great .
ABBY: There 's this new French Bistro that got fantastic reviews and there 's a gallery opening in Old Town on Friday . So , if you want , we could have dinner , then go to the opening .
COLIN: Hmmm , Friday wow .
ABBY: Is that not a good time ?
COLIN: Actually , Abby , I 'm still kind of unsettled with the move and everything so I ` m really not
ABBY: What the hell are you doing ?
MIKE: Saving you . He was blowing you off .
ABBY: He was not .
MIKE: Do n't ! He 'll be expecting you to call him back . When you do n't , he 'll call you .
ABBY: How do you know ?
MIKE: Because I know men . If you want it to work out with this guy , you 'll listen to me and do exactly as I say . You already did irreparable damage with your psycho-aggressive control freak phone call . It might even be too late . Even if you do salvage the situation , you 'll probably never be more than Abby , his desperate neighbor .
ABBY: I 'm not desperate ! Why , did I sound desperate ?
MIKE: Listen to you desperately asking me if you sound desperate .
ABBY: Okay . What do I do ?
MIKE: Pick up the phone and say `` Hey , Doug . ''
ABBY: Why would I
MIKE: Just do it . She answers the phone .
ABBY: Hey , Doug .
COLIN: No , this is Colin . We INTERCUT .
ABBY: Oh my God . Sorry .
COLIN: Who 's Doug ?
MIKE: Just a guy I 'm seeing . It 's nothing serious . Abby hesitates . Mike shoves her .
ABBY: Just a guy I 'm seeing . It 's nothing serious .
COLIN: Oh .
MIKE: Hang on a sec .
ABBY: Hang on a sec . Mike puts the phone on hold .
MIKE: Make him wait . A long pause .
ABBY: This is so rude .
MIKE: That 's the point .
ABBY: When do I pick up ?
MIKE: Never . You make him wait until he gets frustrated and hangs up . If he 's still holding on after thirty more seconds , you may actually have a chance .
ABBY: You 'd better be right about this .
MIKE: Think about it . Would you wait on hold for somebody you were trying to blow off ?
ABBY: You have a point .
MIKE: Just give me a little bit of time and I can make this guy your bitch .
ABBY: I do n't want a `` bitch . '' And Colin would never be a bitch . He 's a well-rounded man capable of mature emotions and deep abiding love . Things which you know not of .
MIKE: Maybe not , but I know about lust , seduction , and manipulation . And clearly , you do not .
ABBY: Why would you want to help me ?
MIKE: Because then you 'll have to admit that I know more about this stuff than you do .
ABBY: My God , you 're right . Now what ? Mike hangs up the phone .
MIKE: Always make an impression . Let 's get out of here . We have work to do .
ABBY: But what about
MIKE: Do n't worry , in five seconds he 'll call back .
ABBY: What are you , Nostradamus ? That 's The phone RINGS again .
COLIN: Unbelievable .
MIKE: Rule number one . Never criticize .
ABBY: Even if it 's constructive ?
MIKE: Never . Men are incapable of growth , change or progress . For men , self- improvement ends at toilet- training . Rule number two . Laugh at whatever he says .
ABBY: What if what he 's saying is n't funny ?
MIKE: That 's irrelevant . A fake laugh is like a fake orgasm .
ABBY: And a fake orgasm is good ?
MIKE: No , but a fake orgasm is bette than no orgasm at all .
ABBY: A fake orgasm is no orgasm .
MIKE: Only to you . You 're not the only person in the room , you know . Let 's not be selfish .
ABBY: You 'll never know . He raises an eyebrow , impressed .
MIKE: Rule number three . Never talk about your problems . Men do n't really listen or care .
ABBY: Some men care .
MIKE: No . Some men pretend to care . When we ask you how you 're doing , it 's just guy code for `` let me put my dick in your ass . ''
ABBY: Okay , I 'm trying to decide whethe I should just walk away right now , or run .
MIKE: I know you think Colin is above it all , but he 's a guy . If he 's even emotely into you , he 's thought about each one of your orifices at least ten times .
ABBY: I love how you assume every man is as perverse as you are .
MIKE: I do n't assume . I know .
ABBY: What 's wrong with my look ?
MIKE: Sports bras ? Khakis ? Srunchies ? Nurse shoes ?
ABBY: These are n't nurse shoes ! They 're Lady Keds .
MIKE: Abby , you 're a very attractive woman but you are completely inaccessible . You 're all about comfort and efficiency .
ABBY: What 's wrong with comfort and efficiency ?
MIKE: Nothing . Except no one wants to fuck it . With that , a MONTAGE BEGINS
ABBY: I am not getting breast implants .
MIKE: Size is n't everything . Breasts just have to be friendly . They have to say , `` Hello , everybody ! Look at me ! '' Abby looks down at her breasts , curiously .
ABBY: What are mine saying ?
MIKE: Uh , `` I 'm reading Tolstoy and I do n't want to be disturbed '' ?
ABBY: Really ? I hate Tolstoy . A SALESWOMAN passes them .
SALESWOMAN: This should do the trick .
MIKE: Sweet . Strap it on , flapjacks . Abby glares at him as we CUT TO
ABBY: I look like a hooker .
MIKE: That 's a good thing .
ABBY: You 're not touching my hair until I know exactly what you 're going to do with it .
MIKE: We 're giving you bedhead .
ABBY: Why would I want bedhead ?
MIKE: Bedhead is sexy . A ponytail implies that you are either operating heavy machinery o emptying the litter box . Neither of these things inspires an erection .
ABBY: Well just do n't sit there . Say something .
MIKE: Glasses .
ABBY: Huh ?
MIKE: You need glasses .
ABBY: But I wear contacts . Besides , does n't the woman usually remove glasses during a makeover ?
MIKE: Yeah , but we 're going for a stripperlibrarian thing . Right now , I would n't trust you to find me a book .
ABBY: I know how to flirt .
MIKE: Do you want to be an old maid ?
ABBY: So , if I do n't listen to you , I 'll e an old maid ?
MIKE: `` My name 's Abby and I 'm arthritic and alone . I have eighteen cats who keep me company . ''
ABBY: Oh , ha ha . That 's very funny . `` Are you wearing underwear ? '' She grabs his ass .
MIKE: Come on ! I would n't say that and I would n't grab ass .
ABBY: `` Hey babe , what 's wrong with a little ass grabbing ? '' `` I mean what 's the point of you even having one unless it 's there for me to grab it ? You 're just a set of orifices and a pair of tee- tas . ''
MIKE: You 're a deeply , deeply disturbed person .
ABBY: Maybe I 'm just a good student .
MIKE: Would you stop doing that ?
ABBY: Doing what ?
MIKE: Touching me with your finger . She seductively leans into him .
ABBY: Why ? Am I turning you on ?
MIKE: Maybe . She gives him a look .
ABBY: Actually , I kind of like it .
MIKE: Really She leans in closer .
ABBY: Sucker . He shoves her away .
MIKE: No teaching the teacher . Just then , the doorbell RINGS .
ABBY: Who is it ?
MIKE: Told you he 'd drop by .
ABBY: I 'm not ready for this . Am I ? I 'm not .
MIKE: Calm down . Keep the conversation under a minute . Be mysterious . Keep him guessing .
ABBY: Oh . Hey .
COLIN: Hi . Wow , you look great .
ABBY: Thanks .
COLIN: What happened to you today ?
ABBY: What do you mean ?
COLIN: You put me on hold and did n't call me back .
ABBY: That was you ? I 'm so sorry .
ABBY: Now what ?
MIKE: Make him suffer .
COLIN: Do you follow baseball ? We INTERCUT with Mike .
MIKE: There 's no right answer to that question . Do something non- committal
COLIN: I 'm really more of a fair weathe fan myself . I do like watching Mike DeLoggia pitch , though . Amazing one structure .
MIKE: Laugh .
COLIN: What 's so funny ?
ABBY: Your joke .
COLIN: What joke ?
MIKE: Shit , he was serious ?
ABBY: Thank you .
COLIN: For what ? Abby realizes she 's spoken aloud .
ABBY: Thank you for just being you .
COLIN: You 're welcome
MIKE: Okay , no more improvising . Just epeat everything I say , `` You 're so much fun to be with . ''
ABBY: You 're so much fun to be with .
COLIN: Thanks . A FAN calls to Mike .
FAN: Hey , down in front !
MIKE: You 're not like the other guys I ` ve dated .
ABBY: You 're not like the other guys I 've dated .
FAN: Hey , sit down , jackass .
MIKE: You 're so much more interesting and informed .
ABBY: You 're so much more interesting and informed .
COLIN: That 's nice to hear .
MIKE: Dude , what the fuck ? !
ABBY: Dude , what the fuck ? !
COLIN: What ? Abby blanches , waiting for Mike instructions .
MIKE: Oh , shit .
ABBY: Oh , shit . Colin is now just staring at her .
MIKE: No , I 'm not talking to you .
ABBY: I 'm not talking to you .
COLIN: Did I do something wrong ?
MIKE: Abby , listen tell him you saw him looking at another girl . It 's the only way out of this .
ABBY: Were you looking at another girl ?
COLIN: Who ?
ABBY: Uh her ?
COLIN: Yeah . I was just trying to get us a hot dog .
ABBY: Oh .
MIKE: Alright , we need a recovery . Make sure to eat your hot dog slowly . Men like watching penis-shaped food go into a girl 's mouth .
ABBY: What ? !
COLIN: It 's fine , really
ABBY: No , I have to get it out or else it will stain She puts some muscle into it .
COLIN: Cotton .
ABBY: Cotton 's the worst . Well actually leather 's the worst , followed by suede
POLICE OFFICER: This is a family place , ma'am . Not an open-air hand job palace .
ABBY: I understand , officer .
POLICE OFFICER: You want to pull those kind of stunts , you do it at home . Or in the backseat of a car , like moral upstanding people do . He hands her a ticket and walks off .
COLIN: Well , I ca n't say it was boring .
ABBY: That was pretty much the all-time worst first date ever .
COLIN: Gee , thanks . Mike looks worried .
MIKE: Where are you going with this ? No guy wants to hear that !
ABBY: No , no , I take full responsibility . So Thanks . But , hey , at least your pants are clean . He smiles , amused .
COLIN: You 're not what I 'm used to .
ABBY: I know
COLIN: Actually , that 's a good thing . I 'm used to women I can figure out in five seconds . I ca n't do that with you . Mike rolls his eyes .
MIKE: He 's an idiot . I figured you out in two .
ABBY: Good night .
MIKE: And walk away .
COLIN: That definitely made up for my wet crotch .
ABBY: Me , too . Just scratch that .
MIKE: I did n't do anything . It was you . Do n't ask me why , but I think he likes you .
ABBY: He 's really a great guy , is n't he ?
MIKE: Yeah , he 's dreamy .
ABBY: And he fits all ten criteria on my checklist !
MIKE: Rightwere n't items one through nine something to do with him pretty much being gay ? Abby puts her key in the door .
ABBY: I 'm going to ignore that because I 'm in a very good mood .
MIKE: Yeah , I heard , wet crotch .
JONAH: So , no date tonight ?
MIKE: As a matter of fact , I did have a date . It was n't mine , but it was a date . I was helping out a friend .
JONAH: Guy or girl ?
MIKE: Girl .
JONAH: Oohis she hot ?
MIKE: She would be if she were less irritating .
JONAH: So she likes to make fun of you clothes and stuff ?
MIKE: No , actually I make fun of hers ' .
JONAH: You told me not to do that .
MIKE: That 's right . And you should listen to me .
JONAH: If you know so much about chicks , why are you sitting here playing `` Fight Night '' with me when you could be out with the Jello girls ?
MIKE: Because this is better .
ELIZABETH: Hurry , take a picture of me . I 'm online with Fugly35 and he wants to know what i look like .
MIKE: You really want to go out with a guy named Fugly35 ?
ELIZABETH: He 's being ironic . Look , he 's hot . She holds up her laptop . Mike peers at it .
MIKE: Uhlook closer . That 's Jim Morrison . Who I 'm pretty sure is n't an accountant in Rio Rancho .
ELIZABETH: Shit . Are you serious ? Jonah holds out his hand to his mom .
JONAH: You owe me a dollar .
MIKE: What are you wasting your time on the internet for anyway ?
ELIZABETH: Says the man who has n't had a decent relationship since 1999 .
MIKE: At least I date .
ELIZABETH: Noyou fornicate .
DR. LESTER: Of all primates , Bonobos are the closest relatives to human beings , oth genetically and socially - especially when it comes to sex . For the Bonobo , sex is a way to ease stress and diffuse tensions .
MIKE: So summing up Bonobo-land , the chicks look great , get freaky in ed and in turn , they get to sit on their asses and boss their men around all day .
DR. LESTER: That 's one way of looking at it .
MIKE: If that 's not an argument fo evolution , I do n't know what is . He winks at the camera as
CAMERA GUY: Cut !
MIKE: What did you think ?
ABBY: It was good .
MIKE: Did you hear Corporate 's taking me to Saffron tonight ? What do you think
ABBY: Colin called . He wants to get together again .
MIKE: Cool .
ABBY: How long do you think I should wait to sleep with him ?
MIKE: The more you make him beg for it , the more you 've got him on the hook . Do everything but . Then show him beneath that control freak exterior , there 's a sexual deviant waiting to be unleashed .
ABBY: I am not a sexual deviant .
MIKE: Good point . If memory serves us ight , you 've been out of practice for what ? A year ?
ABBY: Noeleven months .
MIKE: Alright , well , how often do you
ABBY: Do I what ?
MIKE: You know Flick the bean ?
ABBY: What bean ? Mike throws her a look . Abby catches on .
MIKE: No , I call it masturbating , but I thought it would offend you delicate lady-like sensibilities . So how often do you flick it ?
MIKE: What could be more personal ?
ABBY: I just do n't think of myself that way .
MIKE: Well , you need to start . Because if you do n't want to have sex with you , why the hell should Colin ?
ABBY: Great .
MIKE: You have to come with me .
ABBY: Where ?
MIKE: My dinner with Corporate . I do n't want to fuck it up .
ABBY: I ca n't . I have a date with Colin .
MIKE: We 'll pick him up on the way .
ABBY: Mike , I 'm not going on your dinner .
MIKE: So , if it does n't go well and they cut the segment and the ratings go ack down to negative fourteen and they cancel the show , you 're cool with that ? Abby thinks a moment , then
ABBY: Let me get my purse .
COLIN: Hey , you 're early
ABBY: Yeah Mike pops out from behind Abby .
MIKE: I 'm Mike . Change in plans . Gra your keys . We got ta go . As Colin looks confused , we CUT TO
ABBY: We 'll just stay for one drink . I 'm eally sorry about this .
COLIN: No worries . Are you a news producer as well ?
MIKE: No , dude , I 'm the talent .
COLIN: So you 're one of the anchors ?
MIKE: No , `` The Ugly Truth . '' Has n't he ever seen our show ?
ABBY: Not everyone wants to start thei day by watching you rant about implants and g-strings .
COLIN: You talk about g-strings ?
ABBY: Oh , look ! We 're here !
MIKE: Hey , ladies . You 're looking quite fetching .
BAMBI: Hi , Mike !
CANDI: Do you like my dress ? She leans over and displays her cleavage .
ABBY: Are these the Jello Girls ?
MIKE: Yeah , they 're my dates .
STUART: Hey , the gang 's all here ! Abby , you know Harold and Bob .
ABBY: Of course .
BOB: And we all know Mike Alexander They slap him on the back , eyeing the twins .
HAROLD: And who are these lovely ladies ?
BOB: Something tells me we wo n't be talking about the news tonight
MIKE: So , you guys here to give me a aise , or what ?
STUART: That 's my guy . Always with the jokes . Abby turns to Bob and Harold .
ABBY: We 're really excited about the atings increase this year . Next quarter we hope to
COLIN: What 's wrong ?
ABBY: Nothing She leans down to grab her purse .
MIKE: What are you doing ?
ABBY: I 'm looking for the remote .
MIKE: What remote ?
ABBY: Fortheunderwear . Mike starts laughing .
MIKE: You 're wearing them ? Now ?
COLIN: Are you okay ?
ABBY: This ceviche is just so.GOOD ! I 'm going to ask the chef for the ooh recipe ! Excuse me She starts to get up when Stuart stops her .
STUART: Hold on . Tell Harold about the new teaser campaign we 're starting next week . You 're going to love this .
MIKE: Yeah , Abby . Tell us about the teasers . Abby glares at Mike and sits back down .
ABBY: Well , it 's fifteen secondseach hour .
MIKE: Actually , I 'm really enjoying the way you 're telling them .
CANDI: What 's in a ceviche ?
ABBY: It 's fifteen seconds every hour of Mike telling an Ugly Truth andJesusGOD , they 're good . She leaps to her feet . ABBY Ohhhhh
STUART: See what I mean about her ?
COLIN: You 've got to love her enthusiasm .
MIKE: Sorry , buddy , that 's my toy .
ABBY: You knew he had it the whole time , did n't you ?
MIKE: No , just part of the time . Figured I should let you finish . She shoots him a look . MIKE Seriously , thanks for coming tonight . I mean , you know , to dinner .
ABBY: You would have done fine without me .
MIKE: I know .
ABBY: Really ? Colin walks up .
COLIN: Are we ready to go ? I know Abby is . Harold and Bob shake hands with Mike .
HAROLD: Keep up the good work , Mike .
BOB: And thanks for introducing us to our future ex-wives .
MIKE: You kids play safe .
COLIN: I think we 've got it from here . Mike 's truck pulls up and he gets in .
MIKE: Do n't do anything I would n't do .
COLIN: I ca n't believe I 've never seen this before . Abby grins , pleased .
DRUNK GUY: Dude , you got me laid three times last month . Drinks are on me .
MIKE: Just doing my job .
CUTE BRUNETTE: I got implants , just like you said !
MIKE: Indeed you did .
DWAYNE: Here 's to implants ! Steve clinks his beer bottle against Mike 's .
STEVE: You 're a rock star , bro .
WAITER: A bottle of water to start ?
COLIN: Yes , a bottle of flat , please .
ABBY: I 'll have one , too . Colin smiles at her as THE MONTAGE ENDS .
MIKE: I forgot , Colin only likes `` women of quality . ''
ABBY: That 's a trait to be admired , not mocked , man-whore .
MIKE: Who says I 'm a man-whore ?
ABBY: I 've seen you with the Funbag Twins , remember ?
MIKE: You saw me what ? Take them to dinner and introduce them to some network executives ? They want to be actresses . Who am I to kill thei dreams ?
ABBY: You 're telling me you 've neve slept with those girls ?
MIKE: I did n't say that
ABBY: Exactly my point . Man-whores want women who wear slutty clothes and suck lots of cock .
MIKE: Every man wants that . And for you information , I was only with the one who can read . Did you just say cock ?
ABBY: What ? I can say cock . You do n't own that word . Cock . There . I said it again .
MIKE: A week ago you cried at the thought of a vibrator . Now you 're all `` cock this , '' '' cock that . '' You had sex with Colin , did n't you ?
ABBY: NO ! We 're saving that for this weekend . He 's taking me to Santa Fe .
MIKE: You sure you 're ready for that ?
ABBY: Of course I 'm ready .
MIKE: You do n't sound ready .
ABBY: Well , I am ready . Mike holds up a glass .
MIKE: Here 's to overturning assumptions . I 'm really a man of discriminating taste and you 're a foul-mouthed slut .
JOY: What happened to him ? That sounded almost enlightened .
MIKE: Because once you do peel back those layers , my friends , her lady garden awaits . And I 'm pretty sure you 're gon na want to fertilize that patch of petunias . And that there is the Ugly Truth .
JOY: And he 's back .
LARRY: Next up , Javier tells us if you petunias are going to see any ainfall this weekend . Georgia winks at him .
GEORGIA: I hope mine do Abby rolls her eyes as Mike walks up .
ABBY: Yes , the city gets treated to flower-vagina metaphors . Georgia O'Keefe would be so pleased .
AGENT: Are you ready for this ? I just got you on to `` The Tonight Show '' . They want you as a guest . Mike is stunned .
MIKE: Jay Leno wants me on his show ? You 're shitting me . Abby looks at the agent , confused .
ABBY: Who are you ?
MIKE: This is Rick . My agent .
ABBY: Since when do you have an agent ?
AGENT: Since he became the hottest thing in morning TV .
MIKE: Holy shit . Leno ? This is amazing .
ABBY: Yeah
AGENT: You leave tomorrow . Let 's go clea it with Stuart .
MIKE: How cool is this ? They walk off as Abby stands there .
ABBY: What 's our story at the top of the hour ?
JOSH: Global warming .
DORI: Jesus . Again ?
JOSH: Oh , I 'm sorry , did Anna Nicole come ack from the dead ? Stuart pokes his head in .
STUART: Abby ? I need you . She rises and goes out into the hall .
ABBY: What 's up ?
STUART: I just found out Mike was offered a job by the local NBC affiliate at twice the pay . This Leno thing is his audition .
ABBY: What ? !
STUART: If Bob and Harold find out about this , we 're dead . I need you to fly out there and talk him out of it .
ABBY: Today ? Now ? But I 'm going to Santa Fe
STUART: Just do n't let him know you know eforehand . Let him do the show and get us our publicity , then convince him to sign with us for the next three years . Now go .
ABBY: Hi , stupid motherfucker who 'd still e on cable access if it were n't for me . I hear you 're moving to
CAB DRIVER: What did you just call me ?
ABBY: Nothing . Just practicing my speech .
MIKE: Abby ? What are you doing here ?
ABBY: Stuart decided you needed a cheerleader .
MIKE: I thought you were going to Santa Fe
ABBY: Apparently , he felt that you needed a producer more than I needed to get laid .
MIKE: I 'm sorry you did n't get to meet little Colin this weekend . And by little , I do n't mean undersized , although I highly suspect that 's the case .
ABBY: Really ? Colin 's penis ? That 's what you want to talk about right now ? I was thinking maybe we should talk about what you 're gon na say on the show . So , tell me Mike . How did `` The Ugly Truth '' start ?
MIKE: Well , Jay , I had a sales job where I drove around a lot , listening to talk radio . I started calling in and lo and behold , people liked what I had to say . Then I decided what the hell , I need my own show . I have a message people need to hear . Abby rolls her eyes , still angry with him .
ABBY: Yes thousands of lives are being enriched by your wisdom .
MIKE: Excuse me , lady , but you have a oyfriend right now because of me .
ABBY: It may have started because of you , ut it 's lasted because of me .
MIKE: So , you 've been acting like you normal control freak psycho self in front of him ?
ABBY: I 'm not a control freak .
MIKE: When you checked into the hotel , did you or did you not insist on getting an `` Eastern-facing '' room on `` a floor not below seven '' ?
ABBY: I like rising with the sun . And a view .
MIKE: My point is , Colin likes the Mike version of Abby , not the Abby version of Abby . So , do n't go knocking my words of wisdom when you 're living proof that they work . Abby sits there , fuming that he 's right .
ABBY: I could be having sex right now
MIKE: Yeah , thanks to me .
AGENT: Dude , this is awesome . You 're about to go on Leno ! NBC is going to give you the moon
MIKE: This is n't helping .
AGENT: Just do what you always do .
MIKE: What do I always do ?
AGENT: Uh
ABBY: You entertain people with you moronery . And they love you for it . Mike looks at her , surprised .
MIKE: That might be the nicest thing you 've ever said to me .
ABBY: Your welcome .
JAY: So what 's your number one piece of advice to all the people out there who are trying to find love ?
MIKE: Do n't do it . Try to find lust instead . It 's a lot easier and a lot less messy . Blue balls only last a few hours . A broken heart can last years .
JAY: So , what 's her name ?
MIKE: Who ?
JAY: The girl who screwed you up . She must have been a doozy .
MIKE: Like I said , better a floozy than a doozy .
JAY: Well , what do you say to guys like me who have been happily married for twenty-seven years ? We ca n't be the exception to the rule , can we ? There 's plenty of us out there .
MIKE: Well , Jay , let me tell ya
JAY: You 're right . I 'm going to get a divorce . My whole life is a lie . Sorry , honey . The audience laughs , as we CUT TO
STUART: Did you get him ? Is he ours ?
ABBY: I 'm working on it . She hangs up as Mike and his Agent approach . ABBY You were amazing out there .
MIKE: Was I ?
AGENT: You go ahead and hold our table , doll . We 've got some business to discuss .
ABBY: Where 's Rick ?
MIKE: I sent him home . I thought we should celebrate on our own . Abby 's surprised , then suspicious .
ABBY: What exactly are we celebrating ?
MIKE: Uh , hello ? Leno ? I was just on it . Maybe you saw ?
ABBY: I know about the offer from NBC . He looks at her , surprised , then
MIKE: Okay , well then you know I turned it down . If it were n't for you , I 'd still be on Channel 83 . So do n't worry , I 'm not going anywhere .
ABBY: Really ?
MIKE: Relax . Drink . Enjoy . You did you job . I 'm re-signing with you . Now let 's stop talking about work . Abby sips her mojito , studying Mike .
ABBY: Sowho was the doozy ?
MIKE: What are you , trying to kill my uzz ?
ABBY: No , I 'm interested . In what makes youyou . Mike sighs , deciding to level with her .
MIKE: It was n't just oneit was more like a parade . By the time I hit thirty , I realized you can only have so many bad relationships efore you figure out there 's no such thing as a good one .
ABBY: You ca n't really believe there 's no such thing as a good relationship .
MIKE: To my very core . Just then , the waitress walks up .
WAITRESS: Two more mojitos ?
ABBY: And some water , please .
WAITRESS: Still or sparkling ?
MIKE: Just bring us tap water . She nods and leaves . Abby stares at him .
ABBY: So I 've been told . He stands up .
MIKE: C'mon , let 's dance .
ABBY: I do n't think so .
MIKE: I 'm serious . I 've seen your spazzy dance , now I want to see the real thing .
ABBY: I ca n't dance like that .
MIKE: I can . Mike grabs her hand and leads her onto
ABBY: Mike , no
MIKE: You 'll be fine .
ABBY: Oh my God . How did you learn to -
ABBY: So the car 's picking us up downstairs at eight . You want me to call you ?
MIKE: I 'll get a wake up call .
ABBY: Good idea . There 's a moment of uncomfortable silence . ABBY I had a great time .
MIKE: Me , too .
ABBY: Remember , the car 's
MIKE: Picking us up at eight . Got it . The elevator comes to a stop .
ABBY: Bright and early .
MIKE: Good night . Neither lets go . They give a longer kiss .
ABBY: Good night .
MIKE: Good night .
ABBY: Yeah .
COLIN: Miss me ? It takes a moment for Abby to adjust .
ABBY: Colin ?
COLIN: You were expecting someone else ?
ABBY: Uh , no He walks in the room , holding up the wine .
COLIN: Since you could n't come to Santa Fe , I decided to come to you .
ABBY: How 'd you find me ?
COLIN: Joy told me . I started thinking about all the things we were going to do there and I decided I could n't wait .
ABBY: Oh . Okay
COLIN: What 's the matter ?
ABBY: Nothing . I 'm just so surprised to see you .
COLIN: Well , you told me you were spontaneous . Guess the proof is in the pudding .
ABBY: It sure is
COLIN: Whoops . Looks like we 'll have to get naked sooner than I thought .
MIKE: Abby I really need to kiss you again . And not just in a one-night stand way , in a totally different way . Oh fuck , what am I doing ?
COLIN: Oh , you 're not room service . How ya ' doin ' , man ? Mike reels , trying to cover his shock .
MIKE: I just came by to tell Abby about the change in our flight time . But I can tell her later . Abby appears behind Colin .
ABBY: Mike , what are you doing here ?
MIKE: Just leaving . He turns and goes .
ABBY: Mike He keeps walking as she tries to keep up . ABBY He just showed up to surprise me .
MIKE: How convenient .
ABBY: I thought it was you at the door . He stops and looks at her .
MIKE: I guess we 're all interchangeable . I 've taught you well . Maybe you should take over the show . He starts to walk off .
ABBY: Mike , wait tell me what just happened in the elevator . They hold eye contact for a very long moment . ABBY Should I tell Colin to go ? Mike looks away .
MIKE: Why pull up anchor now ? You 've worked damn hard to get him here .
ABBY: Really ? That 's it ? That 's all you have to say .
MIKE: What else do you want me to say ? A lot . But he 's not saying it .
ABBY: I guess the truth is ugly , is n't it ?
MIKE: That 's what I 've been telling you . He shrugs and walks off .
ABBY: Sorry , about that . He was upset about his performance on Leno .
COLIN: No worries . The rest of the night is ours . He pours her a glass of wine . COLIN To the first of many romantic evenings to come .
ABBY: Why do you like me ?
COLIN: Well , you 're beautiful , you 're smart Abby smiles , pleased , then he continues COLIN You 're open , you laugh at my jokes , you never criticize Abby 's smile fades . COLIN You never try to control the situation , and I 've got to say , it 's a breath of fresh air . A lot of women I know are total control freaks and it 's a nightmare . I love that you 're not like that . Abby looks at him , nodding , then
ABBY: You know what ? I am like that .
COLIN: What do you mean ?
ABBY: To be honest , I did n't like the way you poured the wine . I would have decanted it . And I was editing that speech as you were giving it . She looks around . ABBY Plus , this bed should be facing north-south instead of east-west !
COLIN: Are you serious ?
ABBY: I have n't been myself for one second of the two weeks and five days we 've been dating .
COLIN: Then who have you been ?
ABBY: The girl some idiot told me to be .
FLIGHT ATTENDANT: Miss , we 're going to need you to oard now .
ABBY: Morning , Freddy .
STUART: I thought you said we had him .
ABBY: What are you talking about ?
STUART: He quit this morning . I got a smug call from Channel 4 saying they closed a deal with him . Corporate 's having a shit fit . What the hell happened ?
ABBY: We do n't need Mike Alexander . He 's a dime a dozen .
STUART: You better hope so , because you 're going to find me a new one by the end of the week .
ABBY: Yes . No . Yes . No . No . I ca n't believe I even considered for a second allowing myself to feel something for him .
JOY: I still ca n't believe that you oke up with Colin .
ABBY: I know I ca n't control everything . As much as I 'd like to .
BIG WIG: What do you think of the new set ?
MIKE: Love it .
BIG WIG: And this is Joe , your new producer .
MIKE: You know what I like best about you , Joe ? I do n't want to have sex with you at all .
JOE: I 'm relieved to hear that . The Big Wigs chortle .
BIG WIG: How much do we love this guy ?
JONAH: Dude , check it out . Balloon Fiesta .
MIKE: Yep .
JONAH: Why do you look like a lawyer ?
MIKE: New station . New wardrobe .
JONAH: You 're never going to get any pussy looking like that .
MIKE: Where do you get this stuff ?
JONAH: From you .
MIKE: Look at me , Jonah . I 'm 38 , I 'm still single , I live alone Does it look like it 's all working out ? If there 's one thing you do n't want to be , it 's like me .
JONAH: I 'm pretty sure you do n't want to open your new show with that .
JACK MAGNUM: How 's my skin ? Too shiny ? How are my pores ?
JOY: Tiny .
JACK MAGNUM: Which side is better ? Left ? Right ? Full-frontal ? Joy looks at Abby , a little worried .
ABBY: They 're all fine . But let 's go over your intro . `` I 'm Jack Magnum and this is ''
JACK MAGNUM: The Ugly Truth !
ABBY: Oh-kay . Let 's maybe lose the gun .
JACK MAGNUM: What ? The gun is my signature move .
ABBY: Unless the NRA is paying you mortgage this month , I say lose the fucking gun .
JOY: And we 're live in five , four , three , two
CLIFF: Think this guy 's any good ?
STUART: He better be .
STUART: Oh , Jesus . He 's going political .
JONAH: Dude , check this out . You eplacement 's on .
MIKE: My what ? Mike looks over to see
JACK MAGNUM: Most of you are watching this show so you can learn how to get chicks . Let me assure you , you 're in good hands . You 're looking at a guy who 's personally had sex with ove 137 women . Most of them conscious .
ABBY: He 's ad-libbing . Why is he ad- libbing ? There 's no ad-libbing .
MIKE: Oh , this is beautiful .
CLIFF: What is she doing ?
STUART: Hey , Harold . Yes , I know we 're fixing it .
ABBY: Take Mike Alexander , for instance . He up and quit the show without so much as a word . You think you know what men are going to do , you think you know what they want to dobut when it comes down to the moment where they actually have to nut up , they turn around and do something completely different .
MIKE: Oh , I 'm all over this . He races out , as Jonah calls after him .
JONAH: I do n't think she 's into you , guy !
ABBY: The big , strong , romantic men we 've een reading about in novels and watching in movies since we were nine ? They 're fallacies . `` Blue Lagoon '' is a total freakin ' lie . Men are not strong . Men are not ave. Men are afraid .
LARRY: I love `` Blue Lagoon '' . Georgia squeezes his hand .
GEORGIA: I know you do , honey .
ABBY: They 're afraid to say what they feel . Afraid to grow up . Afraid to tell the truth .
JONAH: It 's like she 's in his brain !
ABBY: Even if they have a moment in a hotel elevator that 's totally omantic and filled with potential , men are completely incapable of copping to it . Because men are weak .
MIKE: Women would have us believe that they are the victims . They are n't . They want us to think that we break their hearts for sport . That 's crap . They say they want romance . They say they want true love , but all they want is a checklist . Is he perfect ? Is he handsome ? Is he a doctor ?
CLIFF: I thought he quit .
STUART: See ? I told you she 'd get him back .
ABBY: That is not true . BY THE CAMERAMAN , Joy shrugs .
JOY: Well , kinda true . Mike continues his rant .
MIKE: You men that fit the criteria do n't kid yourselves . They 're not sleeping with you . They 're sleeping with a carefully calculated set of venal choices . Money ove substance . Looks over soul . Polish over principles . No gesture , no matter how real or romantic , will ever compensate for a really impressive list of credentials .
ABBY: Says the man who 's never made a gesture except for this one
MIKE: So , the elevator was n't a gesture ?
ABBY: The elevator was a moment of passion , followed by a moment of panic on your part , apparently .
STUART: What elevator ?
MIKE: I came by your room !
ABBY: And then you ran away .
MIKE: Well , that was n't panic , sweetheart . It was an unwillingness to compete with the walking checklist that was in your bed . You should be thanking me . NEARBY , Joy taps her watch .
JOY: We have ten seconds . An OVERZEALOUS BALLOON PILOT walks up .
PILOT: Are we ready to soar up , up and away ? IN THE BASKET , Mike looks at the camera .
MIKE: And that 's the Ugly Truth , folks . A girl in heat for two guys will always pick the one with the bette esume .
ABBY: That is bullsh
JOY: And we 're out . Keep rolling on B-camera .
ABBY: I hate you so much I just swore on live television .
MIKE: No , you hate yourself for being so shallow .
PILOT: Off we go !
ABBY: Where are we going ? !
MIKE: I 'm not going anywhere with you . Mike starts to climb out .
ABBY: What a shock . You 're bailing .
PILOT: I would n't recommend that Mike looks down to see
STUART: They do n't know the camera is on , do they ?
CLIFF: Nuh-uh .
MIKE: Hey ! I know we can pass the time with you telling me how much fun you and Colin had having sex in Los Angeles .
ABBY: I broke up with Colin in Los Angeles , jackass . Mike is thrown , turning to look at her .
MIKE: What ?
PILOT: To our left , we have the Sandia Mountains , glistening in the afternoon twilight Abby ignores the pilot .
ABBY: Oh , that got your interest ? If you think we 're going to finish what we started in LA , you 're out of you mind . You lost your chance .
PILOT: And to our right , you 'll see the Rio Grande River winding its way through the diochramatic landscape Mike ignores the pilot as well .
MIKE: I never had a chance with you .
PILOT: And off in the distance , we have the Petroglyph National Monument , where
ABBY: Can you stop talking , please ?
MIKE: What does that mean ?
ABBY: `` I 'm Mike Alexander . I like girls in Jello . I like to fuck like a monkey . Do n't fall in love it 's ` scary . ' ''
JOY: Do n't worry , I saw this coming , so I got us a three second delay .
MIKE: Yeah , it is `` scary . '' It 's fucking terrifying . Especially because I 'm in love with a psycho like you .
ELIZABETH: Did he just say
JONAH: `` Love '' ?
ABBY: I am not a psycho .
MIKE: I just told you I loved you and all you heard was `` psycho '' . You are the definition of neurotic .
ABBY: The definition of neurotic is a person who suffers from anxiety , obsessional thoughts , compulsive acts and physical ailments without having any objective evidence of disease
MIKE: Again , I just told you I 'm in love with you and you 're standing here giving me a vocabulary lesson . Back me up on this , buddywho here is afraid ?
PILOT: I 'm just going to drink my champagne .
ABBY: You 're in love with me . Really . Why ?
MIKE: Beats the shit out of me , but I am .
STUART: Joy , how do you feel about a promotion ?
JOY: I feel good about it .
ABBY: If you say `` just kidding '' , I 'm going to throw you out of this alloon and watch your body splatter to the ground .
MIKE: Are you going to threaten me with death when we have sex ? Because it might be distracting . The Pilot looks worried for his safety .
PILOT: May I suggest you wait until we land ?
MIKE: As many of you know , sometimes a guy 's got ta admit what he thought was the truth is n't necessarily the whole truth . Yes , women have a checklist , but sometimes that list includes a foul-mouthed idiot who took way too long to realize he was in love . Let 's continue this conversation in a second . WE PULL BACK to REVEAL
JONAH: Has anyone ever told you you have a stupendous bosom ?
JOY: Not lately , so feel free to say it again .
MIKE: Zoom in on this , guys . I want the whole city to see how lucky I am .
ELIZABETH: What ? No one 's ever going to elieve this . I need proof .
ABBY: What 's this ?
MIKE: Hope you do n't mind , but we 're live .
ABBY: No , what 's Jorge doing so close ? We need a master .
MIKE: You knew about this ?
ABBY: HelloI 'm the producer . It 's sweeps week . How do you think I got them to pay for this ?
MIKE: God , I love you . He turns to the camera .
ABBY: Is n't it beautiful ?
LUCIEN ESNAULT: C'est parti .
GEORGINA: Albert ! Elle parle avec un lger accent tranger .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Sur l'honneur ! Albert contourne le comptoir .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Bon !
GEORGINA: Chhhhut ! Albert ! Vous fchez pas ! Albert revient un peu sur ses pas .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Oui Chef !
GEORGINA: Calmez-vous ! Je vous demande pardon .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Oui Chef !
GEORGINA: Oh , c'est beau !
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Je croyais que c'tait une avenue ?
OFFICIER ALLEMAND: Schnell !
UNE FILLE: H ! Attendez-moi !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Achtung , monsieur ! Achtung !
GEORGINA: Allez ! Allez ! Descendez dans la cave .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Ils bombardent Le Havre . Dans le ciel , un avion largue des bombes . Retour sur les deux hommes .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Y aurait comme de quoi . Il se lve  son tour .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et puisque je te dis que c'est rien .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: C'est rien , c'est rien
ALBERT QUENTIN: Rien ! Il repart , suivi de Lucien .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Je veux pas mourir dbraill . Il rejoint Albert .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Oh ! Albert !
ALBERT QUENTIN: It 's a long way to go
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Arrte , Albert ! Tu vas nous faire fusiller !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert , j'ai peur ! Il la regarde longuement avant de rpondre
ALBERT QUENTIN: Bois !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je vais  Tigreville .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Qu'est-ce que c'est ? LE CHAUFFEUR DE TAXI Un client
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je vous dois combien ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Bonsoir .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Vous avez une chambre ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oh la ! J'en ai quatorze ! Entrez , monsieur .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je sais pas .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Voil
GABRIEL FOUQUET: a m ' a l'air parfait . Il pose sa valise au pied du lit .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oh benVittel , Evian , Perrier Gabriel finit d'enlever son impermable .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Oh Tout compte fait , j'ai pas soif .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et ben , comme vous voudrez . Voil Albert se dirige vers la porte .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Je m'en doute . Il t ' a rien dit ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: coute !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Vous cherchez quelque chose ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: La porte .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Droit devant vous .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Messieurs !
SIMONE: Pour monsieur , ce sera ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Un Picon-bire .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: a peut le devenir , mais pas maintenant .
SIMONE: Pour ici ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Non .
SIMONE: Pour Paris ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Non . Pour Madrid .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Un peu de silence , je tlphone en Espagne .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Claire Prvost . Il recommence  boire lentement . LUCIEN ESNAULT Pour le 14  Tigreville , je voudrais le 39
LUCIEN ESNAULT: 48 00  Madrid .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: En attendant , qu'est-ce que je vous offre ?
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Oh , un petit Calva .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Un Calva pour monsieur .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Parce que vous en ftes ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Qu'est-ce que vous appelez le mauvais ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Allo ! La rsidence Mora ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Qu'est-ce qu'il peut bien faire l-bas ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Chercher ce qu'on ne trouve plus chez nous .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Tu regrettes ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert Albert regarde toujours les photos au mur .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Hmmm ! Il se retourne .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Allez , viens te coucher , va .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Une autre bouteille !
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Je suppose que monsieur plaisante Gabriel se tourne vers lui .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Absolument pas .
UN MARIN: Il est peut-tre arm !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai but contre un pige  phoques !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: C'est lui , c'est lui qui rentre . Albert ne bouge pas .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Hmm !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Tu vois ce que je te disais . Albert bouge lentement dans le lit .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oh , merde !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Salut , papa !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et ben , qu'est-ce qui vous arrive ? Il l'aide  se relever .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai voulu descendre du train en marche . Il est enfin debout .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ben non , a m'ennuie pas . Il le guide le long du couloir .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Merci , mais moi , je ne bois pas .
ALBERT QUENTIN: C'est votre amie ? Gabriel hoche la tte .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Allez !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Non ! Il tend la main vers Albert .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Personne Retournez vous coucher , Marie-Jo .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et bien , j'espre que tout se passera bien .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Peut-tre
ALBERT QUENTIN: Le voyage votre faon de voyager . Gabriel pose la nappe et s'assoit sur le lit .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ah ! a , c'est un secret .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Sr Et alors ? Deux Xrs ? Albert hoche ngativement la tte .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Je ne bois plus . Je croque des bonbons .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Et a vous mne loin ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Papa !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oui ? Gabriel carte les bras .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Alors , qu'est-ce qui lui est arriv ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Vous avez parl de quoi ?
LE MARIN: H ! T'as vu mes dorades ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Combien , ces rougets ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quelle soire ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Un ivrogne ?
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Les Grands-Ducs ?
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Je te prviens j'en ai retenu la moiti .
ALBERT QUENTIN: T'es trop con !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Ah , tout de mme !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ohhh non ! Pas a ! Montez-moi un Vichy .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je voulais vous demander pour hier soir
ALBERT QUENTIN: Me demander quoi ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai pas fait trop de foin ? Albert pose les plats vides sur la table
ALBERT QUENTIN: Non , pas trop .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Monsieur Fouquet
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Je vois que vous aimez la plaisanterie .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je vous en prie .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Et qu'est-ce que vous lui avez rpondu ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Que j'en savais rien .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Oui
GABRIEL FOUQUET: En Espagne , madame .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Pardon ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Moi , c'est l'Espagne . Il se tourne vers elle .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: videmment , si c'est l'Espagne
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Pour fillette .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Merci .
LANDRU: Fillette ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Dix ans .
LANDRU: Dix ans fort , ou dix ans faible ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Plutt faible .
LANDRU: Vous ne dites pas a pour me faire plaisir ? Il dplace une chelle .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Qui a , nous ?
LANDRU: Lui et moi . Il descend les derniers barreaux .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai peur quand mme qu'il soit un peu grand .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Non , mais je connais ma fille .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ma foi non .
LANDRU: Vous tes trop jeune .
LANDRU: Jur .
LANDRU: a ne presse pas .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Vous fermez dj ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Nous nous connaissons ?
GEORGETTE: Voulez-vous me suivre au parloir .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Non
GEORGETTE: a lui arrive si rarement .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je ne savais pas qu'elle tait anglaise .
GEORGETTE: Elle ne l'est pas elle fait semblant . Elle redescend vers Gabriel .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: C'est ce qui a perdu Jeanne d'Arc .
MADAME VICTORIA: What are you doing ? Speaking alone ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Madame
GEORGETTE: Je vous demande deux minutes .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert
ALBERT QUENTIN: Hmm
ALBERT QUENTIN: Sentir quoi ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ah ! Il pose le cageot sur un autre cageot .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Ne parlons plus de a , va. Elle relve la tte et appelle .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Avec plaisir , chre madame .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ah non . H , vous tes notre invit , hein .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Tenez , vous allez me goter a . Il pose la bouteille sur la table .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Pourquoi buvez-vous ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: C'est exact , je prfre les rponses .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Possible .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Alors , l , vous tes con .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Cette fois , vous abusez .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Vous n'aimiez pas rver ? Albert s'arrte de marcher . Gabriel aussi .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Et maintenant ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Et une bouteille  la mer ! Il lance la flasque dans l'eau .
LA MATRESSE: Marie Fouquet , assez !
MARIE FOUQUET: Deux , trois , quatre , cinq ! a y est !
PREMIRE FILLETTE: Tu parles d'une andouille .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: on savait faire les chansons .
ALBERT QUENTIN: H oui !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: C'est vrai . Elle se tourne vers Gabriel .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ma foi , non .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Suzanne ! Il semble un peu gn .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oh , ben coute , arrte Oh , arrte !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Mais a ne l'intresse pas .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Mais si , voyons , au contraire . Albert sort une boite de cigare du tiroir .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je ne savais pas que vous partiez .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Vous nous quittez dj ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Oh , c'tait tout simple .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Mais familial .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Si . J'aurais bu avec lui . Suzanne se retourne vers son mari .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert , tu parlais pas srieusement ?
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Rponds-moi d'abord . Il ferme la fentre .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Oh !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Albert !
SUZANNE QUENTIN: L'imprvu ? Qu'est-ce que a veut dire ? Albert lui rpond d'une voix plus calme .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Il est  la cuisine . L'homme se prcipite vers la cuisine .
LE CONDUCTEUR: Vous tes compltement cingl , non ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ol !
LE CONDUCTEUR: I say , you 're crazy !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ol !
LA FOULE: Ol ! Ol ! Ol !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ol !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Vous pourriez pas faire un entracte , non ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Yo soy unico !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Fermez-la , mon vieux , oh , fermez-la .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ol , carabineros ! Como va ustedes ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Y en a pas eu , d'accident . Il se tourne vers Maurice .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ben , j'espre , ou alors il est incorrigible .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et ben , qu'est-ce qui vous prend ? Gabriel relve la tte .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je crois que j'ai honte .
ALBERT QUENTIN: D'accord , mais pas chez Esnault . Il lui prend le coude et l'entrane avec lui .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Dites donc Albert s'arrte et se tourne vers Gabriel .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Qu'est-ce que c'est que votre endroit ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Vous y allez souvent ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: J ' y allais . Il reprend son escalade , suivi par Gabriel .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Que ce soit ferm . Il reprend sa marche .
GEORGINA: C'est pas possible ! C'est un revenant ! Elle regarde Albert avec un grand sourire .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Je te permets .
GEORGINA: Enchante , monsieur .
GEORGINA: Qu'est-ce que je vous sers ? Albert se tourne vers Gabriel .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Qu'est-ce que vous voulez comme remontant ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je vous fais confiance .
GEORGINA: Bien sr .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Alors , a sera deux .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Bien sr , a se saurait .
ALBERT QUENTIN: A l'Amiral Gupratte ! Il boit . Gabriel prend un verre .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: A el Gallo , le Divin Chauve !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: A Roselito , le plus grand de tous ! Il boit .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quand on est en perm ' , c'est pour a !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ben , permets-moi au moins de t'inviter
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Y t'ont pay avec un billet de train Albert le lui prend des mains .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Tiens !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'peux pas
ALBERT QUENTIN: T'as pas confiance ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai pas de billet
GEORGINA: Bonsoir , et bonne rentre .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Madame , j'ai t charm , positivement charm . Il sort  son tour , d'un pas un peu hsitant .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Merde !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: T'as le coup de pompe ? Du pouce , Albert montre le bar derrire lui .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: A qui a ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Aux affreux ! Allez viens .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Deux Calvas !
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Sois le bienvenu , Albert . Il redescend lentement vers le comptoir .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: T'es qui ?
MADAME ESNAULT: Lucien !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et ce n'est qu'un coup de semonce .
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Ah ! Ah ! Laisse-le moi , hein !
MADAME ESNAULT: Partez , ou j'appelle les gendarmes !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Albert Hmm ?
LUCIEN ESNAULT: Et les calvas , qui c'est qui va les payer ? Albert et Gabriel se retournent vers lui .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: On mprise .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: J'ai peur que ta femme soit pas contente .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Parle pas de femmes en patrouille .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Albert Albert se retourne .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Qu'est-ce qu ' y a encore ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Blangy , c'est pas possible .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Chhhhut ! Il se rapproche de lui et parle plus bas .
ALBERT QUENTIN: La petite Marie ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et ben , on y va .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Albert ! Albert se retourne .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Je peux pas y aller comme a .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ta-la-la la-laaa
ALBERT QUENTIN: D'accord D'accord !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: C'est peut-tre que j'ai la langue charge . Retour sur Albert .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Albert !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Regarde !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ah ! . Ah ! Ah !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: H , Albert , h , me laisse pas ! Albert !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Oh ! Oh ! Gabriel se rtablit sur le sol .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ah ! Enfin ! Ah ben , dis donc !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ah , ben voil ! Albert se met  crier
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Arrte !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Ils envoient un plnipotentiaire .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ah ben , c'est pas trop tt .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Mission exceptionnelle !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Elle croit parler  ses niards ?
GEORGETTE: Le papa ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: C'est moi .
GEORGETTE: C'est nouveau , a !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Pas tellement , non .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Attention , les minutes tournent !
MADAME VICTORIA: I I do n't understand . What do you mean ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Gaspille pas tes dons . Madame est franaise .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Elle a dit  demain .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Mais c'est Fachoda ! Gabriel se lve .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Dis donc , si on envisageait un repli ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Mais pourquoi pas une retraite ?
GEORGETTE: Bien , monsieur Quentin , on transmettra .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Toujours . Quelle belle nuit , hein ? Gabriel s'arrte .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Landru !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Embrasse-moi , mec !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Albert
ALBERT QUENTIN: Quoi ? Gabriel soulve une caisse de fuses .
LANDRU: Rien !
L'OFFICIER ANGLAIS: Splendid !
LUCIEN ESNAULT: a vient de par l .
MADAME ESNAULT: Lucien ! Fais attention ! O vas-tu ?
LANDRU: Une verte maintenant , Quentin ! La fuse part .
LANDRU: A vos chandelles romaines !
ALBERT QUENTIN: A nos morts !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: A nos morts !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: La Puerta del Sol !
ALBERT QUENTIN: Et la fte continue !
LANDRU: Ils ont amen les guignols ! Contre champ sur la foule et les gendarmes .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Joli temps pour les artilleurs !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Aimable barbiflore , passez-moi les ptards ! Landru dsigne une caisse .
LANDRU: L , dans la caisse . C'est dans la boite . Gabriel se penche sur la caisse .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Puisque vous n'avez rien de mieux .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: On va tcher de faire avec . Il prend des fuses dans la caisse .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Qu'est-ce qu ' y a l-bas dedans ? Il dsigne quelque chose du doigt .
LANDRU: Attention ! a pte ! Il dsigne la foule .
LANDRU: Chacun pour soi . Moi , je vais me baigner .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Qu'est-ce qu'on fait ?
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Vous allez toujours  Blangy ? Albert sort du blockhaus .
MARIE FOUQUET: Papa ! Que je suis contente !
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Mais bien sr que te t'emmne .
MARIE FOUQUET: Dis donc , tu piques ! Albert se rapproche de Suzanne .
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ben oui , oh
MARIE FOUQUET: Au revoir , madame Quentin . Elle lui serre la main .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Au revoir , ma petite Marie .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Au revoir , madame , merci pour tout .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: Je t'attends mardi au train de six heures ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ben , bien sr .
SUZANNE QUENTIN: T'oubliera pas ton changement  Lisieux ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Tss-tss ! N'aie pas peur .
MARIE FOUQUET: C'est o que tu changes de train ?
ALBERT QUENTIN: Ben , a va pas tarder .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Au revoir .
GABRIEL FOUQUET: Je pense qu'il en a vu au moins un . ANNONCE
SALESWOMAN: This is Mr. Mathison . He 's a doctor .
DR. MATHISON: You okay ?
SALESWOMAN: An ambulance is on the way .
DR. MATHISON: Is there a name yet ? Beat . The woman smiles for the first time .
WOMAN: Elijah .
DR. MATHISON: What happened during the delivery ?
OLDER SALESWOMAN: Nothing . It was very quick . The baby just wanted to come ight out . There was no problems .
DR. MATHISON: Did you drop him ?
OLDER SALESWOMAN: Jesus Christ , no . The BABY SCREAMS .
DR. MATHISON: Please inform the ambulance we have a situation Dr. Mathison turns back to the mother . Beat .
DAVID: Someone left these . You want one ?
WOMAN: It 's my field . I represent athletes . I 'm an agent .
DAVID: What a coincidence ? I 'm a male synchronized swimme and I 'm looking fo epresentation . WOMAN Is that right ?
WOMAN: I 'm meeting a player from Temple University . He 's a cornerback . You like football ? Beat .
DAVID: Not really .
WOMAN: This kid is six foot two , two hundred and forty pounds . He runs the fifty in under six seconds . He 's going to be a God .
DAVID: I 'm David Dunne . The woman looks up .
WOMAN: Kelly . She goes back to the magazine . Beat .
DAVID: How long are you staying in Philly ?
KELLY: Sorry . DAVID What are you talking about ? An awkward silence .
DAVID: I think you got the wrong idea .
KELLY: I 'm going to find anothe seat .
MEGAN: You okay , Virginia ? Beat . VIRGINIA shakes her head , `` No . ''
DAVID: Okay . He FLASHES A LIGHT in David 's eyes .
JEREMY: I told you !
MEGAN: Not a lot .
JEREMY: Let 's go home .
DAVID: I do n't think I got the jo in New York .
MEGAN: What does that mean ?
DAVID: I 'm still going to New York . Just not this second .
MEGAN: I do n't want to drag this out too long for Jeremy .
DAVID: I know . Beat .
MEGAN: It stopped being our room a long time ago . You should go up and get some rest .
DAVID: Jeremy , why do n't you go sleep with your mom ? JEREMY I want to sleep here tonight .
MOTHER: We 'll play the water pistol game next . Elijah nods , `` Yes '' happily .
ELIJAH: I wo n't get hurt momma ! I 'm safe !
PRIEST: Sarah Elaston , social worke at Broad and Locust Community Center . We pray for your soul . Kevin Elliott , business man , father of six . We pray fo your soul . Glen Stevens , researcher in the area of Leukemia at Drexel University . We pray for your soul .
DAVID: I used to play football in college . In my first year as quarterback , we went on this winning streak . It just went on and on . It did n't matte who we played I 'd always win . You get superstitious when something like that happens . You give things meaning . Like you wear the same colo socks each game or you listen to the same B.B . King song before you leave the apartment . I would n't even untie the shoelaces on my cleats . I 'd just slip them on and off so nothing would change I gave things meaning that had no meaning . I 'm here to make sure I 'm not making shoelaces into something they 're not again . I was the only person to survive that accident . The only one It feels like it means something . Beat .
PRIEST: Are you a religious man , David ? David nods , `` No . ''
DAVID: Okay . Beat . The priest turns to David .
PRIEST: It was luck . Beat .
DAVID: What do you mean ?
PRIEST: Luck Random Without meaning . David just sits awkwardly .
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Yes ?
DAVID: Is Noel in ?
ANCIENT SECRETARY: No sir he is not . I read about you in the paper .
DAVID: Oh .
ANCIENT SECRETARY: I was in an accident once too . A horse almost trampled me to death .
DAVID: Wow .
ANCIENT SECRETARY: I had to put him down . Beat .
DAVID: That 's a sad story . Do you think you could ask Noel something for me ?
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Proceed .
DAVID: Ask if he can check how many sick days I 've taken since I 've worked here ? Beat .
ANCIENT SECRETARY: Is that the entire message ?
DAVID: Yes .
FATHER: Yeah Jerry why do n't you think about the fat ass turtles Like your fat ass son on the field jeopardizing the rest of ou chances at a fucking championship .
DAVID: Hey Noel . Beat . He just stares .
NOEL: Forty dollars . David turns on the bench .
DAVID: What ?
NOEL: You 're getting a forty dollar raise per week that 's it . Silence .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: No more sitting in this oom . I 've let it go on long enough .
ELIJAH: I 'm not going out anymore . I 'm not getting hurt again . This was the last time . I told you .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: You ca n't do anything about that . You might fall between that chair and this television . If that 's what God has planned for you , that 's what 's going to happen . You ca n't hide from it in your room .
ELIJAH: They call me Mr. Glass at school . Cause I break like glass . Elijah 's face is tense . Unyielding . Beat .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: You make this decision now to be afraid And you 'll never turn back your whole life . You 'll always be afraid .
ELIJAH: Why ?
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Forget why . Do you want it or not ? Elijah thinks it over . He nods , `` Yes . ''
ELIJAH: Where is it ?
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: On a bench , across the street . Elijah looks at his mother with disbelief .
ELIJAH: Someone 's gon na take it . Beat .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Then you better get out there soon .
MAN: This is from Fritz Champion 's own library . This is before the first issue of the comic book hit the stands in 1968 .
ELIJAH: It 's a classic depiction of good versus evil . Notice the square jaw of Slayer - common in most comic book heroes . And the slightly disproportionate size of Jaguaro 's body to his head . This again is common , but only in villains The thing to notice about this piece The thing that makes it very , very special is its realistic depiction of its figures . When the characters eventually made it into the magazine they were exaggerated as always happens . This is vintage .
BUSINESS MAN: Wrap it up .
ELIJAH: You 've made a considerably wise decision .
BUSINESS MAN: My kid 's gon na go berserk .
ELIJAH: Once again please ?
BUSINESS MAN: My son Jeb . It 's a gift fo him .
ELIJAH: How old is Jeb ?
BUSINESS MAN: Four .
ELIJAH: No .
BUSINESS MAN: What did I say ?
ELIJAH: Do you see any Telletubbies around here ? Do you see a slender plastic tag clipped to my shirt with my name printed on it ? Do you see a little Asian child with a blank expression sitting outside in a mechanical helicopter that shakes when you put a quarter in it ? No ? Well that 's what you see at a toy store ? Any you must think this is a toy store , cause you 're in here shopping for an infant named Jeb . One of us has made a gross error and wasted the other person 's valuable time Elijah 's eyes pierce through the shaken man .
BUSINESS MAN: What if I kept it ? Beat .
ELIJAH: I 'm listening .
BUSINESS MAN: I 'll keep it in my office oom .
ELIJAH: What about Jeb ?
BUSINESS MAN: I have a lock on the door . Elijah just stares .
ELIJAH: Will it be near a window ?
BUSINESSMAN: No direct sunlight will fall on it . Elijah eyes the man for many seconds . Beat .
ELIJAH: Come back in three days . I 'll think about it .
MAN: I received a card from you store .
ELIJAH: Congratulations , you have a mailbox The sale is n't for two weeks .
MAN: This one was under the windshield of my car .
ELIJAH: You 've never been sick ?
DAVID: I do n't know for sure . I do n't think so .
ELIJAH: Well if this ai n't a riddle worthy of the Riddler ?
DAVID: Seventy-five percent .
ELIJAH: Seventy-five percent ? That 's not nearly good enough fo me . I 'm extremely skeptical .
DAVID: Skeptical about what ?
ELIJAH: Your answer to my question . It 's one thing to have neve een injured in your life , ut to state that you 've never taken ill , well that 's a whole new level .
JEREMY: Dad 's been injured . Beat .
ELIJAH: What 's he talking about ?
DAVID: In college . A car accident .
ELIJAH: Was it serious ? David nods .
JEREMY: He could n't play football anymore . Beat . Elijah looks shaken .
ELIJAH: I assumed because of the train .
DAVID: You assumed wrong .
ELIJAH: It 's over . You can go now .
DAVID: I think you skipped a couple steps . Elijah turns .
ELIJAH: The life of an idea that has lived too long in my head . David stares at Elijah impatiently .
DAVID: What was your idea Elijah ? Beat . ELIJAH If there is someone like me in the world , and I 'm at one end of the spectrum Could n't there be someone the opposite of me , at the other end ? A person who ca n't be hurt like the rest of us . A kind of person they were talking about in those stories . Elijah points at the framed comic sketches . ELIJAH A person they believed was put here to protect the rest of us . Guard us .
JEREMY: You thought my dad was a eal-
DAVID: Jeremy do n't take anothe sip of that drink .
ELIJAH: Technically no . I gambled that you would attend the church service . I just waited for you . David glares at Elijah .
DAVID: What 's this about ? This is obviously some scam . Is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an investment ?
ELIJAH: You 've misunderstood .
DAVID: I see guys like you all the time in my work . You find someone you think is emotionally vulnerable and you tell them a fantastic story , utterly convincing and somewhere in there , you slip it in ' I just need your credit card number ' , ' I just need a small down payment . '
ELIJAH: What type of job do you have David ?
DAVID: I work at the stadium as a security guard .
WALKIE: Dunne , it 's Jenkins , we got a guy at gate 17C with a ogus ticket . Says he knows you . He wo n't tell me his name . DAVID What 's he look like ?
ELIJAH: They said I could n't get in with my ticket .
DAVID: It 's for last week 's game .
ELIJAH: I 've come to understand that An ill advised purchase in the parking lot . David hands Elijah back the ticket .
DAVID: What do you want ?
ELIJAH: Not money . But I appreciate you healthy cynicism in the manner . It will be wise fo oth of us to proceed with greatest caution .
DAVID: We 're not proceeding anywhere together .
ELIJAH: We 've already begun . David looks around .
DAVID: One more time . What is it you want ? Beat .
ELIJAH: Why is it , do you think , that of all the professions in the world you chose protection ?
DAVID: Are you for real ?
ELIJAH: You could have poured coffee in Starbucks , you could have learned to install track lighting in office uildings , you could have told people their horoscopes on the internet You could have been one of ten thousand things but in the end , you chose to protect people . You made that decision and I find that very , very interesting . Now all I need is you credit card number . Beat . Elijah smiles .
DAVID: I got this job because my college coach called the guy who manages the stadium . There 's no hidden meaning to it . David 's walkie makes NOIES on his hip .
ELIJAH: Is there a problem ?
DAVID: That guy in green . Sometimes people carry weapons in here . Then they drink too much . They 're team is n't doing so well , bad things happen We do random pat downs of the crowd to discourage people from carrying . If he 's carrying , he 'll step out of line .
ELIJAH: How did you know that man you bumped was carrying a weapon ?
DAVID: Probably the army jacket . Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show .
ELIJAH: You thought he was carrying a knife ? Beat .
DAVID: I thought he was carrying something .
ELIJAH: But not a knife ?
DAVID: I got this picture of a silver handled gun tucked in his pants . Like on t.v .
ELIJAH: You have good instincts when it comes to things like that ?
DAVID: Like what ?
ELIJAH: Telling when people have done something wrong ? Beat .
DAVID: Yes .
ELIJAH: Have you ever tried to develop it ?
DAVID: I do n't know what you 're asking ?
ELIJAH: You 're skill . Beat .
DAVID: Listen . I got to be on the sidelines during the game You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at-
ELIJAH: Characters in comic books are often attributed special powers . X-ray vision , things of that sort . David exhales slowly as he stares at Elijah .
DAVID: Okay , I do n't want to play this game anymore .
ELIJAH: It 's an exaggeration of the truth . Maybe it 's based on something as simple as instinct . Like being able to touch someone and tell whether they 've done something wrong Or the level of what they 've done wrong .
DAVID: The guy might not have been carrying anything .
ELIJAH: Or he might have been carrying a silver handled gun tucked in his pants . David 's WALKIE ERUPTS WITH NOISE .
DAVID: I have to go now .
ELIJAH: One last question . Beat .
DAVID: Quick .
ELIJAH: The car accident you were in Was there anyone else involved ? The two men stand very still in the tunnel .
DAVID: Yes . My wife Megan . She was in the car with me .
JEREMY: Was it sold out ? David nods , `` No . ''
DAVID: You know how mad your mom would be if she knew you were playing football ? Jeremy nods .
JEREMY: Are you going to tell ? David nods , `` No . ''
DAVID: In under six seconds . I 've heard .
JEREMY: Just play one set of downs . I told them you were great .
DAVID: Why 'd you do that ?
JEREMY: Just one-
DAVID: Jeremy . I 'm going in . I have to do some things .
JEREMY: What things ?
DAVID: I 'm going to work out .
JEREMY: I 'll help you .
DAVID: There 's nothing to do . Jeremy turns back to the children and waves . JEREMY I ca n't play ! I 'm working out with my dad !
JEREMY: You think you could beat up Mike Tyson ? I mean before he started wiggin out and eating people 's ears ?
DAVID: No .
JEREMY: What if you worked out everyday for six months ? You think you could beat him then ?
DAVID: No .
JEREMY: What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday fo a year ?
DAVID: No .
JEREMY: How much can you lift ? David looks back at the weights .
DAVID: That 's the most I 've eve lifted . That could have been dangerous Jeremy . Why do n't you go upstairs and let me finish up ? Jeremy starts back to the barbell .
JEREMY: I 'll take it off . I 'll help you right . He slips off the safety collar .
DAVID: No .
JEREMY: I mean if you knew karate ?
DAVID: No Jeremy .
JEREMY: What if he was n't aloud to kick and you were really mad at him ?
DAVID: No .
JEREMY: I lied . Beat .
DAVID: You added ? Jeremy nods , `` Yes '' slowly .
JEREMY: More ? Beat . David nods , `` Yes . ''
DAVID: You should never try anything like this . You know that right ? Jeremy nods , `` Yes . ''
MEGAN: Not often , but it is possible . Most people get scared when they see the shadow of their limits . They do n't know how long the shadow really is . They do n't know how far away the real limits are standing They stop out of fear .
DAVID: What do I do when I 'm around someone I know ?
MEGAN: You use your sleeve . They both smile at each other . Beat . WOMAN Megan ?
WOMAN: I thought it was you .
MEGAN: Hi . This is Claire . Her son is in Jeremy 's class . Claire and I worked on the school food drive together .
DAVID: Hello .
CLAIRE: I 'm very happy about this . Megan mentioned to me she was considering dating again . Megan becomes still . CLAIRE I 'm sorry , what 's your name ? Beat . David does n't look up .
DAVID: David .
CLAIRE: David ?
MEGAN: This is my husband .
DAVID: Okay .
ELIJAH: They call me Mr. Glass . Beat . PHYSICIAN Who does ?
JANIS: Your ten o'clock is here . The hospital discharged him this morning .
MEGAN: Thanks .
ELIJAH: How long have you been married ?
MEGAN: Twelve years .
ELIJAH: How did you get together ?
MEGAN: A car accident . Elijah smiles even bigger .
ELIJAH: Now you 're going to have to tell me more .
MEGAN: See my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together . Our car flipped on an icy road . We were both injured . He could n't play football anymore . If that had n't happened , we would n't have been together .
ELIJAH: How so ?
MEGAN: Football was n't the kind of life I wanted For ten years I 'd be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game . And if it was n't that call , it would e a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion . I 've seen way too much of it in my job I can barely take it when my clients are in pain . I do n't hate the game . I admire the amount of skill it involved and , like everyone else , I was in awe of how he could play it , but I could n't give him my heart and then have something happen to him . And it always does with that game . It 's not a thing many people would understand .
ELIJAH: You and my mother would have a special connection .
MEGAN: Any way , fate stepped in and took football out of the equation .
ELIJAH: And everyone lived happily ever after . Beat .
MEGAN: Sort of . Beat .
ELIJAH: What part of David 's body was injured ? Beat . Megan 's eyes become utterly still .
MEGAN: Who said my husband 's name is David ?
STOCKY WOMAN: Choose .
ELIJAH: There have been three majo disasters in this city ove the last four years . I 've followed each one of them A Seven-three-seven crashes on take off . One hundred and seventy-two die . No survivors A hotel fire downtown . Two hundred and eleven die . No survivors And am Amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city . One hundred and thirty one die . One survivor . He is unharmed . I 've spoken with you husband about his survival . I suggested a rathe unbelievable explanation . Since then , I 've come to elieve , that my explanation , howeve unbelievable , is in fact , true .
MEGAN: And what was that explanation ? Beat .
ELIJAH: It 's a mediocre time Mrs. Dunne . People are starting to lose hope . It 's hard fo many to believe that extraordinary things live inside themselves as well as others I hope you can keep an open mind ? Beat . MEGAN Is this a religious thing ?
DAVID: We 've had some problems with drug selling in this stadium . Would you mind if I checked the pockets of you sweatshirt ?
THERMOMETER BOY: Is that your dad ? Jeremy nods `` Yes . ''
JEREMY: I do n't think so .
NURSE: No , he insisted we only call you . Though it took us a while to track down your number . It 's not on file here .
DAVID: Megan handles that type of stuff .
NURSE: What stuff is that ?
DAVID: Jeremy 's stuff .
NURSE: It 's more emotional damage . It was n't very serious physically . David nods .
DAVID: What was that ?
NURSE: My office was on the othe side of the building back then . You do n't remember me do you ? David nods , `` no . ''
DAVID: Yes I am .
JEREMY: Why do you keep saying that ?
MEGAN: He 's just laying in bed . He 's pretty upset . He wo n't talk .
DAVID: He 's dealing with a lot of things . I think he needs to find answers himself . Beat .
MEGAN: It 's weird to hear you tell me about Jeremy . A good weird .
DAVID: Would you like to try going-
MEGAN: Yes .
DAVID: -out again . Beat . David smiles .
MEGAN: Oh . Elijah Price came to visit me at the cente today .
DAVID: Jesus . Megan sees David 's shocked expression .
MEGAN: He did n't do anything . He just told me his theory It 's sad when patients get like that . They loose eality . DAVID Jeremy what the hell are you doing ?
DAVID: -Jeremy did you load that gun ? Jeremy nods , `` Yes . '' Crying harder now . JEREMY -You wo n't get hurt
MEGAN: -Sometimes when people are sick or hurt for a long time , like Elijah , they 're mind gets hurt too . David shoots a tense glance at Megan .
DAVID: -You know the story about the kid who almost drowned in the pool ? Jeremy stops moving .
MEGAN: -Jeremy , your father was injured in college - you know that . You know all about that .
DAVID: -Jeremy listen to what-
JEREMY: -Do n't be scared .
DAVID: -Jeremy if you pull that trigger I 'm going to leave ! I 'm going to go to New York .
ELIJAH: Joined a rugby league . Turned out to be a bad idea . Come here I want to show you something .
DAVID: Stop messing with my life Elijah . My son almost shot me last night . He wanted to prove you were right .
ELIJAH: I never said you could n't be killed . I never said that .
DAVID: You have a problem , Elijah . My wife is right . Somewhere along the line one of you ones broke and your mind just broke with it . Beat .
ELIJAH: Are you finished ?
DAVID: No . And I have been sick . I spent a week in a hospital when I was a boy recovering from pneumonia and almost drowning .
MEGAN: The sitter 's here .
DAVID: But I put cologne on . Megan smiles .
MEGAN: Is that what that smell is ? Jeremy giggles .
PONYTAIL MAN: Hey man it 's twenty after . It 's time to close . I got ta head . The top of the man 's head does n't move . Beat .
ELIJAH: How much is this one ?
DAVID: I think rust .
MEGAN: Rust ?
DAVID: As a color , not as rust . You know , a rust colored paint or wood ? Megan leans slightly closer .
MEGAN: I did n't know that . Mine 's still brown .
DAVID: My turn . What 's you favorite song ?
MEGAN: Soft and Wet , by the Artist Formerly Known as Prince .
DAVID: What was that ?
MEGAN: We 're supposed to be honest . Beat . David brings his stool closer .
DAVID: Soft and Wet . That 's very interesting .
MEGAN: My turn . When was the first time the thought popped into you head that we might not make it ? David 's grin slowly fades .
DAVID: That 's not the game .
MEGAN: It 's a second date . There are n't any rules . Beat . David sips his drink slowly .
DAVID: I 'm not sure .
MEGAN: Think carefully ?
DAVID: What about the game ?
MEGAN: It 's finished . I won .
DAVID: I had a nightmare one night and I did n't wake you up so you could tell me it was okay . I think that was the first time . Does that count ? MEGAN That counts .
MEGAN: Do you knowingly keep Jeremy and me at a distance ? Beat .
DAVID: Yes .
MEGAN: Why ?
DAVID: I do n't know Megan .
MEGAN: It 's like you resent us David . Resent the life you have . Beat . David does n't answer .
DAVID: Who called through ? Megan tries to hide her smile .
MEGAN: We 're not moving .
ELIJAH: The point of all this is , we now know something we did n't You have a weakness Water . It 's you krpytonite . You hearing me David ? Call me back I got rugby practice in an hour .
MACHINE: Message erased .
DAVID: Megan
DRIVER: Is she all right ?
DAVID: I think her leg is fractured .
DRIVER: Are you injured ?
ELIJAH: Hello .
DAVID'S VOICE: Elijah ? Beat .
ELIJAH: David ?
DAVID'S VOICE: What am I supposed to do ?
TEENAGER: What 's your name ? I think you drank too much .
DAVID: You need to leave now .
WOMAN: See the villain 's eyes . They 're larger than the other characters ' . They insinuate a slightly skewed perspective of how they see the world . Just off normal . David stares at the drawing .
DAVID: He does n't look very threatening .
WOMAN: That 's what I said to my son . He said , there 's always two kinds . The soldie villain who fights the hero with his hands , and then there 's the real threat . The illiant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind .
DAVID: Are you Elijah 's mother ?
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I am . I 'm helping him with the sale .
DAVID: It 's a pleasure to meet you . I 'm David Dunne .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: He 's spoken of you . He says you 're becoming friends .
DAVID: We are .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: I 'm very proud of him . He 's been through a lot in his life . A lot of ups and downs , a lot of bad spells . A couple I 'd thought had oken him I mean emotionally . They were bad But he made it . Yes he did .
DAVID: He 's kind of a miracle .
ELIJAH'S MOTHER: Yes he is . They both watch Elijah from across the room .
ELIJAH: Did you see this ?
MAN: What 's going on ?
ELIJAH: A plane just crashed .
ELDERLY MAN: I 've worked here twenty-five years . I know all its secrets .
ELIJAH: Secrets ? ELDERLY MAN Like if there was ever a fire on floors one , two , o three Everyone in this hotel would be burned alive .
ENGINEER: Passengers are n't allowed in there .
PRICE: 'Morning , Jimmy , think you could squeeze me in ?
JIMMY: Where is you would care to go at once , Mr. Price ?
PRICE: Bang-bang .
JIMMY: Twenty dollar . Price hands him a wad of bills .
PRICE: You 're a thief , Jimmy .
JIMMY: Booteeful picture , huh , snap-snap ?
PRICE: I do n't do skies .
OATES: G'damn , Price , you tuna sucking piece of raw meat whatchyou goin ' to Zambeze for ?
PRICE: Thought I 'd get some great shots of your head gettin ' blown to smithereens .
OATES: Smithereens ? ! Be a great fuckin ' picture , eh ?
PRICE: Be a prize winner .
OATES: Ya think so ? Trade ya some greenies for a joint . I got ta have a joint .
PRICE: I 'm on the wagon , man , sorry .
OATES: Ahh . Dope-wise , this place sucks . Lotta fuckin ' coons around here , eh ? They nod . He laughs obscenely and deeply .
PRICE: I thought you were fighting for the Government ?
OATES: I am . This is the Government .
PRICE: These are the Rebels .
OATES: Fuck they are . This is a Government convoy to Calunda .
PRICE: This is the Abou-Deian Revolutionary Front . Pause .
OATES: You 're shitting me .
PRICE: Hold it ! Hold it !
OATES: Well , I guess we know where the Guvmint is .
PRICE: You can walk to work from here .
OATES: Convenient , ai n't it ?
PRICE: I do n't know your brother .
OATES: Great shit , eh ?
PRICE: C.I.A . ?
OATES: Smartest guys in the world . Hey , you got ta scoop here , eh ? You 'll e famous .
PRICE: Maybe .
OATES: I got ta run have a good one .
PRICE: I love Africa .
CLAIRE: `` and so this strange war that features two provincial governments , three rival liberation fronts , and at least twenty-five tribal associations , grinds into its seventh year ''
ALEX: It 's my party we 'll be late . You called it a `` strange war '' and an `` endless story . '' If you filed that story for me , I 'd say you were editorialishing .
CLAIRE: I like to editorialize . You drunk ?
ALEX: Drunk ? Only with the memories of making love with you on the plains of Fianga as the first Army of Liberation marched in and opened fire .
CLAIRE: And freed the Proletariat . Alex raises a drink .
ALEX: Right .
CLAIRE: I 'm going to the party without you .
ALEX: Christ , I do n't want to go to this stupid party . I 'm bad at false modesty .
CLAIRE: You 're great at it .
ALEX: You can work out of the East Coast . We 'll get a place on Long Island and urn our suitcases .
CLAIRE: I still like suitcases .
ALEX: Every Saturday night we 'll have a party invite all our friends , sit out on the veranda and interview each other .
CLAIRE: I 've done all that .
ALEX: I have n't . Well , God dammit , I 'm getting tired of memorizing who 's the president of the Republic of Maldives .
CLAIRE: Mamoon Abdul Gayoom .
ALEX: Yeah , he succeeded Mamoon Abdul Gayeem .
CLAIRE: I already have .
ALEX: Fuck Abou Deia and New York . I 'm going to Nicaragua with you .
CLAIRE: No .
ALEX: I 've heard it 's a neat little wa with a nice hotel .
PRICE: Alex , get up here !
ALEX: You may be asking yourself what exactly are you doing here in this `` strange war , just another chapte in an endless story that grinds into its seventh year ''
PRICE: Oh . I did n't know you were here .
CLAIRE: Sure you did . You were taking pictures of me all over the room .
PRICE: Well yeah you looked great . Why are n't you partying ?
CLAIRE: In a minute . He notices the picture she 's looking at .
PRICE: I printed that up for Alex .
CLAIRE: It would n't be the greatest thing you could give him right now We just split up .
PRICE: Jesus , I 'm sorry . Who left who this time ?
CLAIRE: I 'm the villain I thought it could e a little cleaner this time me in Central America , him in New York .
PRICE: That 's pretty clean .
CLAIRE: But he 's decided to go to Nicaragua too .
PRICE: To cover you or the war ?
CLAIRE: To cover everything .
PRICE: I do n't want to wait for you again . We 've been circling each other since the Montreal Olympics .
CLAIRE: You 're a genius of bad timing . I 'm going back to the party .
PRICE: Thanks .
CLAIRE: I 've heard the light in Nicaragua 's even better .
PRICE: Wait here . He runs to join the procession .
TEENAGE BOYS: Rafael , Rafael , Rafael libre o muerte Rafael
ALEX: Welcome to Managua .
PRICE: You have something to do with this ?
ALEX: Well I thought of calling you photographs `` Pictures from a Lost War '' I 'm great at captions the New York editors loved it since none of them knew where the hell Chad was anyway it legitimized thei ignorance , got you a cover , me a feature , and packaged a class struggle in two words . Nifty , eh ?
PRICE: Nifty .
ALEX: I 'm sorry this is Isela Cruz . She works for the hotel and helps out as a translator .
ISELA: My pleasure .
PRICE: Looks like you guys have a lot of ang-bang down here , eh ? Little misunderstanding between the poets and the government ?
ISELA: `` Misunderstanding ? ! '' `` Down here '' it 's called a war . It started in nineteen thirty . Before you were orn .
ALEX: My Spanish is a little out of shape what 'd he say ?
ISELA: He said he considers it an honor to e able to photograph our war .
ALEX: Russell 's got a way with words .
ISELA: I can tell .
PRICE: You 're a helluva translator .
ISELA: I know . I 'm much in demand around here . Will you excuse me ? If you have any questions , just ask .
PRICE: Who is Rafael ?
ALEX: It depends who you ask . Alex turns to Isela , who stops as she rises .
ISELA: Rafael ? Comandante Rafael . He is either a Marxist dupe of Russia and Cuba or the most popular leader of a most popular democratic revolution . Take your pick .
PRICE: I do n't really give a damn but the guy 's got a great face .
ISELA: You 'd never find him .
PRICE: Wanta lay odds ?
ISELA: You would lose . You must excuse me .
PRICE: Just one more thing is Rafael owned by the C.I.A . or the K.G.B. ? I 'll figure out the rest .
ISELA: Mr. Price the world is not divided into East and West anymore . It is divided into North and South . By the time you people figure that out it will be too late . Congratulations on your cover .
PRICE: So far this war 's got it all ove Africa .
ALEX: You 're gon na have a ball .
PRICE: You still hanging in there with Claire ?
ALEX: I 'm hanging in there like an interim post-war government waiting for the palace to be overrun by younge men .
PRICE: Younger men . Alex smiles disarmingly .
CLAIRE: Hi , Alex Russell ! When did you get in ?
PRICE: Just now .
CLAIRE: You 're not going to believe this I just beat you guys and everybody else here to a story exclusive eat your heart out .
PRICE: What 'd ya get ?
CLAIRE: I 've just been promised a private interview with Tacho .
ALEX: Congratulations . The bastard wo n't talk to me .
PRICE: Who 's Tacho ?
CLAIRE: That 's President Somoza 's nickname .
PRICE: I do n't know who the players are yet .
ALEX: Want me to order you a hot dog and a program ?
CLAIRE: Fellas ! No fighting after six at night , all right ? Curfew . C'mon , we 've all got something to celebrate .
BOY PHOTOGRAPHER: Sometimes it does n't work . The three journalists relax their pose .
PRICE: Let me look .
DAISY: Ladeez and Gen'mun , hep me get Aaleex ov ' here
ALEX: There 's not many piano bars left where I 'm still welcome .
CLAIRE: Go ahead .
ALEX: If she ca n't sing in the key of C I 'm in trouble .
PRICE: Well
CLAIRE: `` Well '' you finished your assignment in Chad ?
PRICE: Got Africa all wrapped up and pouched to my editor .
CLAIRE: You 're going to love this war , Russell there 's good guys , bad guys , cheap shrimp And Alex is still singing in the ackground . I missed you .
PRICE: We got ta get alone somewhere to talk .
ALEX: Sometimes I wonder why I spend these lonely nights , Dreaming of a song
CLAIRE: Jesus he 's doing it on purpose .
PRICE: Alex is one of the world 's leading experts on military strategy .
CLAIRE: Well about sixty years ago the U.S. Marines invaded to protect American business interests and put down a peasant revolt led by a little man who wore a giant cowboy hat his name was Augusto Sandino In nineteen thirty-four he was murdered at a peace conference , and the Somoza family has ruled ever since
PRICE: No , no , no I do n't mean the stuff about the peasants I mean the eal stuff .
CLAIRE: The `` real '' stuff ? you mean a history of class struggle in agrarian societies ?
PRICE: No , c'mon !
CLAIRE: Oh . Okay well Just a couple things . One there 's only two kinds of eer available Tona and Victoria . Victoria 's better . And two if you see Miss Panama hanging around the hotel bar hot , hot , hot but do n't touch . She elongs to Tacho , and if anybody gets caught with her then El Presidente has promised to personally cut off the guy 's
PRICE: Pecker ?
CLAIRE: Yeah and throw it into Lake Managua .
PRICE: Jesus .
CLAIRE: And the lake 's already polluted .
PRICE: Is there anybody here we do n't know ?
CLAIRE: No .
REGIS: G'damn , Price kudos on the African snaps . Jeez , Claire , I have n't seen you since
CLAIRE: Three Mile Island .
REGIS: Yeah shit Holiday Inn , right ?
CLAIRE: Jesus Louis Jordan walks in , and I 'm sitting with the Everly Brothers .
REGIS: Before you fall in love that 's Marcel Jazy friend of wine , women , and Somoza . They say he 's a usinessman
CLAIRE: He 's a businessman in search of a usiness he does n't try very hard to cover up his connections to the
PRICE: What 's wrong with the Everly Brothers ?
WAITER: Please stay at your table , and you wo n't be hurt .
GUERRILLA LEADER: We do not want to waste any ammunition on a head as empty as yours but we will .
BUSINESSMAN: What is this ? !
GUERRILLA LEADER: Shut up ! Get up !
TIME STRINGER: it 's Charlie , from New York says that a terrorist bombing of a Central American restaurant is n't ig enough to hold for the world section
ALEX: Tell him we have pictures .
YOUNG JOURNALIST: He knows .
ALEX: Tell him there were pieces of body in the piano , and somebody was singing , `` I Left My Heart in San Francisco . '' What 's he got better than that ?
TIME STRINGER: He 's got the Pope visiting Egypt .
ALEX: Forget the Pope , Charlie . Every week you got the Pope somewhere . This is a very big story down here because it 's the first sign of fighting in Managua . Yeah , well get a map and look up Nicaragua ya drive to New Orleans and turn left .
HUB: Hey ! There 's fascists and then there 's fascists , right ? Be careful how you throw words like that around .
ALEX: We do n't have any pictures of Rafael ecause nobody knows where the son of a bitch is , and anybody crazy enough to go after him
HUB: Hub Kittle . I 'm with Lewitsky and Knupp New York . We have a client down here . Alex is irritated but fascinated .
ALEX: Who ?
HUB: President Somoza .
CLAIRE: I want you to get me copies of the Government inventory lists of all captured Guerrilla weapons . I want to know if the guns are Israeli , Belgian , Russian , Cuban
YOUNG WOMAN: The Guerrillas are not supplied by anybody from the outside .
CLAIRE: Fine give me proof .
OPERATOR: Su hija , su hija ! Your daughter from Los Angeles .
CLAIRE: Hi , baby ! How are you ? Has Grandmother spoiled you silly by now ? She has ? Good . Yes , I got your letter with the picture of your new boyfriend . He 's very good looking but he 's a bit old , is n't he ? No ? Just how old is he ?
PRICE: Cuanto ?
OLD WOMAN: Quince .
PRICE: Veinte .
OLD WOMAN: Diezysiete .
PRICE: What is this ? I 'm a journalist !
GUARD: Padre Puta , Padre Puta , Padre Puta Here is a Priest for you to confess your sins .
PRISONER PRIEST: Cigarillo ?
PRICE: Priest ? What are you doing here ?
PRISONER PRIEST: The government accused me of using the church to hide Rebels and guns .
PRICE: Governments are always wrong , eh ?
PRISONER PRIEST: This time they 're right . Who are you ?
PRICE: Un periodista .
PRISONER PRIEST: Whose side are you on ?
PRICE: I do n't take sides . I take pictures .
PRISONER PRIEST: No sides ?
PRICE: No .
PRISONER PRIEST: Periodista Puta , todos periodistas son putas .
PRICE: Mi amigo mala interpretacion , eh ? Periodista , comprende ? Famoso . Time magazine .
SOLDIER: Shut up !
PRICE: Soy un periodista .
CLAIRE: You throw a journalist in jail it gets in the papers . You walk all over the same press credentials you pass out . I demand to speak to someone in authority or I 'll go to Tacho myself I do n't understand you you 're big and strong and handsome ut you 're not so smart ! You should be trying to seduce us !
OFFICER: Senora
PRICE: Claire !
CLAIRE: You 're okay ?
PRICE: I 'm fine what 're you doing here ? These guys are goons .
CLAIRE: They love being beaten up by a woman I 've been looking for you all night why 'd they lock you up ? They walk away together .
PRICE: I do n't know . Taking pictures . The usual . Jazy got me released .
CLAIRE: Jazy ? ! You think there 's a story there ?
PRICE: Ahh C.I.A . stories are all alike . I wanta find Rafael .
CLAIRE: You need help ?
PRICE: No . You ?
CLAIRE: No . When should we start .
PRICE: I figure you probably want to do a little research on the history of Marcel Jazy 's business connections in the third world countries with C.I.A . influence
CLAIRE: Oh . I assumed you 'd just look him in the eye and say `` Gim me a break , fo crissakes , Marcel , are you a spy o are n't you ? ''
PRICE: are you a spy or are n't you , eh ?
JAZY: Spy is such an odd word , Mr. Price nobody is a 'spy ' anymore .
CLAIRE: Russell prefers pictures to words
JAZY: You do n't have to apologize you 're journalists .
CLAIRE: And you 're a businessman ?
JAZY: A businessman ? That sounds good . Okay , I 'm a businessman .
PRICE: Why was I arrested , and why did you get me released , and who are you ?
JAZY: No agua .
CLAIRE: These are not the normal duties of a usinessman . He looks at them directly .
JAZY: But they are the normal duties of a spy , eh ? You win , I 'm a spy . There , are you happy ? I feel better . He refills their glasses .
CLAIRE: Because he thinks she 's seeing anothe man ? Jazy smiles slightly before confirming .
JAZY: and he assigned me to find out who the man is .
PRICE: There 's a rumor about this picture . Some people say you 're a genius that you invented this scheme .
JAZY: It was lots of people 's idea Have you been to Leon ?
CLAIRE: We 're going to Masaya they say the Rebels have hit the cuartel .
PRICE: It 's supposed to be nasty there a lotta people think Rafael 's in the South . I want to find out .
JAZY: No , no , it 's not `` nasty '' yet . Anothe week maybe . You would love Leon . A nice cathedral and beautiful light et un peu de ang-bang .
CLAIRE: We 're not doing a travelogue , you understand .
JAZY: Of course , of course only I have heard that Comandante Rafael has ecently had his unit in the area .
PRICE: Rafael is near Leon ?
JAZY: Well it 's a rumor , what do I know ? The voice of Miss Panama .
MISS PANAMA: Estoy desemperado !
JAZY: She 's lonely !
CLAIRE: Do n't let us stand in the way .
JAZY: It 's my job . You think I talk too much ?
CLAIRE: Did you dream about Miss Panama last night ?
PRICE: I dreamed about you .
CLAIRE: Have a good time ?
PRICE: Yeah so 'd you . She reaches out and touches his band-aid .
CLAIRE: And old war injury flaring up ?
PRICE: Is the tape on ?
CLAIRE: Of course .
PRICE: I was on the deck of the U.S.S . Pueblo catching some rays when the North Koreans attacked took a bullet ight in the chest , but by luck I had an extra roll of high speed ektachrome in this pocket right here over the heart
CLAIRE: And the bullet ricocheted off the film , grazed your cheek , and saved your life .
PRICE: You heard about it ? ! I was lucky .
CLAIRE: Did anyone ever die next to you in combat ?
PRICE: Yeah .
CLAIRE: What did you do ?
PRICE: F.8 at a sixtieth .
CLAIRE: That 's an old joke . My question was serious .
PRICE: So was I . You ever dream about me ?
CLAIRE: Once .
PRICE: How was I ?
CLAIRE: Fast .
PRICE: Me too .
CLAIRE: I thought it was quiet here .
SOLDIER: Quiet ? Are you sure you want to go down there ? Not me .
PRICE: You thinking of scoring a Toyota ?
CLAIRE: No problem we leave the car .
PRICE: C'mon . Be careful .
CLAIRE: Be careful ? ! Where the fuck we going ? Better light ?
SANDINISTA #1: You must come and help us one more time .
PEDRO: No , please
SANDINISTA #2: For Leon for Nicaragua !
PEDRO: Americans ? Journalists ?
SANDINISTA #1: Pedro ! There is no time to waste .
PEDRO: When you get back to the United States , I want you to give this ball to Tippy Martinez for me . He is from Nicaragua .
SANDINISTA #1: Enrique is dead ! Roberto has disappeared ! The Guardia has the church , and we need you !
PEDRO: You come , eh ? Can they come with us ?
SANDINISTA #2: Come ! Everybody come !
PRIEST: No , please it 's not safe . You must come with me .
VOICE: Price . You motherfucker , Price , I 'm talking to you . He turns . One of the bodies speaks .
PRICE: They 're away .
OATES: What the fuck are you doing here ?
PRICE: What the fuck are you doing here ?
OATES: Awright , awright you 're lookin ' good how ya like Nicaragua ?
PRICE: It 's beautiful .
OATES: Shitload o ' greasers though , eh ?
SANDINISTA #1: It 's getting late come on .
CLAIRE: You 're okay ?
SANDINISTA #1: San-dee Koufax , no ?
SANDINISTA #2: Si , Koufax .
SANDINISTA #3: Es mejor que Koufax , eh ? !
CLAIRE: Much better than Koufax .
PEDRO: Koufax is okay but Tippy Martinez , he is the best he pitches for the Baltimore Orioles , and some day I will be the second man from Nicaragua to play in the major leagues
SANDINISTA #1: Tippy Martinez had a good fastball , ut Pedro has a curveball and a screwball that are better .
PEDRO: You will give my autographed baseball to Tippy and tell him in five years I will be pitching with him , okay ? He better watch out for me , eh ?
SANDINISTA #1: It 's too dangerous to return to Managua at night . You should stay at the house of hammocks .
CLAIRE: Gracias . Can they get into trouble for keeping us ?
PEDRO: No , no you are not combatants . The Baltimore team is my team
PRICE: You bastard !
CLAIRE: What about him ? !
SANDINISTA #1: He 's dead .
CLAIRE: Hello sweetheart , this is your mother . I 'm in Leon and I miss you . Do n't worry about me it 's not dangerous at all . I guess you ca n't believe what you hear on the news . I 'll put this this tape in the mail when I get back to Managua , but knowing what the mail service is like , I may e home before it arrives . I think about you all the time and hope I can make it back before you graduate from Jr. High .
PRICE: I know who shot Pedro . I knew somebody was in the tower .
CLAIRE: Why did n't you tell the guerrillas ?
PRICE: I do n't know then they would 've killed him I guess . I did n't want to interfere .
CLAIRE: It was n't an easy choice .
PRICE: I think I made the wrong one . Silence .
CLAIRE: You did n't take any pictures when it was over .
PRICE: I did n't ? I picked up a gun . Jesus . Is something happening to us ?
CLAIRE: Yes .
PRICE: Are you asleep ?
CLAIRE: No .
PRICE: G'morning .
CLAIRE: What are you doing ?
PRICE: You look beautiful . She realizes what he 's been doing .
CLAIRE: How long have you been doing this ?
PRICE: 'Bout ten frames . Wait 'll you see the pictures you look great .
CLAIRE: I 'll bet I look great give me the film .
PRICE: After they 're printed .
CLAIRE: I 'll develop them myself give it to me or I 'll start taping what you say in your sleep .
PRICE: I talk in my sleep ?
CLAIRE: Girl 's names and F-stops . Terrible .
PRICE: Call the office . I do n't want to go to work today .
ALEX: How was Matagalpa ?
CLAIRE: Oh !
ALEX: Oh . How was Leon ?
CLAIRE: Bloody .
ALEX: Yeah I 'll bet Claire
CLAIRE: You have n't been here very long .
ALEX: Long enough , lets face it , you were ight everybody was right .
CLAIRE: About what ?
ALEX: My cheekbones . What do you think of 'em ?
CLAIRE: I like your cheekbones . Alex , are you all right ?
ALEX: This is a face made for television .
CLAIRE: You decided to go with the network .
ALEX: Is he a good fuck ?
CLAIRE: Alex
ALEX: That 's a reasonable question for a eporter to ask , is n't it ? ! I shoulda never come down here , eh ? This is the way it 's going to be . I 'll make a shitload of money in television for just sitting there . I 'm gon na show up to work at Rockefeller Center every morning and they 're gon na hand me the news with my coffee and toast . I shoulda never come down here , eh ? This war down here belongs to you guys , okay ? I 'm on tommorrow 's plane .
CLAIRE: Alex
ALEX: You want to take me to the airport ? It 's okay . I shoulda never come down here .
PRICE: Sniff this sucker , eh ? Alex does , and looks at the label .
ALEX: Jesus , where 'd you get this ?
CLAIRE: The C.I.A .
ALEX: Where else . They toast and drink .
PRICE: Hey I 'll leave you guys alone , eh ?
CLAIRE: No , no , do n't be ridiculous .
ALEX: We 're grownups , Russell Most of us . Awkward smile from Price .
PRICE: You two wanta happy snap ?
ALEX: No happy snaps .
PRICE: Okay , okay I 'll just be over here .
ALEX: You 're sure about him ?
CLAIRE: For the moment .
PRICE: I 'm a personal friend of Tacho 's .
ALEX: Do n't get hurt .
PRICE: Ahh , I 'm a chicken , do n't worry . Alex , listen to me
ALEX: Yeah ?
PRICE: Within a year you 're gon na be one of the `` Ten Most Admired Men in America . ''
CLAIRE: You 're late to your own luncheon , Mr. President we can schedule this for another time .
SOMOZA: Nonsense let them wait . We are a stunning couple , eh ? My stomach is very flat I 've been working out .
CLAIRE: We are a stunning couple . Mr. President , you own one fifth of all the land in Nicaragua , you own the shipping port , the national airlines , the Mercedes dealership
SOMOZA: I am on a salt free diet
CLAIRE: Do you always hold hands with eporters ?
SOMOZA: This is my mother and father . They were very special to me . Every Sunday morning I drive out to the cemetery and put flowers on their grave . I think people should know that .
CLAIRE: Would you care to comment on the fall of Leon to the rebels ?
HUB: Listen , Russell , let 's grow up . It 's very easy to fall in love with the underdog , eh ? But there 's an upside and downside to this thing just wanta remind you this stuff about a `` Revolution of Poets '' is crap .
PRICE: But it 's great P.R . So what 's the upside ?
HUB: Simple . And it could happen . Somoza destroys the terrorist insurgents , ebuilds the country , shitcans the purveyors of excess , stabilizes the cordoba , and is finally beloved as the savior of Nicaragua . Our pal . Got a smoke ? Price gives him a cigaret .
PRICE: What 's the downside ?
HUB: The Commies take over the world .
SOMOZA: My people love me . My stomach is flat . Did I say that already ? No matter . It is flat .
CLAIRE: There are reports that the Guardia operates a torture chamber at Coyotepe .
SOMOZA: I like this song .
CLAIRE: Since the earthquake in 1972 destroyed half of Managua , over three hundred million dollars in foreign relief aid have poured into the country , yet nothing has been re-built . It is said that the money has gone into your pocket .
SOMOZA: I love the press , I really do . Some of my best friends are journalists .
CLAIRE: Ecuador , Mexico , Peru , Brazil , and Panama are reportedly on the verge of breaking off diplomatic relations with your regime . Would you comment ?
SOMOZA: I am busy ! Get out of here at once or I 'll put my foot up your ass !
HUB: Did he tell you about his parents in the graveyard , the flowers and all that ? Good , good
SOMOZA: My friends this gathering was not intended to be a press conference as much as a `` get-together '' but I have just been handed a piece of news . Somoza plays the moment with theatrical elan .
JOURNALISTS: Mr. President ! Mr. President !
SOMOZA: Please my friends no questions . A press release is being prepared .
OTHER JOURNALIST: They got Rafael ? You believe that ?
REGIS: Every six months Tacho gives this speech maybe they finally lucked out .
JAZY: Russell , excuse me but I 've just een put in a rather embarrassing position . Mrs. Somoza would like her picture taken with Miss Panama . In color ?
PRICE: How the hell could Tacho find Rafael .
JAZY: Russell , please I have my hands full
MRS. SOMOZA: Tacho , Tacho venga , por favor !
PRICE: Is Tacho lying again ? They did kill him , did n't they ?
JAZY: Everybody smile .
PRICE: One more , please ! Una mas , por favor ?
JAZY: What do you need ?
PRICE: Is Rafael alive or dead ?
JAZY: I do n't know .
PRICE: Just one more thank you . I thought you knew everything ?
JAZY: What do I know , eh ? Tacho needs a victory very badly he needs to prove to Jimmy Carter that he is still winning . He thinks Rafael 's death is the proof he needs .
PRICE: Carter do n't need proof . He just sent twenty-five million in new arms to Tacho . I 'm sorry almost got it here .
JAZY: No , no the arms shipment has been delayed in New Orleans because Jimmy is getting nervous .
PRICE: The State Department 's gon na pull the plug on Tacho ? ! Pardon my French ut whose fucking side are you on ?
JAZY: I work for everybody . If there is a transition of power , I facilitate a relationship with the new people . If there is not , I facilitate the status quo . Either way , I facilitate .
PRICE: Great job .
JAZY: I send messages to Jimmy and I tell him that the Revolution is a flood that can not be stopped but it can be controlled nobody listens I ca n't even get a little water in my pool .
PRICE: Rough ai n't it . Thank you everybody , very nice .
JAZY: They say he 's very handsome . It would make a wonderful picture , eh ? The two men share a smile .
PRICE: Con permiso who controls what today ?
CLAIRE: How do we find the guerillas ?
REGIS: What 'd he say ?
CLAIRE: Go two or three blocks and turn right at the sniper .
PRICE: You can drop us off .
REGIS: We 're not looking for the guerillas .
CLAIRE: Then let us out . The car stops , the door opens , and
SOLDIER: Lo siento !
PRICE: Go one more block .
CLAIRE: He just wanted to see credentials , for crissakes , what 're doing ?
REGIS: You want to drive ?
PRICE: We want out !
PRICE: Periodista , periodista , periodista !
BOY: Busca triquitraques ?
CLAIRE: Si .
BOY: Venga . They follow him up a hill .
ISELA: You are looking for Rafael ?
PRICE: Yeah . If it 's possible .
CLAIRE: Do you know why we 're here exactly ?
ISELA: Mr. Price does n't do anything before announcing it first in the bar . It 's a good story . You 'll be more famous .
CLAIRE: Rafael 's tent ?
ISELA: Venga , companeros .
CLAIRE: What is it ? Price looks around , speaks quietly .
PRICE: Rafael is dead .
CLAIRE: I do n't know .
ISELA: Venga por favor ! Alli !
CLAIRE: What 're you talking about ?
PRICE: He 's dead . I know it .
CLAIRE: Then why did they bring us all the way here to see him ? He does n't know .
ISELA: This is Commandante Cinco . They all shake hands . Isela begins at once .
COMMANDANTE CINCO: Queremos un fotografia .
ISELA: We need a photograph . Come with us .
COMMANDANTE CINCO: Usted es un fotografo magnifico . Queremos que vive . Price laughs the request is ridiculous .
ISELA: Why is he laughing ?
PRICE: You 're crazy .
CINCO: We have momentum , but many more lives will be lost . Even Washington is starting to admit that the butche Somoza is not loved by his people . They have detained twenty-five million dollars in new arms shipments fo Somoza at an airfield in Florida until they find out if Rafael is alive or dead . We know about these things . He pauses briefly .
CLAIRE: If Washington thinks Rafael is dead , they will ship the arms to Somoza . Do you understand .
PRICE: Yeah . Commandante Soy un periodista . CINCO attacks that defense with new vigor .
CINCO: This has nothing to do with journalism there is more to the world than journalism . We are going to end this war with you or without you . People do n't really believe in Rafael they believe in the idea of Rafael , no ? Because for now the idea of Rafael is enough for the people of Nicaragua . When the war is over none of this matters .
PRICE: I do n't do things like this .
CINCO: Enough lives have been lost already . It 's difficult , I know but you must do it .
CLAIRE: I spend my whole life separating how I feel from how I think and what I see from what I say that 's called journalism , is n't it ? He nods slightly .
PRICE: Or when you 're in bed .
CLAIRE: Yes ! My job is to find a story , then tell a story whatever it is because I believe that if enough people hea enough stories then somehow , through information alone , we all have a etter chance to survive . I believe in information . That 's a very romantic streak I have unning through me maybe it 's a weakness . Information is good lack of information is bad . Simple , eh ?
PRICE: Not so simple .
CLAIRE: You 're God damn right it 's not . You take that picture you 'll take it for all the right reasons I understand .
PRICE: I 'm not gon na take it . He fiddles with the cameras .
CLAIRE: That 's fine for you . But do I go ack and say I interviewed Rafael ? Do I go back and say I missed the iggest story of the war ? Or do I say Rafael was stone cold dead that 's the information , is n't it ? O do I say he entertained us all in his inimitably charismatic manne around the ol ' revolutionary campfire ? Can we throw up our arms and say we fell in love with the querillas ecause their cause was sympathetic ? Journalists do n't fall in love . Which story do you want me to tell ? Silence .
PRICE: Do what you want to do .
CLAIRE: Christ , what the fuck are we doing here ?
PRICE: I want to be here . With you . What do you want . Silence .
CLAIRE: I want this war to end . I 'm not going to tell the world that Rafael is dead .
PRICE: I love you .
CLAIRE: I think I love you .
PRICE: Do n't think so much .
MISS PANAMA: Marcel !
REGIS: We got the smoke in frame ?
CREWMEMBER: We got the smoke .
REGIS: Roll it
CLAIRE: Under a steel gray July sky start again under a gray steel Managuan sky scratch it In an extraordinary development in Managua , President Anastazio Somoza has ordered the Air Force to begin bombing his own capitol , under a sky fuck it
PRICE: What 's he doing here ?
CLAIRE: I have no idea .
ALEX: Congratulations .
PRICE: On what ?
ALEX: On what ? ! The Washington Post , the Times , networks , wire services everybody 's picked up the picture . It 's fabulous .
CLAIRE: Well , yes it 's fabulous .
PRICE: Fabulous . Unsure silence .
CLAIRE: Why are you back ?
ALEX: I came back because of Russell .
PRICE: Because of me ?
ALEX: Yeah the whole fucking East Coast is falling in love with Rafael they were sure he was dead this time . Somebody wants to do a musical about him and his mug 's on every T-shirt in Central Park .
CLAIRE: You look good . Things 're okay ?
ALEX: I 'm happier in New York , sure , things are great . You guys ?
PRICE: Terrific now I 'm a little slow here , Alex what exactly did you come back for ?
ALEX: It 's a great story . I want to talk to Rafael and you 're the only man in the world that can take me to him .
HUB: Alex ! Could n't stay away , eh ?
CLAIRE: We 've got to tell Alex what happened .
PRICE: No way .
CLAIRE: I 'll tell him . He deserves to know .
PRICE: We do n't owe him anything !
CLAIRE: We owe him that ! He got you started in this business he covered for your missed deadlines and made excuses for you unprofessional attitude before the world fell in love with you pictures Before kids fresh out of journalism school were rushing off to any wa they could to interview bullets and take pictures of bodies like Price ! He took care of you before you were hot !
PRICE: He would n't understand .
CLAIRE: Before Nicaragua you would n't understand . I 'm not sure I exactly understand . What are we going to do ?
PRICE: I 'll take Alex to find Rafael we 'll go to Sebaco on the road to Matagalpa the Guardia heavily control the area and they 're scared ight now they 'll never let us through . We wo n't be able to get near Rafael . Alex will understand and we 'll turn around and drive back without a story .
CLAIRE: That 's a lie !
PRICE: Tell me about lies !
CLAIRE: I do n't want to tell him either .
PRICE: We may not be able to find him , y'know
ALEX: I 've got supreme confidence in you .
PRICE: Everybody looks good in the tropics .
ALEX: Since I have n't been able to find Isela since coming back , you 're going to have to translate for me what the hell does that mean ? Price is nervous , wired , on edge .
PRICE: Alex I love her .
ALEX: And she 'thinks ' she loves you .
PRICE: It 's past the thinking stage .
ALEX: I 'd like to know something it probably does n't matter in the great final scheme of things but I 'm interested Did you ever lay a hand on her before she left me ?
PRICE: No !
ALEX: That 's the truth ?
PRICE: Yes ! Alex we 're friends ! There is something desperate in his voice .
SOLDIER: Venga .
ALEX: I bet you go through a few rental cars .
PRICE: Do n't worry . I put this in your name .
OATES: No pictures , eh ? Might look bad .
PRICE: You get paid by the body or by the hour ?
OATES: I get paid the same way you do . What the fuck you doin ' in Sebaco this place 's about to blow ai n't it ?
PRICE: You did n't have to nail Pedro .
OATES: Who 's Pedro ?
ALEX: Oh my God
OATES: There 's a motherfucking war goin ' on , pal lotta sad stories .
PRICE: Why them ? Why them ? !
OATES: I do n't suck no dick , man
ALEX: Russell , let 's get outta here .
PRICE: Fuck you .
OATES: Guy 's got a sense of humor , old man . Got any dope ? Tough place to find decent dope ?
PRICE: Why them ?
OATES: Them ? C'mere . You too .
ALEX: Who gives you the pictures ?
OATES: What 's this , an interview ? I ai n't that dumb . Price turns , he does n't want to face it .
ALEX: Off the record .
OATES: Off the record some pachuco gives 'em to me . Ai n't none of my business , ut I heard he gets 'em from a Frog .
PRICE: She dead ?
OATES: Not yet .
PRICE: Some-motherfucker-took-my-fucking- pictures-I-don't-fucking-know-what- happened ! Fuck me ! Silence .
ALEX: Did n't you ship the film to New York ?
PRICE: I developed it in my room . Jesus Christ , Alex ? ! Silence . The car races .
ALEX: Slow down . It was n't your fault if somebody stole your stuff
PRICE: It was .
ALEX: What about Rafael ?
PRICE: Algo no esta aqui . Fotografias .
MAID: Everything 's always a mess here . You should be neater .
PRICE: Negativos , negativos !
CLAIRE: Commandante Cinco 's body was just found on the road to Matagalpa .
PRICE: Oates said it was a Frog . How many Frenchmen you know around here ? Jazy ai n't 'facilitating ' shit .
CLAIRE: Christ !
PRICE: Anything .
CLAIRE: Que quiere ?
SOLDIER: Donde esta senor Jazy ?
CLAIRE: No esta aqui .
SOLDIER: Que quienes ?
CLAIRE: Una novia suya .
SOLDIER #2: El hombre tiene muchas novias , eh ?
CLAIRE: No , no , no
PRICE: Let 's get out of here .
MISS PANAMA: Hola .
PRICE: We 've got to talk to Alex . They start walking .
CLAIRE: You think our flags are big enough ?
PRICE: This is what I want to show you .
ALEX: We drove through three roadblocks a half hour before curfew so you could show me a statue of Tacho .
PRICE: It 's not Tacho . It 's Mussolini . Tacho went to Italy to commission a statue of himself , he found a warehouse full of Il Duces on horseback , got a great deal on one of 'em brought it back and switched heads . Ya ca n't tell , can ya ?
ALEX: What the hell are you talking about ?
CLAIRE: I think what he 's trying to say what we 're trying to say is that things are n't exactly what they seem to be .
ALEX: Well , they do n't `` seem '' to be that great so I ca n't wait for this one Hey , here we are ! Two guys in the tropics in love with the same dame ullets flying !
CLAIRE: Alex ! That 's not why we 're here .
ALEX: Oh yeah ? I left the country because of him and I came back because of him And now the cutest couple in town has me looking up a horse 's ass on a midnight tour of Managua . What are we doing here ? Silence . Claire addresses Alex calmly .
CLAIRE: Rafael is dead . Silence . Alex is n't quite sure he understood .
ALEX: In the picture he 's dead ?
PRICE: Dead !
ALEX: How the hell
CLAIRE: Who cares how ? !
PRICE: Alex I think I finally saw one too many bodies . Somoza is a killer . I thought the war would end sooner . How many reasons do you want ?
ALEX: You saw too many bodies ? That 's a lot of bodies . You stupid son of a bitch . Did he talk you into it ?
CLAIRE: No ! I wanted Rafael to be alive .
ALEX: In some way I understand him doing it , I do n't like it but I understand but you ?
CLAIRE: I 'd do it again .
ALEX: You two have , of course , just served me up your balls if that 's what they 're called on a platter . I can bury you both . You 're handing me your careers . They do n't respond he 's right .
CLAIRE: Anything you want .
ALEX: They 're holding the lead in the World section for Rafael .
PRICE: It 's great stuff , is n't it ? We 'd go down in a blaze of glory .
ALEX: Oh yeah I do n't know what to do . I 've got ta take some kind of a story ack with me . Maybe Jazy , eh ?
CLAIRE: Oh Jesus .
PRICE: It 's a little dangerous looking fo Jazy at the moment .
ALEX: Ah , danger I love it . You could ask the pointy-shoed little bastard about your pictures and I could ask him whatever happened to Isela .
CLAIRE: She 's an officer in the Rafael army we saw her in Matagalpa .
ALEX: You mean I slept with a Sandinista ?
PRICE: Damn air conditioning .
CLAIRE: I wish I was home . Silence .
PRICE: C'mere . She goes to him , lies down , and they embrace .
CLAIRE: Do you think it 's almost over ?
PRICE: Alex let 's go back .
ALEX: Jazy 's probably sitting in the ba laughing at us . Which way 's the hotel ?
PRICE: I do n't know .
ALEX: I 'll ask her be right back .
PRICE: Just a sec ' take a flag .
GUARDIA SOLDIER: Fotografia !
SOMOZA: It is with grave concern that we announce that Alexander Grazier , senior American correspondent , has een murdered at the hands of terrorists
REGIS: Get my bill and get me a cab , hey , amigo ! The clerk is under attack .
CLERK: No cabs .
REGIS: Cabs !
CLERK: No cabs !
REGIS: I 'm sorry , Claire
CLAIRE: Heard from Russell ?
REGIS: Nobody has .
CLAIRE: Wanta help me find him ? Regis looks at her like she 's crazy .
REGIS: Claire it 's on the weird side out there
HUB: Jesus Christ , Claire , a human tragedy , what can I say ? Claire is nearly in tears , but resists .
CLAIRE: Fuck off , Hub , get outta my way .
WOMAN: This is the best I can offer .
PRICE: Gracias .
SOLDIER: Venga aqui .
WOMAN: Nobody is here . Get out .
LEADER: Esta alli ? ! No answer .
BOY SOLDIER: No esta aqui .
GUARDIA OFFICER: We are you ! We are you ! What are you doing ? !
CLAIRE: Russell !
PRICE: What 're you doing here ? !
CLAIRE: Alex !
PRICE: The Guardia did it I got pictures .
DISCO SANDINISTA: I do n't know .
MUCHACHO #1: Who are you ?
JAZY: They are my friends .
MUCHACHO #2: Shut up . We kill them all .
MUCHACHO #3: No . Only him .
MUCHACHO #1: Him or him or her ?
JAZY: Well , here we are , eh ?
MUCHACHO #1: Assassin ! Shut up !
JAZY: The boys are confused they think I had their family killed .
PRICE: You murder people .
JAZY: `` Murder '' is a word for criminals . I have a job to protect the stability of a continent .
MUCHACHO #3: Pig ! Hijo de puta !
JAZY: Please
CLAIRE: You got caught by some boys ?
JAZY: Yes . Poets too , I imagine . Is your recorder on ?
CLAIRE: Yes .
JAZY: Good . I have a speech to make .
MUCHACHO #1: Shut up !
JAZY: Un minuto , por favor .
MUCHACHO #2: Who are you ?
JAZY: They are journalists .
MUCHACHO #1: Periodistas ! Take this picture ! I 'm going to blow his head off .
JAZY: Somoza ? He is a tyrant too , of course . A butcher . But finally that is not the point , you see . If we wish to survive we have a choice of tyrants , and fo all the right reasons , your poets choose the wrong side .
MUCHACHO #1: Fotografia !
PRICE: No .
JAZY: Yes . Your picture of Rafael was illiant but I am alive , and etter looking . A good looking Frenchman with a sympathetic face is murdered in cold blood while fighting for the survival of Europe and America . You will have another magazine cover ! Muy complicado , no ?
MUCHACHO #1: Ready ! Now !
CLAIRE: You picked the wrong side .
JAZY: In fifty years we will know who 's ight . Are you going to take the picture as the bullet enters the skull or as it comes out ? This wall 's a nice color , eh ? I can move into the sunlight .
MUCHACHO #1: Shut up !
JAZY: They say that if somebody 's holding a gun on you , you should never stop talking that 's the theory who knows ?
CLAIRE: You okay ? Russell what did Alex do ?
PRICE: Nothing . He asked for directions .
CLAIRE: They 're not looking for me . Silence .
PRICE: Aw , Christ I 've wrecked everything else , at least let me take care of you here .
CLAIRE: Russell it 's more dangerous being with you than being alone .
PRICE: Do n't get hurt .
CLAIRE: That 's great advice .
DOCTOR: Journalist ? You knew the man who was killed ? Fifty thousand Nicaraguans have died and now one Yankee . Perhaps now Americans will be outraged at what is happening here , eh ? It takes a while for Claire to respond .
CLAIRE: Yes perhaps they will .
DOCTOR: Maybe we should have killed an American journalist fifty years ago .
CLAIRE: Have you seen La Guardia ?
CHILD: Tanquettas ! Tanquettas !
CLAIRE: Yes .
PRICE: Alex .
CLAIRE: Can you help us ship it home ?
HUB: I 've already taken care of it . I always liked the guy . I ca n't even get tickets for my own family , but I could get you two on the plane if you want .
PRICE: Yes , please
HUB: Tacho 's in Miami .
HUB'S DAUGHTER: Daddy !
HUB: I am sorry . I had a job to do that 's all it put me in some unhappy situations . Hub goes over to take care of his family .
OATES: Hey , Pricey Price looks over to see the smiling Oates .
PRICE: What 're you doing here ?
OATES: Free country . Now it 's free , anyway . Nicalibre ! Oates holds up his Kodak Instamatic camera .
PRICE: We 've got a plane to catch .
CLAIRE: Did you get enough pictures ?
THE END: < /pre
LIZ: Hey You 're gon na do great . You always do .
MARTIN: I 'll do this . You check in .
LIZ: The Eisenhower suite . Dr. and Mrs. Harris .
BELLHOP: Welcome to the Hotel Imperial . Have you stayed with us before ?
MARTIN: No , this is our first visit to Berlin . We 're
LIZ: What do you mean the suite may not be available ?
RECEPTIONIST: I have to check with the manager . Security inspections of the rooms are still being completed .
LIZ: But we confirmed two months ago .
MARTIN: Tegel airport . Arrivals . Quick .
GINA: Everyone says how much it 's changed . Berlin . Eyes connect , brief . Wipers flip-flap .
MARTIN: .I would n't know . First time .
GINA: Yes , me too . I mean , I would n't know either . You 're American ? He looks back at her , inquisitive
MARTIN: I think you missed
GINA: You do what you do , I do what I do , right ?
MARTIN: What do you do , when you 're not ?
GINA: It 's okay . I know what you meant . Her eyes meet his in the mirror .
PARAMEDIC: Achtung ! WHOMPF ! The charge surges into Martin 's body .
FARGE: Wenn Sie mich horen konnen , linken Sie zweimal .
MARTIN: I I do n't speak German
FARGE: Are you English ?
MARTIN: . American
FARGE: My name is Doctor Farge . You are in the Waldfriede Hospital . I 'm the head neurologist here . You have been in an accident .
BEAT: Can you tell me your name ? Beat . Martin nods . Voice weak .
MARTIN: Martin Harris . Doctor Martin Harris
FARCE: Where are you staying ? Is there anyone here , in Berlin , that we
MARTIN: My wife.. ?
SUDDEN PANIC: Where 's my wife ? Liz ? Is she hurt ? Where is she ? !
FARGE: Doctor Harris , it 's all right . The taxi you were in went into the river . You were the only passenger . Your heart stopped for six minutes . It is Thursday , November 27th . For four days you have been in a coma .
MARTIN: Thanksgiving but my wife she 's in Berlin with me . Where is she ? Why is n't she here ?
FARGE: We did n't find any identification with you , Doctor Harris the driver , who saved your life , disappeared soon after the accident and no one else has come forward . I must apologize , but we had no idea who you were .
MARTIN: Oh , Jesus Liz does n't know She 'll she 'll be worried sick .
FARGE: Calm down , Doctor Harris , please . Where can we reach your wife ? Does she have a cell phone ?
MARTIN: Yes yes , she does it 's I ca n't remember
FARGE: Can you tell me what you do emember , Martin ? Do you emember what day it is ? A beat . Giving it thought then
MARTIN: Thanksgiving . You told me that . I remember almost everything . But I do n't know how I got here . Another beat . He shakes his head . Scared
FARGE: It 's called retrograde amnesia . With severe trauma of this kind , memories get lost , or fractured . Most return although it 's unlikely you 'll ever fully recall the events around your accident .
BEAT: In the meantime , let us see if anyone has filed a report looking for a Martin Harris , okay ?
MARTIN: Yes , yes okay .
FRANTIC: Doctor ! Please , get the Doctor .
FARGE: you have to realize the risk
MARTIN: Doctor , I 've been gone for fou days . My wife is out there , in a city she does n't know . She must e terrified I need to find her before
FARGE: Let me call the hotel again . We can leave a message
MARTIN: Yes , fine , but look , I know her . She 's looking for me . You 're married , are n't you ? What would you do ?
FARGE: This is my card . Any nausea , dizziness , difficulty with speech , you contact me immediately . Do you understand ?
MARTIN: .Liz ?
MAID: Ah . Entpfang reception
GUARD: Excuse me , sir . Do you have an invitation , sir ?
MARTIN: No I mean yes Distracted , still looking at passing faces
STRAUSS: Dr. Harris . Do you have any other identification ? Passport ? Drivers license ?
MARTIN: I 've already told this gentleman , I 've been in the hospital . I was in an accident Martin sees someone through the crowd
STRAUSS: I 'm sorry , sir
MARTIN: That 's Professor Bressler , right there . He knows me , he can confirm who I am .
STRAUSS: If you would be patient , sir .
MARTIN: No , I 'm done being patient Martin stops short . Staring past them
STRAUSS: Excuse me Madam . Your husband is here . He needs to
MARTIN: Liz
LIZ: Excuse me do I know you ?
MARTIN: Liz ? Please . It 's me .
LIZ: And just who might 'you ' be ?
MARTIN: It 's me . Martin . Your husband .
LIZ: This is a misunderstanding . I I do n't know this man . This is my husband Martin .
COMING OVER: What 's up ?
STRAUSS: You are Dr. Harris ?
MARTIN B: Last time I looked
MARTIN: Is this some kind of a joke ?
LIZ: What are you talking about ?
MARTIN: because it really is n't funny .
LIZ: joke about what ?
MARTIN: Do you have any idea what I 've een through ?
LIZ: No . I have no idea what you 've een through .
MARTIN: I 've been in the hospital fo four days ! Where were you ? Were you even trying to find me ? !
MARTIN B: Look , You seem like you 've had an accident , or perhaps
MARTIN: who the hell are you ! ?
MARTIN B: Okay , okay . Can you please just get him out of here ? Martin rounds on Martin B. Jabs a finger .
MARTIN: You . Whatever you think you 're doing , you need to stop it .
TO LIZ: Liz , please . This is
STRAUSS: If you do n't leave now , sir , we 'll have to call the police . Martin pulling free , steps away .
MARTIN: Great ! That 's the first good idea anyone 's had . Call the police . Call the God damn Army !
MARTIN: There ! Right there !
STRAUSS: As you can see you 're not there .
OLDER DETECTIVE: Immigration confirms the arrival of a Doctor and Mrs. Harris on November 23rd at 16.37 . An hou later they checked into thei suite at the Hotel .
MARTIN: He 's not Martin Harris . I am Martin Harris . The man downstairs is pretending to be me .
OLDER DETECTIVE: And this impostor may I ask ? Did he also steal your wife ?
MARTIN: He 's forcing her he must have
STRAUSS: but why ? Exactly ? .Why ?
MARTIN: This this is insane .
THROUGH PHONE: This is Doctor Cole . I 'm having an out-of-office experience right now , so leave a message . Click . Awkward SILENCE . Martin flailing
MARTIN: Professor Bressler , talk to him . He 's why I 'm in Berlin .
STRAUSS: You want us to disturb a Nobel prize winning scientist , simply to attest to your story when no crime has been committed ?
MARTIN: But it has ! That man has taken everything from me , do n't you see ? You have to arrest him
STRAUSS: For what ? Entering the country legally ? Presenting all the correct documentation ?
EYES GLUED: She is my wife !
OLDER DETECTIVE: Even if she is your wife , sharing a room with her is not illegal . Not in Germany .
FEMALE DETECTIVE: Look at her . Soon we 'll have twenty more men claiming to be her husband .
COLD: I 'm sorry , I did n't realize this was funny to you .
OLDER DETECTIVE: Listen you have no proof you are even American . We can arrest you only for that .
MARTIN: I told you , I was in an accident . I lost I lost all my Wait , what are you doing ?
OLDER DETECTIVE: On Monday , you can speak with a lawyer . Tell him who you are .
MARTIN: I 'm sorry you 're probably ight . Faces look over , interested .
STRAUSS: So now you are saying that you are not Dr. Martin Harris ? ON MARTIN . Eyes tight . Point of no return .
MARTIN: I I do n't know .
MARTIN: Rodney it 's me , Martin . Rod , I 'm in Berlin for the conference , but it 's Liz . She 's I 'm in trouble , Rod
WOMAN: Fur Reisepaf3 passport
MAN: Please ! Hold the door !
LIZ: Are you ready ?
MARTIN: Are you going to give up ?
BEAT: okay . Solve the problem
MARTIN: Can I help you ? Hello ?
BIKO: He says he does n't care if she saved your life the bitch cost him 20,000 Euros the insurance wo n't cover the cab because she had no license the driver who was letting her moonlight in his taxi , skipped town
MARTIN: So . I 'm guessing he does n't know where she is .
SMALL BEAT: No one knows where she is . Martin studies Biko , nods .
MARTIN: Please thank him for his time .
BIKO: Hey , American . I 'm sorry we could n't help you
MARTIN: You know where she is . You paused . I could tell .
SOFTENING: I just want to thank her . Please .
BIKO: Solomon Solomon Obiko . My friends just call me Biko .
MARTIN: Martin . Martin Harris .
GINA: I do n't drive a taxi .
MARTIN: No , you do . I was in your taxi , we crashed . Why did you leave ? Why did n't you talk to the police ? Hey ! She puts up a hand , calming him .
GINA: Okay . Okay . How did you find me ?
MARTIN: Your friend , Biko . It 's not his fault . I told him I had money for you .
GINA: Do you ?
MARTIN: No . I mean , not now . I
MOVING AWAY: Crazy ?
MARTIN: Yes , crazy but it 's true .
GINA: What do you expect me to do ? I 'm an illegal , driving a taxi without a permit , in an accident without insurance . If the cops catch up with me they 'll throw me in jail . If I 'm in jail , I lose everything , understand ? If I 'm in jail , they deport me .
MARTIN: You 're not listening to me
GINA: No ! It 's you who is not listening . You 're an American . Go to your fancy embassy . Go to the Police . There a million people here who will help you .
MARTIN: But you know who I am .
GINA: No , I do n't . What 's your name ?
MARTIN: Martin Harris , Doctor M
GINA: Okay , fantastic , you 're Martin Harris . You 're whoever you say you are . Yes , I picked you up and we crashed . It does n't mean I know who you are !
SUDDENLY: Where was I going ? In the taxi ?
GINA: What ? To the airport . Arrivals . You were in a hurry .
MARTIN: But I 'd just arrived . It does n't make any sense
GINA: You 'd have done the same .
MARTIN: No . You ca n't be sure how you 'll act . Not until something like that happens .
GINA: Well I know me . I jump in without thinking . It causes me lot of trouble .
SPIEGLER: Have you contacted your Credit Card companies ?
MARTIN: No . You do n't understand . As I explained to the last guar who went home by the way it 's not about Credit Cards . Someone has taken over my identity . Someone is pretending to be me . Here . In Berlin .
SPIEGLER: Did you contact the local authorities ?
MARTIN: Yes . They They believe the other man . I need a new passport , papers to prove
SPIEGLER: Why do they believe the othe man ?
MARTIN: Because Because my wife . He 's staying with my wife . They must e forcing her
SPIEGLER: Do you know , the things people will do to get a US Passport ?
BEAT: Anyway , we 're closing until Monday . If you come back then
MARTIN: Monday ? ! They 've kidnappedmy wife . You need to find out who this other man is , you need to be in contact with my wife
SPIEGLER: You understand , we 're not a detective agency , we
MARTIN: I have a meeting with Bressler
SPIEGLER: What ?
COLLECTING THINGS: Never mind . You 've been very unhelpful . Earlier a woman yelled at me because I had it so easy being an American . Have a nice day
SPIEGLER: Hey . Martin Harris . Here Martin takes it .
MARTIN: Excuse me . I need to find Professor Bressler 's lab . I have an appointment at 12.30 I 'm late
RECEPTIONIST: Your name please ?
MARTIN: Dr. Martin Harris . The professo knows who I am . We scheduled this meeting weeks ago .
RECEPTIONIST: The professor knows you ?
MARTIN: Well , we have n't met , but we 've een corresponding . He invited me here to discuss my thesis . Dr. Martin Harris She frowns , rises from the desk .
RECEPTIONIST: Wait here please .
MARTIN: Is there some sort of problem ?
RECEPTIONIST: Nein eingang ist verboten
BRESSLER: It 's puzzling , one wonders how
MARTIN: Professor Bressler
BRESSLER: This laboratory is a restricted area . Who are you ?
MARTIN: It 's all right , Professor
MARTIN B: What the hell are you doing here ?
BRESSLER: You know this man ?
MARTIN B: how did you get in here ? Are you absolutely out of your mind ?
MARTIN: Professor . He is not Martin Harris . I am Martin Harris .
MARTIN B: oh , Jesus
BRESSLER: So what is this ? Some sort of hybridized propagation ? There are two Martin Harrises ?
MARTIN B: No let me explain . This man showed up at the hotel last night . Security had to remove him . The police were called
MARTIN: I called the police , you sonofabitch !
MARTIN B: seems he checked himself out of the hospital . He was in an accident of some sort .
MARTIN: Drakea Drakensis Miss Drake was wrong
MARTIN B: I do n't believe it ! You 've een listening to my calls ? Just who the hell are you ?
MARTIN: I said I 'd like to do the same for my kids . You talked about your children Two girls right ? Yeah their
MARTIN B: Laurel , and Lily . Martin frozen as Martin B goes on
MARTIN: No ! That was n't you . Do n't you emember ? We spoke of how brave our wives were to marry -
MARTIN B: to marry scientists . I told you about our honeymoon
OVERLAPPING: our honeymoon in Paris . My wife and I. Liz wanted to go to the museums . All I wanted to do was visit the
MARTIN: I this is n't happening
MARTIN B: I ca n't believe I need to do this
FARCE: The police brought you here . The mistake was mine . I should neve have let you leave .
MARTIN: Doctor Do you know what it feels like , to become insane ?
FARGE: ..There is quite a lot of literature on the subject . But finally , I would say it 's a
MARTIN: I can tell you .
ALMOST CALM: It 's like a war , between what you know He taps his forehead .
JONES: Hello , Martin . This wo n't take very long .
NURSE: Excuse me , where are you taking this patient ?
JONES: We have instruction to move this patient to the American Hospital at Wiesbaden . Here are the papers .
NURSE: I 'm surprised I was n't informed Let me check with A SOUND , like paper torn quick
DOCTOR: You two . We need help ! . Right now !
MARTIN: It 's okay I 'm fine
FARGE: .The man 's condition was unusual , yes . But there was nothing to indicate violence .
OLDER DETECTIVE: Is he still dangerous ?
FARGE: To someone who threatens that fantasy ? Yes . I believe he is .
JURGEN: Alles in ordnung , Frau Brunner .
MARTIN: That 's where Spiegler worked fo you ? The secret police ?
JURGEN: A true believer , like the rest of us . Now look at him . I should have had him shot .
MARTIN: I always have it with me . It was a gift from my father
JURGEN: These mean anything to you ?
MARTIN: No . It 's my wife 's handwriting .
JURGEN: So , they mean something to her . He looks to Martin . Direct .
MARTIN: My schedule for this week . It 's everything I remember .
JURGEN: Passport , credit cards , family photos things like these take time to prepare . You say this man has detailed knowledge of your research , of you elationship with
MARTIN: Professor Bressler . He knows everything
JURGEN: Including the fact that you were going to have a random accident that would allow him seamlessly to take your place ? These people may be good , but they 're not God . The question is , why would they want to take your place ? What could they gain from being you ?
MARTIN: They tried to kill me .
JURGEN: Yes , did you a favor I 'd say . Now you have Redlichkeit Now you know you are right .
MARTIN: Do you believe me ?
JURGEN: In the Stasi , we had a basic principle Ask enough questions and a man who is lying will eventually change his story . But a man who tells the truth can not change his , however unlikely his story sounds . I believe you are telling the truth , Doctor Harris . A long beat . Jurgen closes the notebook .
MARTIN: of money ?
JURGEN: Yes . Of money .
MARTIN: It 's all I have . I 'll pay you in cash as soon as I can .
JURGEN: Doctor Harris
MARTIN: Thank you .
JURGEN: I 'll need twenty-four hours . Call me tomorrow afternoon . Do you have a place to stay ? A long beat . Off Martin 's FACE
GINA: Hey , friend . We 're closing
STEPPING BACK: I thought I told you to
MARTIN: I 'm sorry . Please . I had nowhere else to go She starts to respond , holds it back . Nods .
GINA: I know the feeling .
MARTIN: I just need to know . The man you picked up , the man who 's life you saved . That was me , right ? It was me .
GINA: You 're married . What about you wife ?
MARTIN: I do n't know .
BEAT: Can you imagine what it 's like , to wake up one day , and you life has been erased . Beat . He starts to rise , collect himself .
GINA: It was you . Martin Harris . You .
NODDING: Thank you .
GINA: Do n't be an idiot . Come on
MARTIN: .Five years .
GINA: Where did you meet her ?
MARTIN: Yale I was a teaching assistant . Liz heard me lecture .
GINA: And there 's no way she just did n't recognize you ?
MARTIN: .You do n't have to believe me . It 's crazy , I know .
GINA: Everyone has a story Where they came from , where they are going , what happened to them . Why they 're not happy , o alone . Who cares what I believe . It 's ullshit . All that matters is Who you are , what you do , right now .
BEAT: Or maybe I 'll come home one day and find a stranger who claims to e me . I 'd like that . Walk away . Leave it all behind .
MARTIN: I 'd still have my memories .
GINA: You see ? We 're different . You like your memories . very American of you . He nods . She shrugs , turns away .
MARTIN: Thank you .
GINA: The walls are made of cardboard but it 's home .
CAFE OWNER: You guys are quick
CALLING OUT: The light 's bust so you have to leave the door open if you want to see anything . Do n't worry , I wo n't peek .
MARTIN: Oh . I 'm sorry , I just I 'm sorry . Did you do these ?
GINA: I give you a place to stay , it does n't give you the right to
MARTIN: No , you 're right I 'm sorry . They 're beautiful . You should
GINA: I should what ? Have been an artist ? Perhaps in Bosnia `` Can you imagine what it 's like , to wake up one day . And you whole life has been erased ? ''
MARTIN: Your eyes It 's the one thing I remember about the accident . Your eyes in the mirror He tails off . Face-to-face
BIKO: You got company ?
GINA: You 're the best .
MARTIN: I 'm I 'm just going in here . Biko looks at Gina , raises an eyebrow .
GINA: Yes , that 's right . I sleep with every married American you send my way Thank you for that , by the way .
BIKO: Hey , no need to explain to me .
GINA: Get on your way ! Go !
BIKO: Hey , while you 're at it , check the line to number eight . She 's always getting bad service .
GINA: Just a moment , Biko . And you 're going to be late
MARTIN: No , look !
MARTIN: We have to go up
GINA: Left ! Turn left
MARTIN: C'mon !
GINA: Come on
MARTIN: Gina
GINA: His family is in Africa . The money will just stop coming they 'll never know why
LIZ: Are you ready ?
GINA: .Put these on .
MARTIN: .Yes . I think so I do n't emember how it felt exactly .
GINA: So why would she do this to you ?
MARTIN: .For the same reason I would . If I thought it was the only way to protect her .
GINA: In Bosnia It was not like you probably imagine . It was nice . .there were cherry blossoms .
BEAT: One day , I was sixteen . My sister and my brother came to me and said hey let 's play hide and seek , down by the creek . He had ten Marka for whoever won . It was amazing , the way he just said it
MARTIN: We 're you
GINA: What ? Raped ?
BEAT: No . No one touched me . But now I 'm not going anywhere . I 'm not running anymore .
MARTIN: I wo n't let anything happen to you .
SMILES SLEEPY: Liar Say it again .
MARTIN: I 'll protect you .
GINA: .Cool .
MARTIN: Thank you for coming .
JURGEN: You know , the most dangerous man in the world is the man who feels that he is drowning . He will drag under anyone who tries to help him .
MARTIN: I I did n't do it . Jurgen studies him , hard . Looks back at Gina .
JURGEN: You said you had something .
MARTIN: These numbers , are a code . The first number refers to the page of a given book . The second to a specific line on that page . The third number to words on that line . If I did n't have the exact edition of the book , the code would be unbreakable .
JURGEN: And what do the numbers refer to ?
MARTIN: That 's where it breaks down the words are the Latin names of two plant species Calochortus Albus and Umbellularia Californica . Fairy Lantern and California Bay . Both common flowering plants
JURGEN: Not part of your work ? O Professor Bressler 's ?
MARTIN: `` The role of Gorytini and Thynnidae in Drakea pollination . ''
JURGEN: And it was after reading it that he invited you here . Correct ?
MARTIN: Correct . Yes . Look
JURGEN: Did you ever know someone called Laurence Darnell ?
SHRUGS: Fahad 's sponsoring the Forum , Bressler 's the keynote speaker .
JURGEN: So they 're not close ?
MARTIN: In a way they 're opposites . Bressler wants to end world hunger . Open research universal access to all his data on crop cultivation
JURGEN: But Fahad 's just a businessman .
MARTIN: They 're both progressives . Fahad knows we 'll need food long afte oil . New agricultural patents are worth billions
JURGEN: But his progressiveness has cost him his own people hate him the attempts on his life
MARTIN: He 's got balls , that 's for sure .
JURGEN: There 's a cocktail party , before Bressler 's speech tonight ?
MARTIN: It 's in our suite . Champagne and hors d'oeuvres for Bressler and a few of his guests .
JURGEN: Is Fahad going to be there ?
MARTIN: Yes . Bressler invited him Martin trails off . Starting to get there
JURGEN: Martin Harris with just a few guests , in a confined space with Prince Fahad . For some , that might be a very good reason to want to be you .
MARTIN: Oh , Jesus You ca n't Jurgen flips his notebook shut . Gets up .
JURGEN: I need a few more hours . You need to go somewhere you will not e seen . Then meet me outside the Cafe Adler on the Kochstrasse . 6.30 sharp .
GINA: We have to go . We have to do what Jurgen said , stay out of
MARTIN: Jurgen may have nothing . I need your help .
MARTIN B: Dr. Harris speaking .
GERMAN ACCENT: Yes , hello , Dr. Harris . This is Else Adlam from Dr. Bressler 's office . Dr. Bressler was wondering if you might be able to meet with him today
MARTIN: Yes , hello , this is Dr. Harris . I have a message for Dr. Bressler
GINA: Why here ?
MARTIN: .The zoo . She loves Pola Bears . I never knew exactly why .
GINA: Okay , go . You 're going to be late for your date .
MARTIN: This should n't take long . I just need to see what Bressler wants .
LIZ: Take your time , I want to see the zoo anyway .
BRESSLER: I thought we might have a table for three , in case you still had your alter ego with you .
MARTIN B: No , thank God . I assume he 's safely back in the hospital .
BRESSLER: Well , it 's a lesson . You neve know what people will do . All my work used to be on-line , my e- mails on an open server . A yea ago , someone broke into my office and stole my computer . I believe they were after my research . Luckily , I split my data up and double encrypt it until I put it all together and make it public . That 's why this stays with me until tonight 's over Martin B nods , starts to look at his menu
MARTIN B: I hope you can forgive me . It was something you said
BEAT: .It 's been tormenting me .
BRESSLER: No ! God NO ! You 're focusing on the science , but this .this is history . You open the esearch before it 's finished , the conglomerates gobble it up . In the entire history of human development , name me one time when business has ever acted except in its own self-interest .
MARTIN B: I 'm sorry , it 's my fault . Another appointment I forgot .
BRESSLER: It does n't matter . But see you , you say I am too cautious . It 's an idiot thing to say . I 'm a realist !
MARTIN B: I 'm sorry if I offended you , Dr. Bressler . I just
BRESSLER: Do n't be stupid . You ca n't offend me . We are colleagues , this is good discussion . But please , Dr. Harris Power is an animal , all to itself . It adapts , mutates to whatever form will best preserve it . It 's always closer than we know . ON MARTIN B , extending a hand
MARTIN B: .Perhaps you 're right .
LIZ: What are you doing here ?
MARTIN: Liz . What 's happening ?
LIZ: You 're crazy you have to leave me alone .
MARTIN: Why ? I have to know why , Liz . Are they making you do this ? Are they threatening you ?
LIZ: .How did you find me
MARTIN: The zoo . The Polar Bears .
BEAT: You see ? I KNOW YOU , Liz . You KNOW me
LIZ: I ca n't
MARTIN: You ca n't what ?
LIZ: . ca n't get out . Ca n't leave . They 'll kill me .
MARTIN: Come with me , right now . We can
LIZ: No ! They 'll kill us both !
MARTIN: Who are they ? She shakes her head , tormented .
LIZ: Please . Not now . Not until we 're safe . Then I 'll explain everything , I promise . All I want is for us to get out alive . You have to believe me Urgent look around . Her eyes lock on his .
MARTIN: My case ?
LIZ: Your briefcase . It got left ehind . At the airport . That 's why you were going back there . You need to find it
CLOSE: In an hour , there 's a chance fo me to get away . Meet me at the airport at three o'clock . We can un together
GINA: She 's pretty
THROUGH PHONE: Is that Ernst Jurgen ?
JURGEN: Yes , it is .
COLE: Oh my God that 's unbelievable , the poor man . Well here 's the good news I 've just arrived in Berlin yes , I 've been teaching in Leipzig , at the Hochschule fu Technik . I came up for the last day to hear Bressler 's speech
LISTENS: I 'll come right over , it 's not far No , it 's no problem .
COLE: Herr Jurgen ?
JURGEN: Dr. Cole Please , come on in .
LAUGHING: No , thank you
JURGEN: Maybe some coffee ? I 'm making some for myself .
COLE: I 'm good . Thanks .
JURGEN: The Stasi . In East Germany .
COLE: Wow , wait till I tell my son . He loves all that Cold War stuff . Look at that car . What is that ?
JURGEN: A 'Zil ' . Suspension of a donkey cart and smelt like a tannery . Vanished as quickly as the Wall .
COLE: So . This business with Martin . A hell of a thing . How did he find you ?
JURGEN: Quite by chance , as it happens .
COLE: Sounds like he was damn lucky . So , what can I do to help ?
JURGEN: Come with us to the authorities . Help them confirm his identity .
COLE: The authorities ? Jesus , it 's that bad ? A guy comes to you with a story like that . What made you take the case ?
JURGEN: Curiosity
COLE: Curiosity ? Is that all ?
JURGEN: Professional curiosity . There 's not much in this world left to interest an old spy like me
COLE: You had fifteen minutes after I called . Why did n't you run ?
JURGEN: Where would I run from Section 15 , Mr. Cole ? I can hardly walk .
COLE: I want to know how he found you . I want every number , every source you 've contacted on his behalf .
JURGEN: And then what ? We shake hands and you go away ? Cole reaches a hand inside his jacket
COLE: But we do . The best of us .
JURGEN: Tell me if he remembers everything . What then ?
WOMAN: May I see some identification ? She looks up . Martin 's expression distant
GINA: He does n't have any . He was in an accident , that 's why the bag was unclaimed
MARTIN: The combination . For the lock . It 's 2 8 0 6
GINA: Can you remember now how you felt ?
MARTIN: .Yes . I 'm sorry . Yes . She 's my wife . She 's in danger . I have to
GINA: That 's good . I 'm happy for you . I have to go .
MARTIN: No , wait . I meant what I said . We can take care of you . I can get you money , arrange
FIERCE: Stop . Be quiet . You 've got what you wanted . You do n't need me anymore and in case `` we 've '' forgotten , I take care of myself very well . She starts for the door . Martin getting up
MARTIN: Gina stops , turns . A beat . Sadness , anger .
GINA: One kiss and suddenly Everything that 's happened ? To Biko ? To us ? I know , she 's your wife . Like I said , I 'm an idiot .
BEAT: Goodbye , Martin .
GINA: Wait . There 's another passenger .
MAN: Martin . Martin ? Martin hesitates , turns . Sees
COLE: Jesus , Martin , how are you doing ?
MARTIN: Rodney ? What are you doing here ?
COLE: You called me , remember ? You left a message on my machine .
MARTIN: Yeah but how did you know ?
COLE: Stay one step ahead of me . Any move , I 'll shatter your spine .
MARTIN: What are ?
COLE: Go
GINA: Help me with my bags , please .
COLE: My God she 's right . You 're completely gone . You really think you are Martin Harris .
MARTIN: What the hell Rod ! You 're my oldest friend ! You know who I am . It 's me it 's not that other guy . He 's not
COLE: Martin Harris ? You 're right . He 's not . He 's the guy who took over for you after you went missing .
MARTIN: No That 's insane . Liz , she
COLE: 'Liz ' ? Your `` wife '' ? How do you think she feels about all this ? You two were a good team , then you go and get Norman fucking Rockwell on her .
MARTIN: That 's not she
COLE: they are n't real memories . Do n't you get it ? Martin Harris is a fabrication but you 've one and filled in the caps , invented a whole damn life fo him . They could write a textbook about you ! Jesus !
MARTIN: But I who am I ?
COLE: You . You were my best boy .
MARTIN: Wait ! WAIT !
GINA: Martin He turns , MOVES . She chases after him
MARTIN: . Jurgen we were going to meet I have to see him .
GINA: We 've got to go leave Berlin . We 've got to get out of here !
MARTIN: I have to !
GINA: Martin ?
MARTIN: he told me I 'm one of them the things he said the things he said I 've done How can I be that person ?
GINA: Listen to me . You 're not . You 're not
MARTIN: Thank you .
MARTIN: No
LIZ: Are you ready ?
GINA: The entry stamp in your passport . You were in Berlin three months ago Martin , like a statue . Voice , dead .
MARTIN: Prince Fahad is going to be assassinated today . There 's a omb in the suite . I put it there .
GINA: I 'm not leaving you ! Listen to me Maybe you 're not the man who went into the water . But you are the man I pulled out
THE MONSTER: Look at me . Look at me
SQUEEZING TIGHTER: You should have let me drown
LIZ: Your highness we 're honored you could attend this evening .
FAHAD: The honor is all mine .
FARAD: I do n't think the professor needs an invitation . He is , after all , the reason we are all here .
BRESSLER: Now I can see why somebody would pretend to be Martin .
LIZ: .I did n't realize the girls were coming this evening .
FAHAD: But of course . Lily and Laurel are the real reason any of us put up with Leo at all .
LIZ: Let me take these Bressler hesitates a moment , then lets go
BRESSLER: Separation anxiety . Just leave it there , if you could . He gestures to a sideboard in open sight .
LIZ: Of course
SECURITY GUARD: Where is Herr Strauss ?
LIZ: Checking on your baby again ?
BRESSLER: I ca n't help it .
LIZ: Why do n't you just wear it ? As a nerdy accessory ? Here , turn around .
MARTIN: You 're not listening ! There is a omb , in the Eisenhower Suite . I put it there .
STRAUSS: But is n't that the suite 'you ' are staying in , 'Dr . Harris ' ? Or wait , you 're not Dr .
MARTIN: I 've told you ! There 's no time to explain this
SUDDENLY: I can prove it . Pull up you lobby recordings from August 27 of this year .
SECURITY GUARD: Invitation ?
GINA: Are you serious ? Why do n't you ask the Prince ?
STRAUSS: .What exactly are you hoping to find ? Martin ignores him , his eyes TRACKING .
MARTIN: There ! Stop !
CALLING OUT: Sir ! Your highness ! You 're in danger here . There is a bomb in this room !
QUIET: Do you see ?
STRAUSS: Sound an alarm . Evacuate the hotel . You and-you , you 're with me . We 'll meet the Prince at the loading docks . You , take him downstairs .
LIZ: Stop the timer . I 'll finish it .
BRESSLER: Lily ! Lily !
GINA: Professor ! Over here !
MARTIN: Lily , Laurel The smile dying . Realization
MARTIN: Gina1 Gina ! MARTIN is moving , pressing through crowds .
LOUD: Oh thank God you 're here !
MARTIN: No
LIZ: Oh , and after you 've shot him , point the gun at the Police .
MARTIN: I wo n't do it
LIZ: God you 're weak . The 'Martin ' I knew would n't have been able to go on living like you are .
GINA: Martin ? Martin ? He STARES at her . Tears in his eyes
MARTIN B: Fuck
LIZ: .Hello , Martin .
MARTIN: Do n't . Keep your hands where I can see them . Please
LIZ: You know , working with you it almost was n't work . We were so good You , were so good . At the job . At other things She smiles a little , warming .
MARTIN: Let go of the knife , Liz .
LIZ: 'Liz ? ' Do n't you want to know y real name ? Do n't you still want me ?
MARTIN: Please , just stop , Liz
TV ANCHOR: Less than twenty-four hours afte the failed assassination attempt on the Saudi prince
HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS: applauded the announcement , while the Dow Jones saw agri-business stocks plunge four percent
GINA: Hey Do you know ? What you would have done ?
MUNTZ: `` Adventure is out there ! ''
CROWD: Ooh ! Young Carl leans forward , eyes bulging .
YOUNG CARL: No !
MUNTZ: I promise to capture the beast alive !
YOUNG ELLIE: It 's a beautiful day , winds out of the east at ten knots . Visibility unlimited . Enter the weather in the logbook !
YOUNG CARL: Ow !
YOUNG ELLIE: Hey kid ! !
YOUNG CARL: Ow ! !
YOUNG ELLIE: Thought you might need a little cheerin ' up . I got somethin ' to show ya !
YOUNG CARL: Wow .
CARL: Quite a sight , huh Ellie ? Uhp , mail 's here .
RUSSELL: `` Good afternoon . My name is Russell . And I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54 , Sweatlodge 12 . Are you in need of any assistance today , sir ? ''
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: I could help you cross the street .
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: I could help you cross your yard .
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: I could help you cross your porch ?
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: Well , I got ta help you cross something .
CARL: Uh , no . I 'm doing fine .
RUSSELL: `` Good afternoon . My name is Russell . ''
CARL: Uh kid
RUSSELL: `` And I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54 , Sweatlodge 12 . ''
CARL: Kid . KID ! !
RUSSELL: `` Are you in need of any assistance today Sir ? ''
CARL: Thank you , but I do n't need any help !
RUSSELL: Ow .
RESIGNED: Proceed .
RUSSELL: `` Good afternoon . My- ''
CARL: But skip to the end !
RUSSELL: See these ? These are my Wilderness Explorer badges . You may notice one is missing . It 's my Assisting the Elderly badge . If I get it I will become a Senior Wilderness Explorer !
CARL: So you want to assist an old person ?
RUSSELL: Yep ! Then I will be a Senio Wilderness Explorer ! Carl leans in close to Russell .
CONSPIRATORIALLY: You ever heard of a snipe ?
RUSSELL: Snipe ?
CARL: Bird . Beady eyes . Every night it sneaks in my yard and gobbles my poor azaleas . I 'm elderly and infirm . I ca n't catch it . If only someone could help me
RUSSELL: Me ! Me ! I 'll do it !
CARL: Oh , I do n't know , it 's awfully crafty . You 'd have to clap you hands three times to lure it in .
RUSSELL: I 'll find it , Mr. Fredricksen !
CARL: I think its burrow is two blocks down . If you go past
RUSSELL: Two blocks down ! Got it !
CARL: Bring it back here when you find it !
STRUGGLING: Get away from our mailbox !
CARL: I do n't want you to touch it !
OFFICER EDITH: Sorry Mr. Fredricksen . You do n't seem like a public menace to me . Take this .
CARL: What do I do now , Ellie ?
CARL: Morning gentlemen .
NURSE GEORGE: Good morning , Mr. Fredricksen . You eady to go ?
CARL: Ready as I 'll ever be . Would you do me a favor and take this ?
NURSE GEORGE: Sure . Take all the time you need , sir .
CARL: So long boys ! I 'll send you a postcard from Paradise Falls !
RUSSELL: Hi , Mr. Fredricksen . It 's me , Russell .
CARL: What are you doing out here , kid ?
RUSSELL: I found the snipe and I followed it under your porch , but this snipe had a long tail and looked more like a large mouse .
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: Huh . I 've never been in a floating house before .
CARL: Do n't touch that . You 'll soil it .
RUSSELL: You know , most people take a plane , ut you 're smart because you 'll have all your TV and clocks and stuff . Russell runs over to the steering rig .
CARL: Kid , would you stop with the
RUSSELL: Oh , this makes it go right , and that way 's left .
CARL: Let go of the knock it off ! Russell looks out the window in front of him .
RUSSELL: Hey look , buildings !
CARL: Do n't jerk around so much , kid !
RUSSELL: I know that cloud , it 's a Cumulo Nimbus . Did you know that the Cumulo Nimbus
CARL: Stayed up all night blowing up alloons , for what ?
RUSSELL: warm air goes by cool air , and the airs go by each other and that 's how we get lightning .
CARL: That 's nice , kid .
RUSSELL: Mr. Fredricksen , there 's a big storm coming . It 's starting to get scary . We 're gon na get blown to its ! We 're in big trouble , Mr. Fredricksen !
CARL: What are you doing over there ?
RUSSELL: Look !
CARL: Wha what happened ?
RUSSELL: I steered us . I did ! I steered the house !
CARL: Steered us ?
RUSSELL: After you tied your stuff down you took a nap , so I went ahead and steered us down here .
CARL: Huh ?
RUSSELL: Oh we 're in South America all ight . It was a cinch , with my Wilderness Explorer GPS .
CARL: GP-what ?
RUSSELL: My dad gave it to me . It shows exactly where we are on the planet . With this baby , we 'll never be lost !
CARL: We 'll get you down , find a bus stop . You just tell the man you want to go back to your mother .
RUSSELL: Sure , but I do n't think they have usses in Paradise Falls .
CARL: There . That ought to do it . Here , I 'll give you some change for bus fare .
RUSSELL: Nah , I 'll just use my city bus pass .
CARL: Well , we 're up pretty high . Could take hours to get down .
MUMBLING: that thing wasbuilding o something .
RUSSELL: What was that , Mr. Fredricksen ?
CARL: We ca n't be close to the ground yet .
RUSSELL: Whoah !
CARL: Walk back ! Walk back !
RUSSELL: Okay !
CARL: Where where are we ?
RUSSELL: This does n't look like the city o the jungle , Mr. Fredricksen .
CARL: Do n't worry , Ellie . I got it .
RUSSELL: You mean assist you ?
CARL: Yeah , yeah . Whatever .
RUSSELL: Okay , I 'll climb up !
CARL: Watch it .
RUSSELL: Sorry .
CARL: Now , when you get up there , go ahead and hoist me up ! Got it ? !
RUSSELL: Hey , if I could assist you ove there , would you sign off on my adge ?
CARL: What are you talking about ?
RUSSELL: We could walk your house to the falls !
CARL: Walk it ?
RUSSELL: Yeah , after all , we weigh it down . We could walk it right over there . Like a parade balloon . Carl considers this .
CARL: Now , we 're gon na walk to the falls quickly and quietly , with no rap music or flash-dancing . Russell inspects his surroundings .
DISTRACTED: Uh-huh .
CARL: We have three days , at best , before the helium leaks out of those alloons . And if we 're not at the falls when that happens
RUSSELL: Sand !
CARL: we 're not getting to the falls !
RUSSELL: I found sand !
CARL: Do n't you worry , Ellie . We 'll get our house over there .
RUSSELL: Huh . This is fun already , is n't it ? By the time we get there , you 're gon na feel so assisted Oh , Mr. Fredricksen , if we happen to get separated , use the Wilderness Explorer call . Caw caw , raaar ! !
CARL: Hey , let 's play a game . It 's called `` See who can be quiet the longest . ''
RUSSELL: Cool ! My mom loves that game !
CARL: Darn thing . C'mon , Russell , would you hurry it up ?
RUSSELL: I 'm tiiiired . And my knee hurts .
CARL: Which knee ?
RUSSELL: My elbow hurts and I have to go to the bathroom .
CARL: I asked you about that five minutes ago !
RUSSELL: Well , I did n't have to go then !
CARL: Russell ! If you do n't hurry up , the tigers will eat you .
RUSSELL: There 's no tigers in South America . Russell rolls over to show Carl a badge .
CARL: Oh , for the love of Pete . Go on into the bushes and do your business .
RUSSELL: Okay ! Here , hold my stuff .
CARL: Eugh ! None of my concern ! Beat .
RUSSELL: Huh ? Tracks ? !
REALIZING: Snipe !
RUSSELL: Here , snipe Come on out , snipe . Snipe !
CARL: Oh , did you ?
RUSSELL: Are they tall ?
CARL: Oh yes , they 're very tall .
RUSSELL: Do they have a lot of colors ?
CARL: They do indeed .
RUSSELL: Do they like chocolate ?
CARL: Oh ye- Chocolate ?
RUSSELL: It 's a snipe !
CARL: There 's no such thing as a snipe !
RUSSELL: But you said snipes eat
CARL: Go on , get out of here . Go on ! Shoo !
LAUGHING: Whoah ! Whoah !
CARL: Careful , Russell !
LAUGHING: Hey , look Mr. Fredricksen , it likes me !
CARL: Russell ! The bird grooms Russell .
LAUGHING: No stop , that tickles !
CARL: Get out of here . Go on , git !
RUSSELL: Uh-oh ! No no no no no Kevin , it 's okay . Mr. Fredricksen is nice !
CARL: `` Kevin '' ?
RUSSELL: Yeah , that 's his name I just gave him .
CARL: Hey . Beat it ! Vamoose ! Scram !
RUSSELL: Can we keep him ? Please ? ? I 'll get the food for him , I 'll walk him , I 'll change his newspapers
CARL: No .
RECITING: `` An Explorer is a friend to all , be it plants or fish or tiny mole . ''
CARL: That does n't even rhyme .
RUSSELL: Yeah it does .
CARL: What ? Get down ! You 're not allowed up there !
RUSSELL: Ellie ?
CARL: But I told him no I told you no ! N-O . The bird HISSES at Carl .
VOICE: I can smell you .
CARL: What ? You can smell us ?
VOICE: I can smell you .
CARL: Hey .
RUSSELL: You were talking to a rock . Russell points to another rock shape .
CARL: What ?
RUSSELL: Uh , we 're not allowed to have dogs in my apartment .
CARL: We have your dog ! Wonder who he belongs to ?
RUSSELL: Sit boy .
DUG: Hi there .
CARL: Did that dog just say `` Hi there ? ''
DUG: Oh yes . Carl JUMPS back .
CARL: Uh..wha ?
DUG: My master made me this collar . He is a good and smart master and he made me this collar so that I may talk SQUIRREL ! !
CARL: It 's not possible .
DUG: Oh it is , because my master is smart .
RUSSELL: Cool ! What do these do , boy ?
DUG: Hey would you-
CLICK: -cuerdo con tigo-
CARL: Russell , do n't touch that . It could e radioactive or something .
DUG: I am a great tracker . My pack sent me on a special mission all by myself . Have you seen a bird ? I want to find one and I have been on the scent . I am a great tracker , did I mention that ? BAM ! The bird tackles Dug and HISSES .
CARL: Yes ! Take it ! And on the way , learn how to bark like a real dog !
DUG: Oh I can bark ! Dug BARKS .
RUSSELL: Can we keep him ? Please please please ?
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: But it 's a talking dog !
CARL: It 's just a weird trick o something . Let 's get to the falls .
DUG: Please be my prisoner . Oh please oh please be my prisoner .
GAMMA: Oh , here it is . I picked up the ird 's scent !
BETA: Wait a minute , wait a minute ! What is this ? Chocolate . I smell chocolate .
GAMMA: I 'm getting prunes and denture cream ! Who are they ?
BETA: Ah man , Master will not be pleased . We 'd better tell him someone took the bird , right Alpha ?
ALPHA: No . Soon enough the bird will be ours yet again .
BETA: Hey Alpha , I think there 's something wrong with your collar . You must have bumped it .
GAMMA: Yeah , your voice sounds funny !
ALPHA: Beta . Gamma . Mayhaps you desire to SQUIRREL !
BETA: No no . But maybe Dug would . You might want to ask him .
GAMMA: Yeah , I wonder if he 's found the ird on his very special mission .
ALPHA: Do not mention Dug to me at this time . His fool 's errand will keep him most occupied , most occupied indeed . Ha ha ha . Do you not agree with that which I am saying to you now ?
BETA: Sure , but the second Master finds out you sent Dug out by himself , none of us will get a treat .
ALPHA: You are wise , my trusted Lieutenant .
DUG: Hi Alpha . Hey , your voice sounds funny .
ALPHA: I know , I know ! Have you seen the ird ?
DUG: Why yes , the bird is my prisone now .
GAMMA: Yeah , right .
ALPHA: Impossible ! Where are you ? !
DUG: I am here with the bird and I will ing it back and then you will like me . Oh , got ta go .
RUSSELL: Hey Dug ! Who you talking to ?
BETA: What 's Dug doing ?
GAMMA: Why 's he with that small mailman ?
BETA: Where are they ?
ALPHA: There he is . Come on !
DUG: Oh please oh please oh PLEASE be my prisoner !
RUSSELL: Dug , stop bothering Kevin !
DUG: That man there says I can take the ird and I love that man there like he is my master .
CARL: I am not your master !
DUG: I am warning you , once again , bird !
RUSSELL: Hey ! Quit it !
DUG: I am jumping on you now , bird .
CARL: Russell ! At this rate we 'll neve get to the falls !
DUG: A ball ! Oh boy oh boy ! A ball !
CARL: Ball ? Carl pops off one of the tennis balls .
DUG: Oh oh oh ! Yes , I do . I do ever so want the ball !
CARL: Go get it ! !
DUG: Oh boy , oh boy ! I will get it and then bring it back !
WHISPERS: Quick Russell , give me some chocolate .
RUSSELL: Why ?
CARL: Just give it to me !
RUSSELL: Wait . Wait , Mr. Fredricksen .
CARL: Daah !
RUSSELL: What are we doing ?
CARL: I think that did the trick .
DUG: Hi , Master .
CARL: Afternoon .
RUSSELL: Is this step three , or step five ? Carl ROLLS HIS EYES at Russell 's ineptness .
CARL: Wait , are n't you `` Super Wilderness Guy ? '' With the GPM 's and the badges ?
RUSSELL: Yeah , but can I tell you a secret ?
CARL: No .
RUSSELL: Alright , here goes . I neve actually built a tent before . There . I said it .
CARL: You 've been camping before , have n't you ?
RUSSELL: Well , never outside .
CARL: Well , why did n't you ask your Dad how to build a tent ?
RUSSELL: I do n't think he wants to talk about this stuff .
CARL: Why do n't you try him sometime ? Maybe he 'll surprise you .
RUSSELL: Well , he 's away a lot . I do n't see him much .
CARL: He 's got to be home sometime .
RUSSELL: Well , I called , but Phyllis told me I bug him too much .
CARL: Phyllis ? You call your own mothe y her first name ?
RUSSELL: Phyllis is n't my mom . Carl realizes he put his foot in it .
CARL: Oh .
RUSSELL: But he promised he 'd come to my Explorer ceremony to pin on my Assisting the Elderly badge , so he can show me about tents then , ight ?
CARL: Hey , uh , why do n't you get some sleep . Do n't want to wake up the traveling flea circus .
RUSSELL: Mr. Fredricksen , Dug says he wants to take Kevin prisoner . We have to protect him !
CARL: Alright . He can come .
RUSSELL: Promise you wo n't leave him ?
CARL: Yeah .
RUSSELL: Cross your heart ?
CARL: Cross my heart .
RUSSELL: Where 's Kevin ? He 's wandered off ! Kevin ! Dug , find Kevin !
DUG: Find the bird . Find the bird
RUSSELL: Oh , look ! There he is .
CARL: Hey , that 's my food ! Get off my oof !
DUG: Yeah , get off of his !
CARL: What is it doing ?
DUG: The bird is calling to her babies .
RUSSELL: Her babies ! Kevin 's a girl ?
DUG: Her house is over there in those twisty rocks .
RUSSELL: Wait , Kevin 's just leaving ? But you promised to protect her !
CARL: Sorry Russell . We 've lost enough time already .
RUSSELL: Yeah
CARL: Huh ?
RUSSELL: Kevin ?
ALPHA: Where 's the bird ? You said you had the bird .
DUG: Oh , yes . Oh , yes . Since I have said that , I can see how you would think that .
ALPHA: Where is it ?
DUG: Uh , tomorrow . Come back tomorrow and then I will again have the ird . Yes .
ALPHA: You lost it . Why do I not have a surprised feeling ? Well , at least you now have lead us to the small mailman and The One Who Smells of Prunes .
CARL: Wait , we 're not going with you . We 're going to the falls ! Gamma and Beta BARK fiercely at Carl .
VOICE: You came here in that ?
CARL: Uh yeah .
VOICE: In a house ? A floating house ?
CARL: Wait , are you Charles Muntz ? !
MUNTZ: Well Yes .
CARL: The Charles Muntz ?
MUNTZ: `` Adventure is out there ! ''
CARL: It 's really him ! That 's Charles Muntz !
EXCITED: It is ? ! ?
CONSIDERS: Who 's Charles Muntz ?
CARL: Him !
DOG WALLA: Yes ! It is him ! He is !
CARL: I 'm Carl Fredricksen . My wife and I , we were your biggest fans !
MUNTZ: Well , you 're a man of good taste !
RUSSELL: Uh-huh .
MUNTZ: Attention everyone ! These people are no longer intruders . They are our guests .
DOG WALLA: Follow me ! I like you temporarily . You do smell like prunes . I will not bite you .
CARL: Wow .
MUNTZ: Go ahead and moor your airship ight next to mine .
CARL: We 're not actually going inside the `` Spirit of Adventure '' itself ? !
MUNTZ: Oh . Would you like to ?
CARL: Would I ? ! ? !
BETA: Not you .
GAMMA: What do we do with Dug ?
ALPHA: He has lost the bird . Put him in the Cone of Shame .
DUG: I do not like the Cone of Shame .
MUNTZ: Most of the collection is housed in the world 's top museums New York , Munich , London ` Course I kept the best for myself .
CARL: Did you ever ! Will you look at that ?
MUNTZ: Oh yes , the Arsinoitherium . Beast charged while I was brushing my teeth . Used my shaving kit to ing him down .
CARL: Oh my gosh , the Giant Somalian Leopard Tortoise !
MUNTZ: Oh , you recognize it ? I 'm impressed ! That 's an interesting story there
ALPHA: Master , dinner is ready .
MUNTZ: Oh dear , broken translator . It 's that loose wire again . There you go big fella .
ALPHA: Thank you Master . Russell reacts .
RUSSELL: I liked his other voice . Muntz LAUGHS .
MUNTZ: Well , dinner is served ! Right this way .
RUSSELL: Yes ! !
CARL: Oh my Ellie would have loved all this . You know , it 's because of you she had this dream to come down here and live by Paradise Falls .
MUNTZ: I 'm honored . And now you 've made it !
CARL: You 're sure we 're not a bother ? I 'd hate to impose .
MUNTZ: No no ! It 's a pleasure to have guests a real treat .
DOG WALLA: Treat ? ! Treat ! I want a treat !
MUNTZ: No no , quiet ! Calm down . Calm down
RUSSELL: Hey !
CONT'D: Shouldn't 've used that word Having guests is a delight . More often I get thieves , come to steal what 's rightfully mine .
CARL: No !
MUNTZ: They called me a fraud , those dah ! But once I bring back this creature , my name will be cleared .
MUNTZ: And here they come , these bandits , and think the bird is theirs to take ! But they soon find that this mountain is a very dangerous place .
RUSSELL: Hey , that looks like Kevin !
MUNTZ: `` Kevin ? ''
RUSSELL: Yeah ! That 's my new giant bird pet . I trained it to follow us .
MUNTZ: Follow you ? Impossible . How ?
RUSSELL: She likes chocolate .
MUNTZ: Chocolate ?
RUSSELL: Yeah , I gave her some of my chocolate . She goes ga-ga for it .
CARL: But it ran off ! It 's gone now .
MUNTZ: You know , Carl . These people who pass through here , they all tell pretty good stories . A `` Surveyor '' making a map .
CARL: Well ! It 's been a wonderful evening , but we 'd better be going .
MUNTZ: Oh , you 're not leaving ?
CARL: We do n't want to take advantage of your hospitality . Come on Russell .
RUSSELL: But we have n't even had dessert yet .
MUNTZ: No , the boy 's right . You have n't had dessert . Epsilon here makes a delicious Cherries Jubilee .
RUSSELL: Kevin ?
MUNTZ: It 's here . He turns back to Carl but they 're gone .
CARL: Hurry !
RUSSELL: I am hurrying !
DUG: Go toward the light , master !
CARL: Russell !
DUG: Go on Master ! I will stop the dogs !
RUSSELL: Help ! Help !
CARL: Gim me your hand !
RUSSELL: Hang on to Kevin !
CARL: Alright . But we 've got to hurry .
MUNTZ: You lost them ?
BETA: Uh , it was Dug .
GAMMA: Yeah , he 's with them . He helped them escape !
MUNTZ: Wait . Wait a minute . Dug
CARL: See anything ?
DUG: No , my pack is not following us ! Boy they are dumb .
CARL: This is crazy . I finally meet my childhood hero and he 's trying to kill us ! What a joke .
DUG: Hey , I know a joke . A squirrel walks up to a tree and says I forgot to store acorns for winte and now I am dead . Ha ! It is funny ecause the squirrel gets dead .
CARL: Careful Russell .
RUSSELL: You okay , Kevin ?
CARL: Yeah ? How so ?
RUSSELL: It 's kinda wild . I mean , it 's not how they made it sound in my ook .
CARL: Hmm , get used to that , kid .
RUSSELL: My dad made it sound so easy . He 's eally good at camping , and how to make fire from rocks and stuff . He used to come to all my Sweatlodge meetings .
CARL: Hold on Russell , stand still !
RUSSELL: That 's it , go Kevin ! Go find you abies !
CARL: Russell , give me your knife !
RUSSELL: No ! Carl pulls his house away from the flames .
MUNTZ: Careful . We want her in good shape for my return .
RUSSELL: Let her go ! Stop !
CARL: This is none of my concern . I did n't ask for any of this !
DUG: Master . It 's alright .
CARL: I am not your master ! And if you had n't a shown up , none of this would have happened ! Bad dog ! Bad dog !
RUSSELL: I do n't want this anymore .
LOVE, ELLIE.": Carl smiles .
CARL: Russell ?
RUSSELL: I 'm gon na help Kevin even if you wo n't !
CARL: No , Russell ! No !
DUG: I was hiding under your porch ecause I love you . Can I stay ?
CARL: Can you stay ? Well , you 're my dog are n't you ? And I 'm your master !
DUG: You are my master ? !
RUSSELL: Ooph !
MUNTZ: And they would n't believe me . Just wait till they get a look at you .
ALPHA: Master ! The small mailman has eturned .
MUNTZ: What ?
RUSSELL: Let me go !
MUNTZ: Where 's your elderly friend ?
RUSSELL: He 's not my friend anymore .
MUNTZ: Well , if you 're here , Fredricksen ca n't be far behind .
RUSSELL: Where are you keeping Kevin ! ?
BETA: Scream all you want , small mailman .
GAMMA: None of your mailman friends can hear you .
RUSSELL: I 'll unleash all my Wilderness Explorer training !
MUNTZ: Alpha ! Fredricksen 's coming back . Guard that bird . If you see the old man , you know what to do .
RUSSELL: Hey , where are you going ? I 'm not finished with you !
MUNTZ: Nice talking with you .
CARL: Russell ! Carl steers his house to the dirigible .
RUSSELL: Mr. Fredricksen !
CARL: Dug ! Bring ` er over !
RUSSELL: You came back for Kevin ! Let 's go get her .
CARL: I 'm getting Kevin . You stay here !
RUSSELL: But I want to help !
CARL: I do n't want your help . I want you safe !
DUG: Uh POINT ! Dug points to a grate in the wall .
CARL: Kevin !
ALPHA: Allow no one to be entering through these doors . Guard well that bird , my minions .
WHISPERS: What do we do now , Dug ?
CARL: Who wants the ball ?
DOGS: Me ! I do ! I want the ball !
CARL: Then go get it !
DOGS: I 'm gon na get there first ! Oh gon na get the ball ! I 'm gon na get it !
GAMMA: I got it ! !
CARL: I 'm sorry Kevin . Let 's get you out of here .
DOG WALLA: Master ! He 's gone ! The old man ! He 's here ! He 's got the bird ! The ird 's gone !
MUNTZ: What ? Calm down ! One at a time !
RUSSELL: I want to help ! He manages to get his arms free .
DOG WALLA: He 's in Hall D ! He 's in Hall B ! It 's the old man !
MUNTZ: Does anyone know where they are ? ! ? !
RUSSELL: Whoooaaah !
MUNTZ: Grey leader ! Take down the house !
BETA: Grey leader , checking in .
GAMMA: Grey 2 , checking in .
OMEGA: Grey 3 , checking in .
BETA: Target sighted .
CARL: Come on , Kevin .
DUG: Hi .
MUNTZ: Any last words , Fredricksen ? Come on , spit it out !
CARL: Come on !
MUNTZ: Enough ! I 'm taking that bird back with me alive or dead !
CARL: Come on , Kevin !
ALPHA: I will have many enjoyments fo what I am about to do , Dug .
MISC DOG: He wears the Cone of Shame !
ALPHA: What ? Do not just continue sitting ! Attack !
DUG: Listen you dog ! Sit !
DOG WALLA: Yes , Alpha .
DUG: Alpha ? I am not Alpha , he is-
REALIZING: Oohhhh !
RUSSELL: I ca n't do it !
CARL: Russell !
RUSSELL: Huh ?
GAMMA: Squirrel ?
OMEGA: Where 's the squirrel ? !
GAMMA: I hate squirrels .
CARL: Dug ! Dug jumps up on Carl , licking his face .
DUG: Master !
CARL: Russell ! ! Over here ! ! Let 's go !
RUSSELL: Mr. Fredricksen !
CARL: Come on , Kevin !
RUSSELL: That was cool !
CARL: Do n't jerk around so much , kid !
DUG: Oh I am ready to not be up high .
RUSSELL: Sorry about your house , Mr. Fredricksen .
CARL: You know , it 's just a house .
RUSSELL: Look at you . You 're so soft .
CARL: Huh , where 's my cane ? I just had it here
RUSSELL: Bye Kevin !
CARL: Ready !
RUSSELL: Wow .
CARL: Red one .
DUG: Grey one .
CARL: Red one .
RUSSELL: That 's a bike !
CARL: It 's red , is n't it ?
RUSSELL: Mr. Fredricksen , you 're cheating .
CARL: No , I 'm not . Red one .
RUSSELL: That 's a fire hydrant .
CARL: Maybe I need new glasses .
RYAN: How much does your life weigh ?
SAME DELIVERY: Do you want the cancer ?
RYAN: Oh No . Um , no thank you .
STEVE: Who the fuck are you ?
RYAN: This is not an assessment of you productivity . It 's important not to personalize this .
STEVE: Oh , I 'm sure it 's going be really helpful .
RYAN: Take the day . Put together you personal things . Talk to your co- workers . Tomorrow , go out and get some exercise . Go for a jog . Give yourself routines and pretty soon you 'll find your legs .
STEVE: Wait , how do I get in touch with you ?
RYAN: Do n't worry . We 'll be in touch soon . This is just the beginning .
CHECKOUT GIRL: Do you have your Hilton Honors Card with you ?
AIRPORT CLERK: Pleasure to see you again , Mr. Bingham .
KEVIN: Ryan Bingham 's office .
RYAN: You have me in a Dodge Stratus in Kansas City .
KEVIN: They are completely out of all full sized sedans
RYAN: Did you ?
KEVIN: Yes , I reminded them of you emarkable # 1 Gold Club status and years in the program . They are moving mountains to see you in a Sebring .
RYAN: Fair enough . Any other messages ?
KEVIN: Your sister Kara called . Needs to speak urgently about your sister 's wedding . I told her you were midai and not even I knew your final destination .
RYAN: Well done .
KEVIN: And you got an invitation to speak at GoalQuest in Vegas .
RYAN: GoalQuest twenty ?
KEVIN: It 's got a hologram . They 're calling it Dos Equis . That 's some pretty major Tony Robbins shit there .
RYAN: Talk about burying the lead .
EXHALES: I 'll check in when
KEVIN: Hold on , I have Craig Gregory fo you
RYAN: I ah , fuck
CRAIG GREGORY: How 's the road warrior ?
RYAN: Twenty minutes from boarding into a world of bliss .
CRAIG GREGORY: Great numbers out of Phoenix . You know Big Auto is going to drop another 10K this month .
RYAN: No kidding ?
CRAIG GREGORY: Yeah , Christmas came early . Wish I could have you in five places at once . I need you back in Omaha by the end of the week .
RYAN: I thought you needed me everywhere .
CRAIG GREGORY: I 'm thinking of planting seeds ight now .
RYAN: What are we talking about here ?
CRAIG GREGORY: You 'll see .
CHANGES DIRECTIONS: Today , I took my first crap in two weeks . Hallelujah .
RYAN: That 's me , hanging up on you .
CRAIG GREGORY: Good . I love that sound .
RYAN: Hello ?
KARA: How are you holding up ?
RYAN: Just fine . You ? The kids ?
KARA: Missy 's outstanding . Matthew made varsity . How 's the road ?
RYAN: Could n't be better .
KARA: That 's good . So , Ryan ?
RYAN: Yeah ?
KARA: I did n't even want to have to ask you for this , because I know how you are about doing things for others
RYAN: Yeah .
KARA: We 've been sending people these kits so they can print out photos of Julie and Jim on cardboard , and take photos of them in interesting places kind of like that gnome in the French movie .
RYAN: Why ?
KARA: Because it 's Julie 's wedding and she thinks it 's fun . Does it matter why ?
RYAN: How is Julie ?
KARA: Would you call her ? She thinks you 've turned to butter - Disappeared . You 're awfully isolated , the way you live .
RYAN: Isolated ? I 'm surrounded .
KARA: Your assistant told me you 're going to be in Vegas .
RYAN: Did he ?
KARA: Can you get a photo of the cut-out in front of the Luxor Pyramid ?
RYAN: That place is a shit hole . No one stays there .
KARA: Jesus , Ryan , I 'm not asking you to check in . Can you just take a stupid photo ?
RYAN: I 'm going to try my best .
KARA: Well , thank you for trying your best .
RYAN: You 're satisfied with Maestro ?
ALEX: Yeah , I am .
RYAN: They 're stingy with their miles . I like Hertz .
ALEX: Hertz keeps its vehicles too long . If a car 's over twenty-thousand miles , I wo n't drive it .
RYAN: Maestro does n't instant check out . I like to park and go .
ALEX: Hertz does n't guarantee Navigation .
RYAN: Funny , you do n't seem like a girl who needs directions .
ALEX: I hate asking for directions . That 's why I get a Nav .
RYAN: The new outfit , Colonial , is n't bad .
ALEX: Is that a joke ?
RYAN: Yes .
ALEX: Their kiosk placement is a joke .
RYAN: Never have available upgrades .
ALEX: It 's basically a fleet of shit oxes - Do n't know how they 're still in business .
RYAN: I 'm Ryan .
ALEX: Alex .
RYAN: So are you going to join me ?
ALEX: Hilton offers equal value and etter food - But the Maplewood gives out warm cookies at check in .
RYAN: They got you with the cookies ?
ALEX: I 'm a sucker for simulated hospitality .
RYAN: There 's actually an industry term for that . It 's a mixture of faux and homey . It 's faumey .
ALEX: Oh my God . I 've heard about these , ut never seen one in person . Is this a ?
RYAN: Concierge Key . Yeah .
ALEX: I love the weight .
RYAN: Graphite . I was pretty excited the day that puppy came in .
ALEX: I 'll say . I put up pretty pedestrian numbers . Sixty thou a year , domestic .
RYAN: That 's not bad .
ALEX: Do n't patronize me . What 's your total ?
RYAN: That 's a personal question .
ALEX: Oh please
RYAN: I hardly know you .
ALEX: Show some hubris . Impress me .
SUGGESTIVE: I bet it 's huge .
RYAN: You have no idea .
ALEX: Come on ( holds her hands eight
INCHES APART: Is it this big ? this big ?
RYAN: Let 's just say I 've got a number in mind and I have n't hit it yet .
ALEX: This is pretty fucking sexy .
RYAN: I hope it does n't cheapen ou elationship .
ALEX: We 're two people who get turned on y elite status . We may have to settle for cheap .
RYAN: There 's nothing cheap about loyalty .
ALEX: We can always use that room with the ice machine .
RYAN: Good call on the towel rack .
ALEX: Thanks . I liked how you burritoed me in the sofa cushions .
RYAN: I was improvising .
ALEX: Too bad we did n't make it to the closet .
RYAN: We got to do this again .
ALEX: Any Southwest ? I 'm swinging through Albuquerque the week of the 16th ?
RYAN: No , but I 'll be in Florida by the 20th .
ALEX: Miami ?
RYAN: Ft. Lauderdale .
ALEX: That 's nothing .
RYAN: Forty minutes .
ALEX: I should probably go back to my oom so I can wake up in my bed .
RYAN: I think that 's the lady like thing to do .
NOSEY NEIGHBOR: Ryan ?
RYAN: Hi
NOSEY NEIGHBOR: Feels like it 's been months , busy man . We missed you at our Summer party .
RYAN: Yeah , sorry I could n't be there .
NOSEY NEIGHBOR: We 've been trying to get a vote on the new landscaping . Can I e-mail you the plans ? We 'd love to get a final tally .
RYAN: It 's fine . Really . I 'll go with the majority .
NOSEY NEIGHBOR: Sometimes I forget that you even live here . You could probably save money and move into a hotel .
RYAN: I looked into it , but the IRS equires a permanent address fo employment . Otherwise , they classify you as a vagrant .
NOSEY NEIGHBOR: Oh .
WOMAN'S VOICE: Hey neighbor .
RYAN: Hey yourself .
DIANNE: I signed for this while you were gone .
RYAN: Thanks . Hope it was n't a bother .
DIANNE: They seem happy .
RYAN: It 's my sister . She 's getting married . Have n't met the guy yet .
DIANNE: Lots of luck .
RYAN: I know , right ?
DIANNE: It 's good to see you . Feels like a while this time .
RYAN: Hey , you want to come over tonight ?
DIANNE: Actually , I kind of started seeing somebody .
RYAN: Oh , that 's that 's great .
DIANNE: Yeah , we 're having drinks tonight if you want to come over .
RYAN: That 's okay I ' think I 'll settle in .
CRAIG GREGORY: Just thrilled to have everyone under one roof . Welcome home boys .
MORE: 25 .
NATALIE: If there 's one word I want to leave you with today , it 's this
MORE: 26 .
ASIDE: Sorry , Ned . I 'm sure H.R . will hire you back this afternoon .
NED: I do n't understand . I 'm fired ?
NATALIE: Hearing the words `` You 've been let go '' is never easy . Change is always scary . But consider the following - Anybody who ever built an empire , or changed the world , sat where you are now . And it 's because they sat there that they were able to do it .
RYAN: That 's my fucking line .
NED: Well , what happens now ?
NATALIE: This is the first step of a process that will end with you in a new jo that fulfills you .
NED: Yeah , but , how does it work ?
NATALIE: I want you to take that packet in front of you .
NED: I understand .
NATALIE: Have a good day , Mr. Laskin and good luck with your future .
NED: Thank you .
NATALIE: Give it up for Ned .
RYAN: Tell me you 're not taking this seriously .
CRAIG GREGORY: Yeah , that 's why we brought the entire company in from the road - Because we 're not taking this seriously .
RYAN: It does n't make any sense . It 's
SEARCHING: completely impersonal .
CRAIG GREGORY: Who am I even talking to ?
RYAN: There 's a methodology to what I do . A reason why it works .
CRAIG GREGORY: Ryan , Coke and IBM have been doing it for years . Just like anything , there 's a few months of transition , ut everyone settles in .
RYAN: Who are you taking off the road ?
CRAIG GREGORY: You do n't get it . You 're grounded , Ryan . Everyone is . It 's done .
RYAN: Okay , what we do here is brutal and leaves people devastated , but there 's a dignity to the way I do it .
CRAIG GREGORY: Stabbing people in the chest instead of the back ?
NATALIE: You wanted to see me ?
RYAN: Yeah , why do n't you come in .
CRAIG GREGORY: Great job in there , Nat .
NATALIE: Thank you . How 's everyone taking it ?
RYAN: Look , I appreciate your zeal . And you have some good ideas . But you know nothing of the realities of my job . Sure , you can set up an iChat ut you do n't know how people think .
NATALIE: Actually , I minored in psychology .
CRAIG GREGORY: Nice .
RYAN: Okay kiddo , fire me .
CRAIG GREGORY: Ryan , stop it .
RYAN: She 's going to be doing this on a egular basis . You do n't want to know if she can fire somebody ?
CRAIG GREGORY: She just fired Ned .
RYAN: My dog could fire Ned .
TO NATALIE: Fire me .
CRAIG GREGORY: Ryan .
NATALIE: It 's okay , I got this .
RYAN: Who the hell are you ?
NATALIE: My name is Miss Keener and I 'm here today to discuss your future .
RYAN: My future ? I do n't know you . The only person who can fire me is Craig Gregory .
NATALIE: Mr. Gregory hired me to handle this for him .
RYAN: Handle what ? Handle me ? Mr. Gregory hired me and he 's the only one who can fire me . I 'm going to talk to him .
NATALIE: Mr. Bingham
RYAN: You ca n't follow me You 're on a computer screen . Remember ?
NATALIE: Ryan
RYAN: Try again . Fire me .
NATALIE: I just did .
RYAN: Actually , you did n't . Now , fire me .
CRAIG GREGORY: Stop it , Ryan .
NATALIE: Mr. Bingham , I 'm here today to inform you that your position is no longer available .
RYAN: I 'm fired ?
NATALIE: Yes , you 're fired .
RYAN: Never say fired .
NATALIE: You 've been let go .
RYAN: Why ?
NATALIE: This is a mythical situation . How could I possibly know why ?
RYAN: You never know why . Why does n't matter .
NATALIE: It 's important not to focus on the `` why '' and rather to spend you energy thinking about your future .
RYAN: I 'm going to spend my energy on suing you if you do n't give me a eason that you 're firing me .
NATALIE: Mr. Bingham , the reason is not important .
RYAN: Oh , so you 're firing me without grounds .
TO CRAIG: Now , I really have a lawsuit .
CRAIG GREGORY: Ryan , I think we know what you 're trying to say
NATALIE: Do n't take this personally , Mr. Bingham .
RYAN: Personally ? This is the most personal situation you will ever enter . So before you try to revolutionize my business , I 'd like to know that you actually know my business .
CRAIG GREGORY: Hell-of-a-way to welcome her to the team .
RYAN: Am I the only one who sees that by automating our own business , we 're making ourselves irrelevant .
CRAIG GREGORY: No We 're making you irrelevant .
A BEAT: Watch yourself , Ryan . You 're too young to be a dinosaur
RYAN: I 'm not I 'm not a dinosaur .
CRAIG GREGORY: I want you to show her the ropes .
RYAN: What do I know about what happens around here ? Have Ferguson do it .
CRAIG GREGORY: I 'm not talking about here .
RYAN: No .
CRAIG GREGORY: Hey , you seem pretty confident that this girl does n't know what she 's doing
RYAN: Excuse me . I just do n't think a MySpace page qualifies you to ewire an entire company .
CRAIG GREGORY: Great . Well , here 's your chance . Show her the magic . Take he through the paces .
RYAN: I 'm not a fucking tour guide .
CRAIG GREGORY: This is the boat .
RYAN: Yes . Alone .
CRAIG GREGORY: Ryan , we 're ringing the bell . Rounding everybody up . If you want to stay out there a little longer , you can . But you 're not going to be on your own . Let me know .
RYAN: Huh .
NATALIE: What ?
RYAN: That 's exactly what it is . Luggage . You know how much time you lose by checking in ?
NATALIE: I do n't know , maybe five minutes waiting for
RYAN: Thirty five minutes per flight . I travel two hundred seventy days a year . That makes one hundred fifty seven hours That 's Seven Days . You ready to throw away a whole week on that ?
NATALIE: You ca n't be serious .
RYAN: Never get behind people travelling with infants . I 've never seen a stroller collapse in less than twenty minutes .
NATALIE: That 's racist .
RYAN: I 'm like my mother . I stereotype . It 's faster .
NATALIE: No . Why ?
RYAN: Fats Domino had a lighter touch .
NATALIE: I type with purpose .
RYAN: What are you working on so furiously ?
NATALIE: I 'm building a work flow of firing techniques . Questions & responses . Actions & reactions . A script that works kind of like a tributary , taking you through the steps of firing someone .
RYAN: Who is it for ?
NATALIE: Theoretically , you could put it in the hands of anybody and they could e downsizing immediately . All they have to do is follow the steps .
RYAN: Natalie , what is it , you think we do here ?
NATALIE: We prepare the newly unemployed fo the emotional and physical hurdles of job hunting while Minimizing potential legal blowback ?
RYAN: That 's what we 're selling . But it 's not what we 're doing .
NATALIE: Okay , what are we doing ?
RYAN: Our job is to make limbo tolerable - To ferry wounded souls across the iver of dread and humiliation to the point at which hope 's bright shore is dimly visible
FRANKLY: And then to stop the boat , shove'em in the water , and make them swim while we row back to the palace of their banishment to present the employers with our bills .
NATALIE: That was really impressive . You ehearse that ?
RYAN: I got to grab this . I 'll meet you at the rental lot .
ALEX: I 'm in Hotlanta . I need a rib joint ecommend bad .
RYAN: Fat Matt 's . Bring a bib .
ALEX: You have n't called .
RYAN: You know , I did n't know what was appropriate
ALEX: Ryan , I 'm not some waitress you anged in a snow storm . The word `` Appropriate '' has no place in ou collective vocabulary . I 'm the woman you do n't have to worry about .
RYAN: This sounds like a trick .
ALEX: Next time you 're worried about manners - Do n't . If you want to call - Call . Just think of me as yourself only with a vagina .
RYAN: When am I going to see you ?
ALEX: I 'm out of Hartsfield , into IAD , then a connection at ORD into SDF .
RYAN: Oh sorry .
ALEX: Tell me about it .
RYAN: How long is your layover in O'Hare ? They 've got multiples into SDF Think you could push ?
ALEX: I can push .
RYAN: Ryan Bingham , from CTC .
NATALIE: You ever find it strange that termination comes with a packet .
RYAN: Everything important in life comes with a packet .
MORE: 42 .
RYAN: Fill out the skill set work sheet Use the hopes and dreams diagram And the tree of aspirations .
ANOTHER PERSON: The answers
BOB: And what do you suggest I tell them ?
NATALIE: Perhaps you 're underestimating the positive effect your career transition may have on your children .
BOB: Positive effect ?
NATALIE: Well , tests have shown that children under moderate trauma have a tendency to apply themselves academically as a method of coping .
BOB: Go fuck yourself . That 's what my kids 'll think .
RYAN: Your children 's admiration is important to you ?
BOB: Yeah . It was .
RYAN: Well , I doubt they ever admired you , Bob .
BOB: Hey asshole , are n't you here to console me ?
RYAN: I 'm not a shrink , Bob . I 'm a wake up call . You know why kids love athletes ?
BOB: Because they screw lingerie models .
RYAN: No , that 's why we love athletes . Kids love them because they follow their dreams .
BOB: Yeah , well I ca n't dunk .
RYAN: But you can cook .
BOB: What are you talking about ?
RYAN: Your resume says you minored in French Culinary Arts . Most students work the frier at KFC . You bussed tables at Il Picatorre to support yourself . Then you got out of college and started working here . How much did they first pay you to give up on your dreams ?
BOB: Twenty seven thousand a year .
RYAN: At what point were you going to stop and go back to what made you happy ?
BOB: Fate ?
RYAN: Yeah . You know , the mysterious ways in which we wind up doing the things we were meant to do .
BOB: I met my wife at a gas station .
RYAN: Exactly . Well , I think fate is telling you to do something , Bob .
MORE: 45 .
BUSINESS WOMAN: I 've been waiting ten minutes . He just waltzes in and gets to cut in line .
DESK CLERK: We reserve priority assistance fo our Hilton Honors members .
RYAN: You should look into it - The promotions are great
BUSINESS WOMAN: Fuck off .
RYAN: You okay ?
NATALIE: Yeah . Fine .
RYAN: Our expense account allots for forty dollars each on dinner . I plan on grabbing every mile I can .
NATALIE: Okay , you got to fill me in on this mile usiness . What 's that all about ? Are you talking like frequent flier miles ?
RYAN: Your really want to know ?
NATALIE: I 'm dying to know .
RYAN: I do n't spend a nickel , if I can help it , unless it somehow profits my mileage account . I 'm not talking hotel rooms and rental cars either , ut internet services , cell phone , music downloads , teleflorists . The works . I shop them according to the miles they pay and I pit them against each other for the most value .
NATALIE: So , what are you saving up for ? Hawaii ? South of France ?
RYAN: No , it 's not like that The miles are the goal .
NATALIE: That 's it ? You 're saving to save ?
RYAN: Let 's just say I 've got a number in mind and have n't hit it yet .
NATALIE: Wow . Seems a little abstract . What 's your target ?
RYAN: I 'd rather not .
NATALIE: It 's a secret target ?
RYAN: It 's ten million miles .
NATALIE: Huh . Is n't ten million just a number ?
RYAN: Pi is just a number .
NATALIE: I guess we all need a hobby .
RYAN: I 'd be the seventh person to do it . More people have walked on the moon .
NATALIE: Do they give you a parade or something ?
RYAN: Lifetime Exec Platinum status . You get to meet the Chief Pilot , Maynard Finch . And They put you name on the side of a plane .
NATALIE: Men get such a hard-on from putting their name on stuff You guys do n't grow up - You just need to pee on everything .
RYAN: Now , who 's stereotyping ?
NANCY: Fear of mortality . It 's like Yes , you 're going to die one day .
RYAN: And why do you suppose that 's singula to men ?
NATALIE: Probably cause you ca n't have babies .
RYAN: Thanks for the advice .
NATALIE: Left , left , left , left one more inch and stop .
RYAN: My sister is cooky . She thinks this is charming Like the gnome thing .
NATALIE: No , I mean why would your siste want a fake photo in front of the St. Louis Airport ?
RYAN: She should be so lucky to visit Lambert Field . The Wright Brothers flew through there ( points out the conical
MAIN TERMINAL: The domed main terminal was the first of its kind . A precursor to everything from JFK to DeGualle .
NATALIE: Wow . Pretty sweet .
RYAN: Why she wants dozens of reminders of all the places she has n't been is beyond me .
NATALIE: Well , I 'm sure she 's going to be crushed for having missed this airport .
RYAN: Look - Before Lindbergh could cross the Atlantic , he took off from one of those runways Ever wondered why they call it the Spirit of St. Louis ?
NATALIE: No .
MORE: 51 .
RYAN: Sometimes , they just need to vent .
NATALIE: Please , for the love of God , can I fire the next one ?
KAREN: I 'm here to be fired , right ?
NATALIE: We 're here to talk about your future .
KAREN: You do n't have to sugar coat it . I get the drill . What are they offering ?
NATALIE: Inside the packet you 'll find a clearly worked out severance package .
KAREN: Give me the bullet points .
NATALIE: Three months pay . Six months medical . A full year of placement services through our company , CTC .
KAREN: Placement services ? How generous .
NATALIE: Commonly , it takes one month of searching for every ten thousand dollars you expect to earn in salary .
KAREN: So I could be looking for a while .
NATALIE: Not necessarily
KAREN: Oh , do n't sweat it . I 'm pretty confident about my plans .
NATALIE: Oh yeah ?
KAREN: Yeah . Can you tell me ? Is high tide in the morning or the evening ?
NATALIE: I do n't know . Why ?
KAREN: There 's this beautiful bridge by my apartment . I need to figure out what time to jump off it .
RYAN: People say these things all the time . It comes with the trade .
NATALIE: They do ?
RYAN: Sure . People are always saying crazy stuff . They get worked up .
NATALIE: She was so calm .
RYAN: I think that 's a good sign .
NATALIE: So they do n't actually ever do it ?
RYAN: No it 's just talk .
NATALIE: How do you know ? Do you follow up ?
RYAN: I mean , no , nothing good can come of that , but I do n't think you should worry about it .
NATALIE: I 'll be back soon . Not really sure how long this whole exercise is supposed to last . He 's fine It 's hard for these guys to accept change , you know . I I 'm not even going to answe that No , I ca n't even think of him that way He 's old .
RYAN: Okay . This is where it gets a little difficult , but stay with me . You have a new backpack but this time , I want you to fill it with people . Start with casual acquaintances , people around the office , friends of friends and work your way to the people you trust with your most intimate secrets . Now move into family members - cousins , aunts , and uncles . Get your sisters and your brothers and you parents . Get them all in that ackpack . And finally your husband or wife or boyfriend or girlfriend . Get them in their too .
NATALIE: Never ?
RYAN: Is that so bizarre ?
NATALIE: Yes . Yes it is .
RYAN: I do n't see the value .
NATALIE: What ?
RYAN: Sell me marriage .
NATALIE: I Uh How how about love ?
RYAN: Pff
NATALIE: Okay . Stability ?
RYAN: How many stabile marriages do you know ?
NATALIE: Someone to talk to , spend your life with ?
RYAN: I 'm surrounded by people to talk to . I doubt that will change .
NATALIE: How about just not dying alone ?
RYAN: Starting when I was twelve , we moved each one of my grandparents into a nursing facility . My parents went the same way .
A BEAT: Make no mistake . We all die alone .
ADDING: Those cult members down in San Diego with the white sneakers and little Dixie cups of Kool-Aid . They did n't die alone .
RYAN: Oh fuck .
NATALIE: Brian left me .
RYAN: Oh , hey I
ALEX: I should give you both a moment .
NATALIE: No , it 's fine . I 'm fine . Just stupid emotions .
ALEX: Maybe a drink ?
NATALIE: Now we 're talking .
ALEX: He broke up with you over text message ?
RYAN: That 's kind of like firing people over the internet .
ALEX: What a weasely prick .
NATALIE: Yeah , but what does that make me ? Someone who falls for a prick ?
ALEX: We all fall for them . Pricks are spontaneous , unpredictable , and fun . And then we 're surprised when they turn out to be pricks .
NATALIE: I followed him to Omaha .
RYAN: You did ?
NATALIE: I had a job waiting for me in San Fran , when he got an offer from ConAgra . He told me we could start a life together . So I followed him .
RYAN: To Nebraska .
NATALIE: I look in the mirror and I just see compromise I 'm supposed to do something .
ALEX: You 'll do plenty .
NATALIE: I just ca n't I thought I 'd be engaged by now .
CATCHES HERSELF: No offense .
ALEX RYAN: It 's alright . None taken .
NATALIE: When I was sixteen , I thought by twenty three , I would be married , maybe have a kid Corner office y day , entertaining at night . I was supposed to be driving a Grand Cherokee by now .
ALEX: Life can underwhelm you that way .
NATALIE: Now I have my sights on twenty nine , because thirty is just way too apocalyptic . I mean , where did you think you 'd be by
ALEX: It does n't work that way .
RYAN: At a certain point , you stop with the deadlines .
ALEX: They can be a little counterproductive .
NATALIE: I do n't want to say anything that 's anti-feminist . I mean , I eally appreciate everything you generation did for me .
ALEX: It was our pleasure .
RYAN: Well done .
NATALIE: But sometimes it feels like no matter how much success I have , it all wo n't matter until I find the ight guy .
ALEX: You really thought this guy was the one .
NATALIE: Yeah , I guess . I do n't know . I could have made it work . He just eally fit the bill .
RYAN: The bill ?
NATALIE: My type . You know , white collar . College grad . Loves dogs . Likes funny movies . Six foot one . Brown hair . Kind eyes . Works in finance but is Outdoorsy , you know , on the weekends . I always imagined he 'd have a single syllable name like Matt o John or Dave . In a perfect world , he drives a Four Runner and the only thing he loves more than me is his golden lab . Oh and a nice smile . How about you ?
RYAN: I 'm not sure if
NATALIE: I meant Alex
RYAN: Right .
ALEX: Huh , let me think for a sec . Well , by the time you 're thirty four , all the physical requirements are pretty much out the window . I mean you secretly prey he 'll be taller than you .
THINKING: Wants kids Likes kids
MORE: 62 .
REACHING: Hopefully some hair on his head ? But it 's not exactly a deal-breake anymore . Nice smile Yep , a nice smile just might do it .
NATALIE: Wow . That was depressing .
ALEX: Tried it . We 're no picnic ourselves .
NATALIE: I do n't mind being married to my career , and I do n't expect it to hold me in bed as I fall asleep .
LOOKS UP: I just do n't want to settle .
ALEX: You 're young . Right now you see settling as some sort of failure .
NATALIE: It is . By definition .
ALEX: Do n't worry , by the time someone is ight for you , it wo n't feel like settling And the only person left to judge you will be the twenty four year old girl with a target on your back .
NATALIE: So , what 's the plan for this evening ?
RYAN: No
ALEX: It 's nothing like that .
NATALIE: We are in Miami .
RYAN: We were going to hit that party for the tech conference in the hotel .
NATALIE: I did n't know you could just attend those
ALEX: Well , I mean
NATALIE: You 're going to crash it ?
NATALIE: No , I get it . I 'm in !
ALEX: Jennifer Chu ?
NATALIE: Oh shit !
RYAN: It 's going to be fine .
NATALIE: Oh yeah This was a great idea .
TO ALEX: You are so pretty . You 're exactly what I want to look like in fifteen years .
ALEX: Thank you , Natalie .
CONFERENCE LEADER: How 's everyone doing out there ? !
YOUNG MC: THIS HERE 'S A TALE FOR ALL THE FELLAS TRY TO DO WHAT THOSE LADIES TELL US GET SHOT DOWN
RYAN: Think she 'll be okay ?
ALEX: Look
RYAN: That 's why I do n't have a `` back home '' .
ALEX: I know . You 're so cool . `` Mr . Empty Back Pack '' .
RYAN: You know about the back pack ?
ALEX: I googled you .
RYAN: You did ?
ALEX: It 's what us modern girls do when we have a crush .
RYAN: Did it bother you ?
ALEX: Well , that depends . Is the bag empty because you hate people o just the baggage they bring along ?
RYAN: I do n't hate people . I 'm not exactly a hermit .
ALEX: You just do n't want to be tied down ? The whole responsibility thing .
RYAN: I do n't think it 's even that I First time I ever flew , I was sixteen .
ALEX: You 're not going to answer ? You 're just going to tell me a story ?
RYAN: It was January and I had just gotten my driver 's license . The lakes were frozen over , so we piled into my car and hit the ice to do donuts . When , out of nowhere , I hit a soft spot and the hood of my ca tilted up and I was sinking ackwards into the water .
ALEX: Jesus
RYAN: I literally started to drown . Within a few seconds , I black out . Then , I wake up in the sky . I 'm in a helicopter , laying on a stretcher . This guy in a uniform is telling me I was minutes away from dying .
ALEX: Oh my God .
RYAN: Right ? So just as we 're hovering over the hospital , I sit up . And from there , I could see the whole western horizon . We 'd been flying twenty minutes . Twenty minutes to reach a city I 'd thought of as remote , halfway across the state a foreign capital .
A BEAT: My parents had taught me we lived in the best place on Earth , but now I could see the world was really just one place and comparing did n't make much sense . And I remembe thinking - Do n't tell me this is n't an age of miracles . Do n't tell me we ca n't be everywhere at once .
RYAN: I do n't know what originally sparked the back pack . I probably needed to be alone . Recently , I 've een thinking that maybe I needed to empty the bag before I knew what to put back in .
SOFTWARE DUDE: Hey I think we 're out of gas .
RYAN: Hey , you 're up
ALEX: Got to fly stand-by and make a meeting in Milwaukee .
RYAN: Oh Okay .
ALEX: Oh , no . I made you feel cheap .
RYAN: Yeah , all right Just leave the money on the dresser .
ALEX: I 'll text you later so we can swap schedules .
RYAN: I ca n't remember the last time I enjoyed spending time with someone as much as you .
ALEX: Neither can I .
NATALIE: Last night got a little out of hand . I said things I do n't emember everything I said . I just did n't want you to think
RYAN: Just relax . It was nice to see you cut loose . So , did you wake him up or slip out ?
NATALIE: What ?
RYAN: This morning Your new friend . Did you wake him for an awkward good bye or just slip out so he could feel like a whore .
NATALIE: I just left .
RYAN: Protocol is always tricky .
NATALIE: I did n't know what was right .
RYAN: Sometimes there really is no right thing to do .
NATALIE: What happened to Alex ?
RYAN: Had to skip town early to make a meeting .
NATALIE: That 's too bad . Where does she live ?
RYAN: Chicago .
NATALIE: You thinking of going to see her ?
RYAN: I do n't know . We just do n't have that kind of relationship .
NATALIE: What kind of relationship do you have ?
RYAN: It 's , you know . Casual .
NATALIE: Sounds pretty special .
RYAN: It works for us .
NATALIE: Think there 's any future there ?
RYAN: Never thought about it . What 's going on here ?
NATALIE: Really never thought about it ?
RYAN: No .
NATALIE: How can you not think about these things ? How does it not even cross your mind that you might want to have a future with somebody ?
RYAN: It 's simple , you know that moment when you look into someone 's eyes and you feel them looking right into your soul , and the whole world goes quiet for a second .
NATALIE: Yes .
RYAN: Right . Well , I do n't .
NATALIE: You 're an asshole .
RYAN: Oh come on , I 'm just dicking around . I need your help
NATALIE: Do n't you think it 's worth giving her a chance ?
RYAN: A chance to what ?
NATALIE: A chance at something real ?
RYAN: Natalie , your definition of `` real '' is going to evolve as you get older
NATALIE: Would you stop condescending fo one second ? Or is that one of the principles of your bullshit philosophy ?
RYAN: Bullshit philosophy ?
NATALIE: The isolation ? The traveling ? Is that supposed to be charming ?
RYAN: No , it 's simply a life choice .
NATALIE: It 's a cocoon of self-banishment .
RYAN: Wow . Big words .
NATALIE: Screw you .
RYAN: Well , screw you too .
NATALIE: You 've set up a way of life that asically makes it impossible fo you to make any human connections . Now , somehow , this woman runs the gauntlet of your ridiculous `` life choice '' and comes out the other end with a smile - Just so you can call her casual . Jesus . I need to grow up ? You 're a twelve year old .
RYAN: I do n't have a gauntlet of
CRAIG GREGORY: Welcome to Detroit .
RYAN: What 's going on here ?
CRAIG GREGORY: I 've been getting those great numbers over the last few days . Thought we should nut up and give this a try .
RYAN: We could use a little more time .
CRAIG GREGORY: Got ta leave the nest at some point .
RYAN: This is a real company , Craig . We 're here to do some damage .
CRAIG GREGORY: I know . Good thing we brought ou est . So let 's stop screwing around , alright ?
RYAN: Just give me a minute to prepare and get my things together .
CRAIG GREGORY: I was thinking Natalie takes this one .
RYAN: She 's hardly ready for this .
CRAIG GREGORY: I 've been watching her . She 's great .
RYAN: This is a whole other animal
CRAIG GREGORY: I mean , she created it . Natalie , you not up for it ?
NATALIE: I 'm I 'm game .
CRAIG GREGORY: Atta girl .
RYAN: Just remember , do n't apologize . Do n't tell them how hard this is for you . Today is one of the worst days they will ever have . What we feel does n't even compare .
NATALIE: Got it .
RYAN: Just keep it professional . You 're going to do fine .
NATALIE: Hello , Mr. Samuels . My name is Natalie Keener .
SAMUELS: What 's going on here ?
NATALIE: I wish I was here with better news , however your position here at Deckers is no longer available .
SAMUELS: What are you talking about ?
NATALIE: You 've been let go .
SAMUELS: What , just like that ? I ca n't elieve Who are you ?
NATALIE: My name is Miss Keener . I am here to tell you about your options
SAMUELS: I work here for seventeen years and they send some fourth grader in here to can me ? What the fuck is this ? !
NATALIE: It 's perfectly normal to be upset . However , the sooner you can tell yourself that there are greate opportunities waiting for you
SAMUELS: Greater opportunities ? I 'm fifty- seven-fucking years old !
NATALIE: Anybody who ever built an empire , or changed the world , sat where you are now . And it 's because they sat there that they were able to do it .
MORE: 77 .
AND AGAIN: Thank you for your time .
RYAN: You did good .
NATALIE: No , I 'm alright .
LISTENS: Maybe there is n't a difference , but it 's comforting to know we 're in the next room .
LISTENING: I know you do n't give a shit about my comfort .
LISTENS: We could just use a little more time . That 's all I 'm saying .
NATALIE: Thanks .
RYAN: We 're being pulled off the road .
CLARIFYING: We 're going home .
NATALIE: For good ?
RYAN: That 's what it looks like .
NATALIE: I 'm sorry about what I said about Alex . I was out of line .
RYAN: It 's alright . I understand .
NATALIE: I mean , who am I to be dolling out elationship advice ?
RYAN: It 's fine .
NATALIE: You going to be okay ?
RYAN: What do you mean ?
NATALIE: In Omaha ?
RYAN: Oh , I do n't know .
NATALIE: It 's better than you 'd think .
RYAN: Grabbing another flight Something I need to take care of . I 'll see you in , uh at home .
ALEX: I have to admit , when you asked me to meet you in Vegas I thought we 'd gamble , make out in a heart shaped jacuzzi , maybe see one of those weird French Canadian circus shows .
RYAN: There 'll be plenty of time for all that . One more foot to the left .
ALEX: How do you feel about the wedding ?
RYAN: I 'm fine , I guess . Okay great walk away .
ALEX: They 're a cute couple .
RYAN: Think so ?
ALEX: Yeah , they 'll make cute kids . If they 're lucky , maybe look a little like you .
RYAN: How do you like Wisconsin in February ?
ALEX: Who does n't ?
SWEETLY: 81 .
RYAN: Northern Wisconsin .
CLARIFYING: What are you doing this weekend ?
RYAN: What ? I have n't even
ALEX: I ca n't .
RYAN: Why not ?
ALEX: I could n't .
RYAN: I 'm being serious .
ALEX: You want me to be your date ?
RYAN: Well Yeah .
ALEX: To a wedding Jesus , Ryan . You sister 's wedding ?
RYAN: It 's not like I know her that well .
ALEX: I 'm just not sure if it 's appropriate for me to
RYAN: Look . You know . I 'm not the wedding type . But for the first time in my life I do n't want to be that guy , alone with his drink . I want a dancing partner . I want a plus one . And if you can stomach it , I 'd like it to be you .
ALEX: Okay .
RYAN: Really ?
ALEX: Yeah , I ca n't believe I Yeah , I 'm in . When is it ?
RYAN: I feel like we should kiss o something .
ALEX: Then kiss me .
RYAN: Are you available ?
KARA: Ryan ?
RYAN: Kara
KARA: Well , hello .
ALEX: Hi .
KARA: Ryan has told me nothing about you .
RYAN: Kara , what are you doing at a hotel ?
KARA: Fuck , I was hoping I would n't have to Yeah , uh , Frank and I are trying out a trial separation .
RYAN: You 're not staying at the house ?
KARA: There was an extra room on hold here , so I just took it for the weekend .
RYAN: Oh , okay .
KARA: Yup . So , you guys are dating ?
RYAN: Um
ALEX: It 's not exactly
KARA: Hey , do n't worry about it . We 're all getting a little old to be calling someone girlfriend I emember when mom used to call Jack her boyfriend . It drove me up the wall . Boyfriends are for kids
MOCK ANNOUNCING: And I 'm just a divorcee !
RYAN: So , the rehearsal dinner ?
KARA: Yeah , I 'll see you two there .
RYAN: There 's a packet .
ALEX: What in life is worth doing that does n't have a packet .
RYAN: Um , I love you ?
JULIE: Oh my God , Ryan !
ALEX: The basket was very lovely .
JULIE: Tammy wrapped all of them .
RYAN: Me ? You 're the one getting married .
JULIE: I know , right ? You have n't even seen my ring .
PROUDLY: Jim designed it .
RYAN: I brought those photos you were asking for
JULIE: Oh great ! They go over there .
RYAN: There were quite a few already up there . Almost could n't find room .
JULIE: I know , is n't it great how everyone chipped in ?
RYAN: What gave you the idea to do something so
ALEX: Substantial ?
JULIE: Well , Jim has a lot of our nest egg invested in this real estate venture right now . So when we went over our finances , a honeymoon just did n't seem affordable this second So I thought Hey , just ecause we ca n't travel does n't mean we ca n't have pictures .
ALEX: It was a great idea .
JULIE: Thanks .
JIM: It 's sixty acres up against the foothills . I subdivided the old Lazy W Ranch and took a nice slice for myself .
RYAN: Sounds nice .
JIM: Homes will go in the high fours .
RYAN: Must be a nice development .
JIM: It 's a community , not a development . The concept is turn-key everything . You buy a maintenance contract with the home . We 'll whack your weeds , we 'll even change the light bulb . Furniture ? You buy your own or choose a package . Seamless traditionalism , yet all the perks .
RYAN: Nice .
JIM: We all need a place to call ou own . This is America . This is what we were promised .
RYAN: That 's a nice touch .
JIM: What ?
RYAN: That bit at the end about promise I like it .
JIM: Thanks .
LEADING: So , you still renting that one- edroom ?
RYAN: I gave it up .
JIM: You own now ?
RYAN: No .
JIM: But you 're looking ?
RYAN: Not really . No .
TAMMY: Can you believe it 's tomorrow ? ! How are you going to sleep ?
JULIE: I do n't know !
TAMMY: You want some Xanax ?
RYAN: I do n't think that 's for sleeping .
JULIE: No , I 'm good . I 'll have some warm milk . That should do the trick .
JIM: One more box
ALEX: I 'll get it .
RYAN: You sure ?
ALEX: Yeah , yeah
RYAN: Jim seems like a good guy .
JULIE: Yeah , I know Is n't he great ?
KARA: He 's going to make a great husband .
RYAN: Hey , Julie , I was thinking with dad not being Well , I did n't know if you had someone to walk you down the aisle
JULIE: Oh , yeah , Jim 's uncle is going to do it .
KARA: He 's been really supportive .
RYAN: Oh Oh , great . Just wanted to make sure you were covered . So I should get there at
JULIE: Guests are arriving around 5ish . Things get going at 530 . So you know , around then . It 's easy . Just come down the elevator .
RYAN: Hey Kara ?
KARA: Yeah .
RYAN: Can you believe she 's getting married already ? She 's just a kid .
KARA: No Ryan . Actually , she 's 37 years old . She 's barely squeaking by .
RYAN: Oh .
KARA: Yup . Sleep tight .
ALEX: That 's all you got ?
RYAN: Are we really doing this ?
ALEX: Give me a boost .
RYAN: I took geography in here .
ALEX: You ever fool around with one of your teachers ?
RYAN: No . You ?
ALEX: Not until college . Come on , show me around .
RYAN: Point guard . Do n't act so surprised .
ALEX: I did n't know you were such a jock .
RYAN: My first fight .
ALEX: How 'd it go ?
RYAN: Got my ass kicked .
ALEX: Very romantic .
RYAN: Go Cougars !
KARA: Ryan , where are you ? We 're having a meltdown here .
RYAN: What 's wrong ? What happened ?
KARA: It 's Jim . Can you get back here ? We need your help .
RYAN: Yeah , of course
ALEX: I 'll grab your suit .
ADDING: Good luck .
RYAN: What happened ?
KARA: Jim 's got cold feet .
RYAN: Today ?
KARA: That 's how cold feet work .
RYAN: What do you want me to do ?
KARA: Talk to him .
RYAN: You want me to talk to him ?
KARA: Hey , it 's either you or me . You know my ecord . I 've already struck out once .
RYAN: I have n't been to bat . I have n't een in the dugout .
KARA: Do n't you talk for a living ? Motivational type stuff ?
RYAN: I tell people how to avoid commitment .
KARA: What kind of fucked up message is that ?
RYAN: It 's a philosophy .
KARA: It 's stupid .
RYAN: Hey , it might have helped you .
KARA: Come on , Ryan . You have n't been around much . Fuck , you basically do n't exist to us . I know you want to be there for her Well here it is . This is your chance .
JIM: Ryan ?
RYAN: Oh , hey Jim .
JIM: You ever read this ?
RYAN: Yeah , it 's pretty powerful stuff .
JIM: I 'll say .
RYAN: Kara mentioned you were having some thoughts ?
JIM: I do n't think I can do this .
RYAN: Okay . What makes you say that today ?
JIM: I was just laying there last night in bed and I could n't sleep . I was thinking about the wedding and the ceremony and all . Us buying a house and moving in together . Having a kid Having another kid Thanksgiving , Christmas , spring eak , football games , all of a sudden they 're out of school , getting jobs , getting married , And then , you know I 'm a grandparent . I 'm retired . Before you know it - I 'm dead and I just kept thinking `` What 's the point ? ''
RYAN: The point ?
JIM: Yeah , I mean , what am I starting here ?
RYAN: It 's marriage it 's the most eautiful thing on Earth you know , what everyone aspires to
JIM: You never got married .
RYAN: That 's true
JIM: You never even tried .
RYAN: Well , it 's hard to define `` try '' .
JIM: You seem happier than most of my married friends .
RYAN: Jim , I 'm not going to lie . Marriage can be a pain in the ass . And you 're kind of right - All of this is just stuff on the way to you eventual demise .
A BEAT: There is n't a `` point '' .
JIM: No I guess not .
RYAN: I do n't want to sound like a Hallmark card , but Life ? It 's etter with company .
JIM: Yeah , Julie went back to the apartment and I was all alone in that big honeymoon suite
RYAN: Kind of lonely ?
JIM: Yeah .
RYAN: Hey . Everybody needs a copilot .
JIM: That 's a nice touch .
RYAN: Thanks .
JIM: What 's the mood like out there ?
RYAN: It 's not good Emotional .
JIM: What should I do ?
RYAN: Go get her .
JIM: I 'm sorry I 'm such a fuck up Will you be my co-pilot ?
KARA: Welcome home .
RYAN: Hi , I 'm Ryan .
WEDDING GUEST: I 'm your cousin Harold .
RYAN: Oh , hey !
ALEX: When am I going to see you ?
RYAN: You 're just going to have to come and visit .
ALEX: So settled down . You 're not going to change on me
RYAN: Same guy . Just one address .
ALEX: Call me if you get lonely .
RYAN: I 'm lonely .
NATALIE: Some guy sits down in a conference room somewhere and a server routes their session to one of our termination engineers .
RYAN: You do n't actually call them that .
NATALIE: I prefer `` terminators '' , but it umped with legal .
RYAN: Really ? I ca n't imagine why .
NATALIE: They follow a workflow that can take them through anything from a standard dismissal to a violent aggressor .
RYAN: Are they actually on line , right now ?
NATALIE: No , they 're beta-testing . Role-playing . We go live at the end of the month . Kyle , you 're running through the events too quickly . You have to give them time to acknowledge each statement . Okay ? It 's a legal thing .
RYAN: This is ridiculous .
GOALQUEST HOST: You ready to rock ?
RYAN: Last year , I flew three hundred fifty thousand miles . The moon is only two fifty .
GOALQUEST HOST: What the fuck are you doing ?
TO CROWD: Okay , everyone just relax . We 'll have your next guest out in a sec .
RYAN: Surprise .
ALMOST INAUDIBLE: What are you doing here ?
ALEX'S HUSBAND: Who was that ?
ALEX: just some guy who was lost .
RYAN: How could you lie to me ?
ALEX: What were you thinking - Just showing up at my door like that ?
RYAN: What do you mean ? I wanted to see you . I did n't know you had a family - Why did n't you tell me that ?
ALEX: Come on , I thought we signed up fo the same thing .
RYAN: Try to help me understand . What is it you signed up for ?
ALEX: I thought our relationship was perfectly clear . You 're
MORE: 105 .
RYAN: I 'm an escape ?
ALEX: You know , a break from our normal lives A parenthesis .
RYAN: I 'm a parenthesis ?
ALEX: Seriously , Ryan ? I ca n't believe we 're having this conversation . I mean what do you want ?
RYAN: I thought I was a part of your real life .
ALEX: Look , Ryan . I 'm a grown up . I do n't hold a grudge . When you 're ready to e an adult and see me again , just give me a call .
RYAN: Yeah , right , you got me in 2C ?
PURSER: Ladies and gentlemen , we have a special announcement to make .
RYAN: Oh no
MAYNARD FINCH: That seat taken ?
REMEMBERS: Oh right , here you go .
RYAN: You know how many times I 've thought about this moment ? Played out the conversation I 'd have with you right here .
MAYNARD FINCH: Really ? What did you want to say ?
RYAN: You know , I I ca n't remember .
MAYNARD FINCH: That 's alright . Happens to all of us . So , where you from ?
RYAN: I 'm from here .
AIRLINE OPERATOR: Hello , Mr. Bingham .
RYAN: Oh , how did you know it was me ?
AIRLINE OPERATOR: This is your dedicated line . We eserve them for our most loyal and dedicated fliers .
RYAN: Oh . I 'd like to transfer some of my miles . Can you open up an account under Jim and Julie Miller ?
AIRLINE OPERATOR: Certainly . How many miles would you like to transfer ?
RYAN: How many miles would it take to circle the globe ?
AIRPORT OPERATOR: We have our `` around-the-world '' tickets . They 're five hundred thousand miles each .
RYAN: Sounds perfect .
CRAIG GREGORY: Got a second ?
RYAN: I 'm going to have to call you right back .
CRAIG GREGORY: What happened to you yesterday ? I was trying to reach you all day .
RYAN: I got tied up in personal stuff . What 's going on ?
CRAIG GREGORY: Do you remember Karen Barnes ?
RYAN: No , I fire dozens of people a day .
CRAIG GREGORY: She killed herself . Jumped off a bridge .
RYAN: Fuck .
CRAIG GREGORY: Yeah .
FORMALITY: Do you remember anyone giving you any signals of anything ? Depression ?
RYAN: They 're all depressed . We 're firing them .
CRAIG GREGORY: Hey , look , you know I have to ask .
RYAN: No , I do n't remember anything . Of course they 're upset . You neve think that
CRAIG GREGORY: Was n't any woman who gave you any indication ? Anything ?
RYAN: No , nothing that stands out .
A THOUGHT: Is Natalie alright ? Is she coming in ?
CRAIG GREGORY: Natalie quit .
RYAN: Just like that ?
CRAIG GREGORY: Text message .
RYAN: She say where she was going ?
CRAIG GREGORY: Nah . She was pretty upset .
RYAN: I should give her a call .
CRAIG GREGORY: I need you back in the air .
RYAN: I 'm fine . What about video conferencing ?
CRAIG GREGORY: CTC is pausing on the whole new media front for a moment . Giving it a little more thought . Getting our work horses ack out doing what they do best .
RYAN: How long are you sending me out ?
CRAIG GREGORY: We 're going to let you sail and sail . Send us a postcard if you ever get there .
MANAGER: So , what happened ?
NATALIE: How exactly do you mean ?
MANAGER: You graduated top of your class . You seemed to have your pick of employment Including right here . Instead , you went to Omaha to fire people for a living .
NATALIE: It 's challenging work .
MANAGER: I ca n't imagine doing that day-in- day-out . Not in this climate .
NATALIE: I followed a boy .
MANAGER: Everybody does at one point o another .
KEATON: I 'd have to say my spine was broken , Keyser . He spits the name out like it was poison .
HOCKNEY: Can I help you ? Hockney 's voice is gruff .
MAN: Todd Hockney '
HOCKNEY: Who are you ?
MAN: Police .
HOCKNEY: We do n't do gun repair .
EDIE: Let me look at you .
KEATON: I 'm having a stroke .
EDIE: You 've come far . You 're a good man . I love you .
FORTIER: Edie , nice to see you .
EDIE: Sorry we 're late .
FORTIER: Nonsense . Sit , please .
RENAULT: You must be Mr. Keaton .
EDIE: I 'm sorry . Dean Keaton Renault 's hand is already out .
RENAULT: Monsieur Renault . A pleasure .
KEATON: How do you do ?
FORTIER: Monsieur Fortier . So nice to finally meet you .
KEATON: Skeptical .
RENAULT: We find the concept brilliant , but New York is difficult for new restaurants . How can we be certain that our money will e returned in the long run ? Keaton looks at Edie and smiles confidently .
KEATON: It 's simple gentlemen , design versatility . A restaurant that can change with taste without losing the overall aesthetic . Our atmosphere wo n't be painted on the walls .
FORTIER: This was the part of the proposal that intrigued us , but I 'm not sure I follow .
KEATON: Let 's say for example -
KUJAN: Time for another one .
KEATON: This is my attorney , Edie Finneran .
KUJAN: Special Agent Kujan . U.S. Customs . These gentlemen are with the New York police department . You look great , Keaton . Better than I would have thought .
RENAULT: Is there a problem , Mr. Keaton ?
KUJAN: The small matter of a stolen truck-load of guns that wound up on a boat to Ireland last night .
FORTIER: Mr. Keaton ?
KEATON: If you will excuse us for a moment , gentlemen .
KUJAN: We need to ask you some questions downtown . You 'll be quite awhile . Renault starts to get up .
RENAULT: We should leave you to discuss whateve this is .
KEATON: Please . Sit .
HOCKNEY: Hand-me-the-keys , you-fucking-cock- sucker .
MCMANUS: This has to be embarrassing for you guys , huh ? I mean you know and I know this is a load of shit , but at least I do n't have a captain with his dick in my ass making me play along . That has got to suck ,
FENSTER: I want to call my lawyer . I don ; 't know about any truck . I was in Connecticut all night on Friday .
HOCKNEY: - my lawyer . I 'll have your badge , cocksucker .
KEATON: with what ?
FENSTER: Somebody should do something . What is this shit - getting hauled in every five minutes ? Okay , so I did a little time , does that mean I get railed every time a truck finds its way off the planet ?
HOCKNEY: These guys got no probable cause .
FENSTER: You 're fuckin ' A right , no P.C . Well screw P.C . No right . No goddamn right . You do some time , they never let you go . Treat me like a criminal , I 'll end up a criminal .
HOCKNEY: You are a criminal .
FENSTER: Why you got ta go and do that ? I 'm trying to make a point .
KEATON: Then make it . Christ , you 're making me tired all over . McManus looks at Keaton . McMANUS I heard you were dead , Keaton .
HOCKNEY: The word I got is you hung up your spurs , man . What 's that all about ? McMANUS What 's this ?
FENSTER: I 'd say you 've gotten on his main and central nerve , McManus .
KEATON: Do your friend a favor , Fenster , keep him quiet . McMANUS You 're clean , Keaton ? Say it ai n't so . Was it you that hit that truck ?
FENSTER: Forget him . It 's not important . I was trying to make a point .
KEATON: This whole thing was a shakedown . McMANUS What makes you say that ?
FENSTER: So why the hell was I hauled in and cavity searched tonight ?
KEATON: It was the Feds . A truck load of guns gets snagged , Customs comes down on N.Y.P.D . for some answers - they come up with us . They 're grabbing at straws . It 's politics - nothing you can do .
FENSTER: I had a guy 's fingers in my asshole tonight .
HOCKNEY: Is it Friday already ?
FENSTER: Fuck you . I'11 never shit right again . So who did it ? Own up .
KEATON: I do n't want to know . McMANUS Nobody asked you , workin'-man .
HOCKNEY: Fuck who did it . What I want to know is , who 's the gimp ?
KEATON: He 's alright .
HOCKNEY: How do I know that ? How about it , pretzel-man ? What 's your story ?
KEATON: His name is Verbal Kint . I thought you guys knew him . McMANUS Verbal ?
VERBAL: Roger really . People say I talk too much .
HOCKNEY: Yeah , I was gon na tell you to shut up .
KEATON: We 've met once or twice . Last time was in
VERBAL: County . I was in for fraud .
KEATON: You were waiting for a line-up then , too . What happened with that ?
VERBAL: I walked . Ninety days , suspended .
HOCKNEY: So you did it ?
VERBAL: To your mother 's ass .
KEATON: Let it go . Verbal smiles at Keaton appreciatively .
HOCKNEY: What do you care what he says ? McMANUS Yeah , I 'm just talking here , and Hockney seems to want to hear me out . I know Fenster is with me - How about you , guy ? McManus finishes pissing .
VERBAL: I 'm interested , sure . McMANUS There , so you see , I 'm going to exercise my right to free assembly .
KEATON: I 'm not kidding . Shut your mouth .
COP: Who are you ?
BAER: Agent Jack Baer , F.B.I . How many dead ?
COP: Fifteen so far . We 're still pulling some odies out of the water .
BAER: f do n't want any of the bodies taken away until I 've had a chance to go over this , understood ?
COP: I have to clear the scene . I 've got word direct from the Chief Baer lights a cigarette , only half listening .
BAER: Yes , the chief . Spooky stuff . Any survivors ?
COP: Two . There 's a guy in county hospital , ut he 's in a coma . The D.A . has the other guy - A cripple - from New York I think . Listen , the Chief said -
BAER: Excuse me .
VOICE #1: No provisions , nothing . My clients testimony for his immunity .
VOICE #2: May-I be frank , Counselor ? I suspect you political power as much as I respect it . I do n't know why Mr. Kint has so many faceless allies in City Hall , and I do n't care . The embarrassment he helped cause the city of New York will not happen here .
VOICE #1: Immunity .
VOICE #2: Counselor , I will prosecute your client .
VOICE #1: Then prosecute . I will be very impressed to see if the District Attorney manages to bring in twenty-seven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy . I would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged & quot ; faceless people in City Hall & quot ; you mention .
VOICE #2: I'11 take my chances then . I'11 feel safer without a job if a man like Mr. Kint is behind bars .
VOICE #1: Mr. Kint will plead guilty to weapons possession .
VOICE #2: You 're joking .
VOICE #1: Weapons . Misdemeanor one .
VOICE #2: Counselor , you 're insulting me .
VOICE #1: Counselor , you 're bluffing . Shall I push for misdemeanor two ?
KUJAN: What do you mean I ca n't see him ?
RAB IN: The D.A . came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county . Kint 's lawyer comes in and five minutes later , the D.A . comes out looking like he 'd been bitch-slapped by the oogey man . They took his statement and cut him a deal .
KUJAN: Did they charge him with anything ?
RAB IN: Weapons . Misdemeanor two .
KUJAN: What'the fuck is that ?
RABIN: I give the D.A . credit for getting that much to stick . This whole thing has turned political . The Mayor was here - the chief - the Governor called this morning , for Christ 's sake . This guy is
KUJAN: When does he post bail ?
RAB IN: Two hours , tops .
KUJAN: I want to see him .
RAB IN: He wo n't go into the interrogation room .
KUJAN: Someplace else , then .
RAB IN: Where ? Kujan looks around Rabin 's messy office .
KUJAN: If it was a dope deal , where 's the dope , if it was a hit , who called it in ?
KUJAN: You know damn well what I think .
RABIN: That 's crazy , Dave and it does n't matter . He has total immunity and his story checks out . He does n't know what you want to know .
KUJAN: I do n't think he does . Not exactly , but there 's a lot more to his story . I want to know why twenty-seven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninety-one million dollars worth of dope that was n't there . Above all , I want to be sure that Dean Keaton is dead .
RAB ZN: He 's dead .
KUJAN: Two hours . Just until he makes bail .
PLUMBER: Ridgly , this is Special Agent Jack Bae from the F.B.I . Agent Baer , this is Doctor Ridgly Waiters .
RIDGLY: Nice to meet you .
BAER: Is he talking ?
RIDGLY: He regained consciousness less than an hour ago . He spoke - not English - then he lapsed .
BAER: Hungarian ?
RIDGLY: I do n't
BAER: It was Hungarian . Most of them were Hungarians . Any fluent Hungarians on you staff ?
RIDGLY: We have a Turkish audiologist . Ridgly opens a door and Baer barrels through .
BAER: will he die ?
PLUMBER: There 's a chance .
KOVASH: & lt ; & lt ; Find someone who understands me , you idiot , I 'm going to be killed , You 'll all be killed if he has to do it . Help me , God . They 're all stupid . Get someone who understands me o we 're all going to die. & gt ; & gt ;
BAER: Call hospital security and put a man on the door until the police get here .
KOVASH: & lt ; & lt ; Why are you just standing there , you idiot ? I 'm not speaking English am I ? Would n't it make sense to find someone who could talk to me so you could find the person that set me on fire , perhaps ? He is the Devil . You 've never seen anyone like Keyse Soze in all your miserable life you idiot . Keyser Soze . Do you at least understand that ? Keyser Soze . The Devil himself . Or are you American policemen io stupid that you have n't even heard of him . Keyser Soze , you idiculous man . KEYSER SOZE . & gt ; & gt ;
PLUMBER: Is he dangerous ?
BAER: Yes .
KOVASH: Keyser - Soze .
BAER: What ?
KOVASH: Keyser - Soze .
BAER: No shit ? Joel , call Dan Metzheiser over at Justice and find Dave Kujan from Customs .
KUJAN: Verbal , you know we 're trying to help you .
VERBAL: Sure . And I appreciate that . And I want to help you , Agent Kujan . I like cops . I would have liked to have been a Fed myself but my C.P . was -
KUJAN: Verbal , I know you know something . I know you 're not telling us everything .
VERBAL: I told the D.A . everything I know .
KUJAN: Keaton was a piece of shit .
VERBAL: You trying to get a rise out of me , Agent Kujan ?
KUJAN: I just want to hear your story .
VERBAL: It 's right here .
KUJAN: According to your statement you are a short-con operator . Run of the mill seams . Everything you do , you learned from somebody else .
VERBAL: That 's been suppressed . Anything in there is inadmissible .
KUJAN: Oh , I know . Sweet deal you have . Total immunity .
VERBAL: Well I do have the weapons charge . I 'm looking at six whole months hard time .
KUJAN: You know a dealer named Ruby Deemer , Verbal ?
VERBAL: You know a religious guy named John Paul ?
KUJAN: You know Ruby is in Attica ?
VERBAL: He did n't have my lawyer .
KUJAN: I know Ruby . He 's very big on respect . Likes me very much .
VERBAL: There 's nothing in there about Ruby .
KUJAN: I'11 be sure to mention that to him .
VERBAL: No .
KUJAN: I'11 get right to the point . I 'm smarte than you . I'11 find out what I want to know and I'11 get it from you whether you like it or not .
VERBAL: I 'm not a rat .
RAB IN: Can we get started again ?
KUJAN: Now what happened after the line-up ?
EDIE: and the desk Sergeant is actually trying to tell me he ca n't release you ? Can you believe that ? You were n't even charged . New York police - Jesus . I want to take pictures of your face to bring to the D.A . first thing in the morning .
KEATON: Just forget about it .
EDIE: Absolutely not .
KEATON: Edie , please . I do n't want to hear this ight now . What did Renault and Fortie say ?
EDIE: They want more time to think about investing .
KEATON: Goddamnit .
EDIE: They just said they wanted time .
KEATON: Time for what , Edie ? Time to look into me a little more , that 's what . No matter how well you cover my tracks now , they 'll find out who I am .
EDIE: Give me some credit . I got you this far , let 's go to the grand jury . This is neve going to stop if we -
KEATON: No . It 's never going to stop , period . It wo n't take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us . It 's finished . I 'm finished .
EDIE: Do n't give up on me now , Dean .
KEATON: They 'll never stop .
EDIE: I love you .
KEATON: They ruined me tonight .
EDIE: Dean , I love you . Do you hear me ?
KEATON: Huh ?
EDIE: Come home with me , please . Dean ?
KEATON: Alright .
VERBAL: I just asked one of the detectives downtown . He seemed pretty happy to tell me .
EDIE: Dean , who was at the
VERBAL: How do you do ?
KEATON: Verb - Roger , this is Edie Finneran . Edie , this is Roger Kint , he was at
EDIE: I know who he is .
VERBAL: I hope I did n't disturb you .
EDIE: I hope so , too , Mr. Kint . Can I get you something to drink ?
VERBAL: A glass of water would be nice .
KEATON: What the hell do you want ?
VERBAL: I wanted to talk to you . The other guys -
KEATON: I did you a favor by standing up for you last night , but do n't think we 're friends . I 'm sorry , but I have othe things -
VERBAL: They 're gon na do a job . Three million dollars , maybe more .
EDIE: So what is it you do , Mr. Kint ?
VERBAL: Umm
EDIE: A hijacker like Dean , here ? Or something more creative ?
KEATON: That 's enough , Edie .
EDIE: I do n't know what you came here for , but we wo n't have any part of it .
KEATON: Edie , please .
EDIE: I 've spent the last year of my life putting his back together again - I wo n't have you come in here and - What makes you think - GET OUT . GET OUT OF m HOME .
KEATON: Get out .
VERBAL: If you 'll just let me -
KEATON: Hurt you , you sonofabitch ? I could kill you . Keaton starts to shove Verbal out the door .
VERBAL: They 're going to hit the Taxi Service . Keaton freezes . LONG PAUSE .
KEATON: They - That 's bullshit . They do n't operate anymore .
VERBAL: McManus has a friend in the Fourteenth Precinct . They 're coming out for one jo - Thursday . They 're picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of South America . Fenster and McManus have a fence set to take the stuff .
KEATON: What fence ? Who ?
VERBAL: Some guy in California . His name is Redfoot .
KEATON: Never heard of him .
VERBAL: You have to come .
KEATON: What 's with you ? What do you care whethe I come or not ?
VERBAL: They - They do n't know me . You do . They wo n't take me unless you go . Look at me . I need this .
KEATON: Tough break .
VERBAL: Do n't tell me you do n't need this . Is this your place ? Keaton is unable to answer .
KEATON: You watch your mouth .
VERBAL: Okay , okay . You say it 's the real thing ? That 's cool .
KEATON: I apologize .
VERBAL: I was out of line .
KEATON: You okay ?
VERBAL: I'11 be alright .
KEATON: Well , I 'm sorry .
VERBAL: Forget it . I'11 probably shit blood tonight .
KEATON: How are they going to do it ?
VERBAL: McManus wants to go in shooting . I said no way .
KEATON: Fenster and Hockney ?
VERBAL: They 're pretty pissed off . They 'll do anything . Now I got a way to do it without killing anyone ut like I said , they wo n't let me in without you .
KEATON: Three million ?
VERBAL: Maybe more .
KEATON: No killing ?
VERBAL: Not if we do it my way .
KEATON: I swore I 'd live above myself . Verbal smiles , knowing he has him .
RIZZI: How was the flight ? Oscar hands Rizzi a thick envelope .
OSCAR: Will that get me to the Pierre ?
RIZZI: That 'll get you to Cape God .
STRAUSZ: What the
RIZZI: LOOK OUT .
STRAUSZ: Give it up .
HOCKNEY: We db now , Jerk-off .
VERBAL: In California ? McMANUS Yeah . It 'll take a few days . Me and Fenste
HOCKNEY: Hold the fuckin ' phone . You and Fenster ? No , no , no . McMANUS Guys , come on .
FENSTER: Then who goes ?
HOCKNEY: We all go . How about it , Keaton ?
KEATON: We need to lay low for a while .
VERBAL: We 're going to miss the flight .
KEATON: We 'll make it .
VERBAL: Do n't do this . Send her a card - something .
KEATON: We 'll make it .
VERBAL: We 're gon na miss the plane . She 'll understand .
KUJAN: Heartwarming . Really , I feel weepy .
VERBAL: You wanted to know what happened afte the line-up , I 'm telling you .
KUJAN: Oh come on , Verbal . Who do you think you 're talking to ? You really expect me to believe he retired ? For a woman ? Bullshit . He was using her .
VERBAL: He loved her .
KUJAN: Sure . And I 'm supposed to believe that hitting the Taxi Service was n't his idea either .
VERBAL: That was all Fenster and McManus .
KUJAN: Come on . Keaton was a cop for four years . Who else would know the Taxi Service
KUJAN: Let me tell you something . I know Dean Keaton . I 've been investigating him fo
VERBAL: You got him wrong .
VERBAL: I do n't know about that .
KUJAN: I do n't think you do . But you say you saw Keaton die . I think you 're covering his ass and he 's still out there somewhere . I think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor . My bet is he 's using you ecause you 're stupid and you think he 's your friend . You tell me he 's dead , so be it . I want to make sure he 's dead before I go back to New York .
VERBAL: He was n't behind anything . It was the lawyer .
KUJAN: What lawyer ?
VERBAL: Back when I was in that barber shop quartet in Skokie , Illinois I used to have
KUJAN: You think I do n't know you held out on the D.A. ? What did you leave out of that testimony ? I can be on the phone to Ruby Deemer in ten minutes .
VERBAL: The D.A . gave me immunity .
VERBAL: There was a lawyer . Kobayashi .
KUJAN: Is he the one that killed Keaton ?
VERBAL: No . But I 'm sure Keaton 's dead .
KUJAN: Convince me . Tell me every last detail .
BAER: Are you the translator ?
BODI: Patrolman Lionel Bodi , sir .
PLUMBER: Agent Beer , this is getting out of hand .
BAER: I'11 see to it we 're gone before he blows his porch light , Doctor . Baer gestures to Tracy .
BODI: Hi .
TRACY: Hi .
METZHEISER: I 've got a noon meeting , Baer .
PLUMBER: Agent Baer , please .
BAER: Everyone calm down . Ask this man about the shoot-out in the harbor .
BODI: & lt ; & lt ; My name is Bodi . How are you ' & gt ; & gt ;
KOVASH: & lt ; & lt ; How am 17 You are as stupid as that one , but at least I can talk to you. & gt ; & gt ;
BODI: & lt ; & lt ; You 'll be alright . He is from the F.B.I . He is here to help you . He wants to know what happened in the harbor. & gt ; & gt ;
BODI: He says they were buying It does n't make sense . I 'm sorry , I 'm a little usty . They were there to buy something .
BAER: Dope , we know .
KOVASH +: & lt ; & lt ; You do n't understand me either ? God
BODI: Not dope . Something else . Some what ? .. He does n't knob what they were buying . But not dope people .
METZHEISER: Your witness is whacked , Baer .
BODI: He says he 'll tell us everything he knows if we protect him .
.BAER: Tell him fine .
BODI: & lt ; & lt ; He says that is fine. & gt ; & gt ;
BODI: No good . He needs guarantees . He says his life is in danger He has seen the Devil looked him in the eye .
METZHEISER: I'11 be on my way . Baer grabs Metzheiser by the arm .
BAER: Tell him to tell this man what he was telling me before . Who is the Devil ? Who did he see ?
BODI: & lt ; & lt ; Who is this Devil you keep talking about ? & gt ; & gt ;
KOVASH: Keyser Soze He was in the harbo shooting everyone in sight. & gt ; & gt ; Metzheiser is suddenly interested .
BODI: He says he saw him in the harbor . He was shooting Killing Killing many men .
METZHEISER: Did he say Keyser Soze ? He saw Keyse Soze
BODI: He says he saw him in the harbor . He was shooting Killing Killing many men .
METZHEISER: Did he say Keyser Soze ? He saw Keyse Soze .
BODI: He says he knows his face . He sees it when he closes his eyes .
METZHEISER: Ask him what this Devil looks like .
BAER: Ready ? Tracy holds up her pad and pencil . She nods .
REDFOOT: How 've you been ? McMANUS Good . You ?
FENSTER: Getting by .
REDFOOT: You got it ? McManus holds up a briefcase .
KEATON: Snazzy dresser this guy .
REDFOOT: You must be Keaton . McMANUS Jesus , I 'm sorry . Redfoot , this is Dean Keaton , that 's Todd Hockney , and that 's Verbal Kint .
KEATON: We 're on vacation .
REDFOOT: I 've got a ton of work and no good people . McMANUS What 's the job ?
HOCKNEY: Security ?
REDFOOT: Two bodyguards . Pretty good . McMANUS Give us time to check it out ?
KEATON: A friend of mine in New York tells me you knew Spook Hollis .
REDFOOT: I hear you did time with old Spook . Yeah , he was a good egg . I used to run a lot of dope for him . Fuckin ' shame he got shivved .
KEATON: I shivved him .
REDFOOT: Business or personal ?
KEATON: A little of both .
REDFOOT: Ai n't it a crime ? Call if you 're interested .
KEATON: One job , that was the deal . McMANUS Take it as it comes , brother .
VERBAL: What is it Keaton ?
KEATON: Something - I do n't know . I ever tell you about the restaurant I wanted to open ?
HIGHAM: Just get in the car Saul .
HOCKNEY: I get out of the car , and man if the thing was n't wrecked . And I see this oad in the back seat with nothing on .
FENSTER: RIGHT THERE . FREEZE .
KEATON: Give me the case .
HOCKNEY: What the hell ? McManus Bad day . Fuck it .
KEATON: Move .
MCMANUS: You gon na kill him ?
KEATON: I 'm going to deal with him .
REDFOOT: Get a grip . I did n't know .
KEATON: You did n't know .
REDFOOT: The job got thrown to me by this lawyer .
KEATON: Who is he ?
REDFOOT: Some Limey . He 's a middle-man fo somebody . He does n't say and I do n't ask .
KEATON: We want to meet him .
REDFOOT: He wants to meet you . He called last night and asked me to set it up . What do I tell him '
KEATON: Tell him we 'll meet . McMANUS If you 're lying , Redfoot
REDFOOT: McManus , you 're a real bad-ass , but get off my tip . McManus lunges for Redfoot .
KUJAN: So this lawyer
VERBAL: Kobayashi .
KUJAN: Came from Redfoot .
VERBAL: Right .
KUJAN: And why leave this out when you talked to the D.A . ?
RAB IN: Someone to see you , Agent Kujan .
KUJAN: Jack . What are you doing here ?
BAER: I 've been looking all over for you . You still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor ?
KUJAN: Yeah .
BAER: You can stop looking . There was no coke . I 've been in L.A. county with a guy they
KUJAN: There was ninety-one million -
BAER: We know , but our man says no way on the dope . This Hungarian tells me the whole unch was pulling stumps for Turkey the next ' day . They had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it .
KUJAN: What was the money for ?
BAER: He did n't know . No one doing the deal knew except a few key people . This guy says they were real hush about it . Whatever it was it was highly sensitive .
KUJAN: I do n't get it .
BAER: They tell me you got the cripple from New York in there . He mention Keyser Soze
KUJAN: Who ?
BAER: Bear with me here
KUJAN: Who is Keyser Soze
VERBAL: Ahhh fuck .
KEATON: So I need to know if anyone can think of anybody . Somebody with power . Enough to possibly track us from New York . McMANUS Look . We 've been over it for an hour now . I say we pack up and run . Let 's go back to New York . At least get out of L.A .
KOBAYASHI: Mr. Keaton ?
KEATON: What can we do for you ?
KOBAYASHI: My employer requires your services . One job . One day 's work . Very dangerous . I do n't expect all of you to live , but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit .
KEATON: Who 's your boss ?
KOBAYASHI: My employer wishes to remain anonymous .
KEATON: Do n't jerk me off . We all know what this is . You do n't work with me if I work with you without knowing who I 'm working for . Now let 's cut the shit . Who 's the man ?
KOBAYASHI: I work for Keyser Sate .
KEATON: What is this ?
VERBAL: Who 's Keyser Soze ?
KOBAYASHI: I am sure you 've heard a number of tall tales , myths and legends about Mr. Soze I can assure you gentlemen , most of them are true .
VERBAL: Who 's Keyser Soze ?
KOBAYASHI: Judging by the sudden change in mood , I am sure the rest of your associates can tell you , Mr. Kint . I have come with an offer directly from Mr. Soze . An orde actually .
KEATON: An order .
KOBAYASHI: In nineteen-eighty one , Mr. Keaton , you participated in the hijacking of a truck in Buffalo , New York . The cargo was raw steel . Steel that belonged to Mr. Soze and was destined for Pakistan to be used in a Nuclear reactor . A very profitable violation of U.N . Regulations . You had no way of knowing this , because the man shipping the steel was working for Mr .
KEATON: You set up the line-up .
KOBAYASHI: Mr. Soze made a few calls , yes . You were not to be released until I came to see you . It seems Mr. Keaton 's attorney , Ms. Finneran , was a bit too effective in expediting his release . Holding the rest of you became a moot point .
KEATON: What about Redfoot ?
FENSTER: So why tell us ?
KOBAYASHI: Because you have stolen from Mr. Soze . That you did not know you stole from him is the only reason you are still alive , ut he feels you owe him . You will repay your debt .
HOCKNEY: Who is this guy ? How do we know you work for Soze
KOBAYASHI: I do n't think that is relevant , Mr. Hockney . The five of you are responsible for the murder of Saul Berg and his odyguards . Mr. Redfoot can attest to your involvement , and we can see to it that he will . He is not of you & quot ; superior & quot ; breed .
MCMANUS: This is a load of shit .
KOBAYASHI: The offer is this , gentlemen . Mr. Soze 's primary interest , as I am sure you all know , is narcotics . He 's been - competing shall we say , with a group of
KEATON: Give me one good reason why I should n't kill you right now .
KOBAYASHI: A gift from Mr. Soze gentlemen . He turns and walks out of the room .
KEATON: Jesus Christ . Open them .
HOCKNEY: They know everything . McMANUS This is my life in here . Everything I 've done since I was eighteen .
FENSTER: Everybody I ever worked with , did time with .
HOCKNEY: They fucking know everything .
KEATON: This is not right .
FENSTER: I do n't know . Who was that guy that used to talk about Soze in New York ? McMANUS Bricks Marlin .
KEATON: Come on . The guy is a pipe dream . This Kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
FENSTER: I do n't know . This is bad .
HOCKNEY: It 's bullshit . This guy could be L.A.P.D . I think it 's a setup .
FENSTER: The way I hear it , Soze is some kind of utcher . No pity .
KEATON: There ' is no Keyser Soze
VERBAL: Who is Keyser Soze
KUJAN: Do you believe in him , Verbal ?
VERBAL: Keaton always said & quot ; I do n't believe in God , but I 'm afraid of him. & quot ; Well I elieve in God , and the only thing that scares me is Keyser SOZE .
RAB IN: You give this any weight , Agent Baer ?
BAER: I can introduce you to Dan Metzheise from Justice . He has a file on Sate in D.C . It 's been a hobby of his for a few years . A lot of guys equate him to that eporter on the Incredible Hulk .
RABIN: Had you heard of him before ?
BAER: On the street ? A few times . Outside stuff . Somebody was working for a guy who was working for a guy who got money through Keyser Soze . That kind of shit . Could be an old badge . A hex sign to keep people from fucking with you back when a name meant something .
RAB IN: But you 're here .
BAER: Shit yeah . I got a guy trying to walk out of the hospital on d fried drumstick to get away from SOZE . I'11 run it up the flagpole .
VERBAL: I came clean . I told it like it happened on the boat . So what if I left out how I got there ? It 's got so many holes in it , the D.A . would 've told me to blow amnesty out my ass . So you got what you wanted out of me . Big fucking deal .
KUJAN: And this is why you never told the D.A .
VERBAL: You tell me , Agent Kujan . If I told you the Loch Ness Monster hired me to hit the harbor , what would you say ?
KUJAN: Turn state 's evidence . Take the stand on this and we 'll hear it out .
VERBAL: I 've got immunity now . What can you possibly offer me ?
KUJAN: If there is a Keyser Soze he 'll be looking for you .
VERBAL: Where 's your head , Agent Kujan ? Where do you think the pressure 's coming from ? Keyser Soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where I am right now . He 's got the front burner under ' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later . Immunity was just to deal with you assholes . I got a whole new problem when I post bail .
KUJAN: So why play into his hands ? We can protect you .
VERBAL: Gee , thanks , Dave . Bang-up job so far . Extortion , coercion . You 'll pardon me if I ask you to kiss my pucker . The same fuckers that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me They 'll ail me out ? Fuck you . You think you can catch Keyser Soze ? You think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out ? If he comes up for anything , it will be to get rid of me . After that , my guess is you 'll never hea from him again .
KOVASH: & lt ; & lt ; It is longer than that . And not so dark . & gt ; & gt ;
BODI: & lt ; & lt ; Are you sure ? & gt ; & gt ;
KOVASH: & lt ; & lt ; Do n't be stupid. & gt ; & gt ;
BODI: He says the hair is longer and lighter .
VERBAL: That was how I ended up in a barber shop quartet in Skokie , Illinois .
KUJAN: This is totally irrelevant .
VERBAL: Oh , but it 's not . If I had n't been nailed in Illinois for running a three card monte in between sets , I never would have took off for New York . I neve would have met Keaton , see . That barbe shop quartet was the reason fo everything .
KUJAN: Can we just get back to Kobayashi ?
VERBAL: The quartet is part of the bit about Kobayashi . The quartet was in my file , along with every other thing I had done since high school , see ? Aliases , middle- men . They knew me better than I did . They knew all of us . Kujan looks at his watch .
KUJAN: You 're stalling , Verbal .
VERBAL: Give a guy a break , huh ?
KUJAN: What happened ?
VERBAL: We woke up the next morning and Fenste was gone . He could n't handle the idea of slumming for SOZE . He left a note wishing us good luck and took a chunk of the money we 'd scraped together .
KUJAN: Then what ?
VERBAL: McManus was furious . He was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit . That night we got the call .
KUJAN: What call ?
VERBAL: Kobayashi told us where we could find Fenster .
KEATON: What do you want to do with him ?
HOCKNEY: This is nuts . McMANUS Dig .
KEATON: Dig .
VERBAL: What are we gon na do ?
HOCKNEY: I can run . I got no problem with that .
KEATON: They do n't seem to have a problem with it either . McMANUS Nobody runs .
HOCKNEY: This ai n't my boy we 're burying . I do n't owe anybody .
KUJAN: And after they killed Fenster nobody would run ?
VERBAL: I wanted to . I thought we could make it .
KUJAN: Why did n't you say anything ?
VERBAL: I tried , believe me , but Keaton would n't have it . It was too far-fetched for him . Keaton was a grounded guy . An ex-cop . To a cop , the explanation is never that complicated . It 's always simple . There 's
HOCKNEY: He 's coming up .
KEATON: The answer is no .
KOBAYASHI: Mr. Soze will be most -
KEATON: Listen to me , cocksucker . There is no Keyser Sate . If you say his name again , I'11 kill you right here .
KOBAYASHI: A strange threat . I can only assume you 're here to kill me anyway . Pity about Mr. Redfoot . McMANUS Fair trade for Fenster . The elevator opens and Hockney steps out .
KEATON: We know you can get to us , and now you know we can get to you . I 'm offering you the chance to call this off .
KOBAYASHI: Mr. So- My employer has made up his mind . He does not change it .
KEATON: Neither do we . McMANUS You got Fenster , you may get more , but you wo n't get us all . Not before one of us gets to you .
KOBAYASHI: I believe you , Mr. McManus . I quite sincerely do . You would not have been chosen if you were not so capable , but I can not make this decision . Whatever you can threaten me with is ludicrous in comparison to what will be done to me if
KEATON: We 'll see .
KOBAYASHI: Before you do me in , you will let me finish my business with Ms. Finneran first , wo n't you ?
KEATON: What did you say ?
KOBAYASHI: Edie Finneran . She is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition . I equested she be put on the case personally . She flew out yesterday . Everyone looks at Keaton .
KEATON: You 're lying .
KOBAYASHI: Am I ?
KEATON: It 's a logistical nightmare . Close quarters , no advance layout , ten men , maybe twenty .
HOCKNEY: Can we stealth these guys ?
KEATON: Doubtful . With all that coke , they 'll be eady - which brings me to sunny spot number two . Even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat , we get nothing . McMANUS And if we wait for the money ?
HOCKNEY: Me too .
VERBAL: Did you hear what he just said ?
HOCKNEY: If I 'm going in , I want a stake .
VERBAL: I just ca n't believe we 're just gon na walk into certain death .
VERBAL: What-are they speaking ?
KEATON: Russian , I think . I do n't know .
VERBAL: Hungarian ?
KEATON: Knock it off .
HOCKNEY: Are we ready , kids ?
KEATON: Everyone shut up . I 'm ready . McManus , you etter be set up in ten seconds . McMANUS I 'm there .
VERBAL: Keaton , I ca n't just -
KEATON: I want you to find Edie . Both of you find some place safe . Tell her what happened - Everything . She knows people . She 'll know what to do . If we ca n't get Kobayashi my way , she 'll get him her way .
VERBAL: What if I
KEATON: Just do what I tell you .
IT EXPLODES: The men surrounding Keaton , are distracted .
KUJAN: Why did n't you run ?
VERBAL: I froze up . I thought about Fenster and how he looked when we buried him , then I thought about Keaton . It looked like he might pull it off .
BAER: A boy came across a body on the beach this morning . Thrown clear when the boat urned . Shot once in the head . Two guys
KUJAN: And ?
RABIN: His name was Arturo Marquez . A petty smuggler out of Argentina . He was arrested in New York last year fo trafficking . He escaped to California and got picked up in Long Beach . They were setting up his extradition when he escaped again . Get this - Edie Finneran was called in to advise the proceedings .
KUJAN: Kobayashi . Bear nods .
RAB IN: I called New York County and they fared me a copy of Marquez 's testimony . He was a rat .
KUJAN: A big fucking rat .
RABIN +: Arturo was strongly opposed 'to going back to prison . So much so that he informed on close to fifty guys . Guess who he names for a finale ?
KUJAN: Keyser Soze
BAER: There 's more .
KUJAN: I'11 tell you what I know . Stop me when it sounds familiar . Verbal is confused .
KEATON: What happened to you ? McMANUS Keyser Soze is on the boat .
KUJAN: And that 's when you say in your statement that you saw
VERBAL: Wait a minute .
KUJAN: I do n't have a minute . Are you saying it was Keyser Soze ? You told the D.A . you did n't know who it was .
VERBAL: I - there had to be dope there .
KUJAN: Do n't shine me , Verbal . No more stalling . You know what I 'm getting at .
VERBAL: I do n't .
VERBAL: I do n't know what you 're talking about .
VERBAL: I do n't understand what you 're saying . I saw Keaton get shot , I swear to you .
KUJAN: Then why did n't you help him ?
VERBAL: I WAS AFRAID , OKAY ? Somehow , I was sure it was Keyser Soze at that point . I could n't bring myself to raise my gun to him .
KUJAN: But Keaton
VERBAL: It was Keyser Soze , Agent Kujan . I mean the Devil himself . How do you shoot the Devil in the back ?
KUJAN: Arturo Marquez . Ever hear of him ?
VERBAL: Wha- No .
KUJAN: He was a stool pigeon for the Justice Department . He swore out a statement to Federal Marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one Keyser Soze and had intimate knowledge of his usiness , including , but not exclusive to , drug trafficking and murder .
VERBAL: I never heard of him .
KUJAN: His own people were selling him to a gang of Hungarians . Most likely the same Hungarians that Sate all but wiped out ack in Turkey . The money was n't there for dope . The Hungarians were going to uy the one guy that could finger Soze for them .
VERBAL: I said I never heard of him .
KUJAN: But Keaton had . Edie Finneran was his extradition advisor . She knew who he was and what he knew .
VERBAL: I do n't
KUJAN: There were no drugs on that boat . It was a hit . A suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger Keyser Soze so Sate had a few thieves put to it . Men he knew he could march into certain death .
KUJAN: I 'm saying Keaton did .
VERBAL: He wanted me to live .
KUJAN: Why did he want you to live ? A one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless at-cripple ? No , sir . Why '
VERBAL: Edie .
KUJAN: I do n't buy that reform story for a minute . And even if I did , I certainly do n't believe he would send you to protect her . So why ?
VERBAL: Because he was my friend .
KUJAN: No , Verbal . You were n't friends . Keaton did n't have friends . He saved you because he wanted it that way . It was his will .
VERBAL: No
KUJAN: Keaton was Keyser Soze
VERBAL: NO .
KUJAN: The kind of guy who could wrangle the wills of men like Hockney and McManus . The kind of man who could engineer a police line-up from all his years of contacts in N.Y.P.D .
VERBAL: NO , NO , NO , NO , NO .
VERBAL: Edie
KUJAN: He used all of you to get him on that oat . He could n't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man . The one man that could identify him .
VERBAL: This is all bullshit .
KUJAN: He left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead . You saw him die , right ? Or did you ? You had to hide when the first police cars showed up . You heard the shot , just before the fire but you did n't see him die .
VERBAL: I knew him . He would never -
KUJAN: He programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to . Customs has been
KUJAN: Because you 're a cripple , Verbal . Because you 're stupid . Because you were weake than them . Because you could n't see fa enough into him to know the truth .
VERBAL: It was all Keaton . We followed him from the beginning . Kujan smiles with triumphant satisfaction .
KUJAN: Why lie about everything else , then ?
VERBAL: You know what it 's like , Agent Kujan , to know you 'll never be good ? Not good like you . You got good all fucked around . I mean a stand up guy . I grew up knowing I was never going to be good at anything 'cause I was a cripple . Shit , I was n't
KUJAN: You 're not safe on your own .
VERBAL: You think he's.. ?
KUJAN: Is he Keyser Soze I do n't know , Verbal . It seems to me that Keyser Sate is a shield . Like you said , a spook story , but I know Keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you . Stay here and let us protect you .
VERBAL: I 'm not bait . No way . I post today .
KUJAN: You posted twenty minutes ago . Captain Leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p. , unless you turn state 's .
VERBAL: I'11 take my chances , thank you . It 's tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop .
KUJAN: Where are you going to go , Verbal ? You gon na run ? Turn states evidence . You might never see trial . If somebody wants to get you , you know They 'll get you out there .
VERBAL: Maybe so , but I 'm no rat , Agent Kujan . You tricked me , that 's all . I wo n't keep my mouth shut 'cause I 'm scared . I'11 keep it shut 'cause I let Keaton down by getting caught - Edie Finneran too . And if they kill me , it 's
COP: One watch gold . One cigarette lighter gold . One wallet brown . One pack of cigarettes .
RAB IN: You still do n't know shit .
KUJAN: I know what I wanted to know about Keaton .
RAB IN: Which is shit .
KUJAN: No matter . He 'll have to know how close we came .
RAB IN: Keyser Sate or not , if Keaton 's alive he 'll never come up again .
KUJAN: I'11 find him .
RAB IN: Waste of time .
KUJAN: A rumor is not a rumor that does n't die .
RAB IN: What ?
KUJAN: Nothing . Something I - forget it .
RAB IN: Yeah . It 's got it 's own system though . It all makes sense when you look at it ight . You just have to step back from
COP: The Cripple ? He went that way .
